ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e35	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative Jens Marcus died on 29 January, 80 years old, after a period of illness. He died at home and had at his own request a quiet and quiet funeral with only the family present. He was put to rest at the Dypvåg church on Friday February 2nd, 2007. Jens Marcussen was born on 20 May 1926 in Dypvåg in Aust-Agder. He gained an all-round background and became involved in society already in growth. After graduation at Oslo School of Commerce in 1946 and commanding training in Air Force in 1947, he was a farm boy, postman, shop clerk, officeist in London and in Newcastle and officeist at the father's shipping office in Askerøy in 1952-1957, before he himself took over the shipping company in 1958. He married Marta Margarita Christophersen in 1951, called Martita, and they had three children together. Jens Marcussen was elected to Dypvåg Municipal Council in Højre's list in 1952 and was a member of the municipal board of directors of the merger with Tvedestrand in 1960. Then he was a member of the Tvedestrand municipal government until 1975 and in 1980–1981. He was a member of the Tvedestrand Presidency from 1960 to 1974, as rapporteur from 1965 to 1966 and as rapporteur from 1968 to 1971. He was a member of the East-Agder County Council from 1968 to 1971 and 1976 to 1980, the county chairman from 1968 to 1971 and the chairman of the East-Agder County School Board. He had a number of municipal and county offices of trust from 1952 to 1981. He was Chairman of the Dypvåg Right, Chairman of the Tvedestrand Right, Chairman of the East-Agder Right and Member of the Højre Central Government in 1972–1975. Jens Marcusen moved to the Progress Party in 1975/76. He became editor in the newspaper Progress and Group Secretary of the Group of the Progressive Party in 1976. He was elected the first Vice-President of the Advancement Party in 1976, and held elections as President in 1978, but lost this president’s habit, which nevertheless did not prevent us from having good and close cooperation for decades. Jens Marcussen was the rapporteur of the National Government of the Progressive Party from 1979 to 1981. Jens Marcussen was elected to represent Rogaland for the 1981 Progress Party. He fell out of the Storting in the period 1985-1989, but returned as a representative from the Aust-Agder family in the period 1989-1993. Jens Marcussen was a member of the Agriculture Committee in Stortinget during his first period and was head of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee during his second period. He was the first Vice President of the Lamentations since 1989 and out of the period. After leaving the Storting in 1993, he was still busy with politics and social affairs. He was for a number of years a member and Vice-Chairman of the Norwegian Bank's representation and thus on regular visits to the capital, where he also used the opportunity to give good advice and views to the Progress Party and the group's management whom it was very much appreciated. Jens Marcussen was one of the early believers in the Progress Party and became one of the party's chiefs. He also contributed to shed glamour over the party's last national meeting with his presence and greeting speech. In Stortinget Jens Marcussen got good friends and colleagues in all party groups. He wasciable and also set up as a helper for others when they needed it. Jens Marcusus had always been the best of the country's eyes, and fought hard to strengthen Norwegian international shipping, while also reminding the younger generation of learning from the lessons of the last world war in terms of defence and security policy. Jens Marcusus will be missed by many, and especially by those of us who had the joy of cooperating closely with him for many years. We thank Jens Marcussen for his efforts in Norwegian society, remembering his work in Stortinget and shining peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e61	The request for the granted welfare permit of the representative, Trine Skei Grande, is submitted to the Group of the Left for health leave from 15 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Alvhild Hedstein, is called to continue to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e79	The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e82	I would like, on behalf of the big business representatives Gunnar Gundersen, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Ivar Kristiansen, Bent Höie and myself, to propose to remove the obligation to live and regulate the prices of agricultural property.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e87	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e102	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e109	When we look at the media picture, we can easily get the impression that everything is going wrong here in the world. There is a focus on disasters, whether they have caused nature to get wroth – drought, flooding, hurricanes and typhoons – or in wars and conflicts. And unfortunately, it's very negative to focus on. The modus operandi of this image may be missing. Nevertheless, we must be allowed to ask ourselves whether there is only a wrong path or whether there are positive developments. Fortunately, it does. The number of military coups has fallen, the number of armed conflicts in the world is falling, the number of deaths resulting from such conflicts is falling, and in particular the number of refugees has fallen. One of the most positive developments in the last decade is the decline in the number of people living in total poverty. Economic developments in China, India and Brazil have lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty and into a more dignified life. And in Africa, we have a positive economic development. One of the best messages in the last few weeks was the information that negotiations on North Korea's nuclear weapons program seem to be closing. In exchange for energy, North Korea will now end the program. We must also hope that this development will lead to greater openness and integration of North Korea. A very exciting and dangerous situation seems to get a positive outcome. Most positively, this may be for the North Korean inhabitants. Although all crises and conflicts are different, we have to ask ourselves if there is anything to learn from the experience of the negotiations with North Korea. I believe that one of the reasons for closing down was that a good thing was to engage countries in the region, and that there was a possible upside for North Korea, and not just threats about boycott and the possible use of military means. One area where unfortunately there are few positive developments is Iraq. Most of it seems to go wrong. The country is in a civil war-like situation. The number of killed paths, and terrorist attacks have become part of the everyday life. Worst of all, the situation in Iraq could destabilise the whole Middle East. The danger of the conflict spreading is great. As we think, the fight against weapons of mass destruction was the reason for the invasion of Iraq. Such weapons have not been found. Even if Saddam Hussein's fright regime has been removed, there is neither widespread democracy nor the threat of terror. One must be able to claim that the United States has achieved anything other than what they had hoped for when they invaded Iraq. All over the world, resistance to the U.S. warfare is increasing in the country, and not least in the U.S., one sees this rising resistance to war. It would be interesting to know if the Progress Party still supports the invasion and believes that Norway should have taken part in it. We have to think about it as an alternative to invasion. There were international weapons inspectors in the country, and there was a process in the United Nations. The United States and a few other countries trample the world community and the United Nations when they invaded Iraq. After the falloff last fall, Bush put down a selection that would suggest how to get out of the hopeless situation in Iraq. Because the conflict has a regional perspective, one of the smartest advices in the so-called Baker report was that one had to involve the neighbouring countries Syria and Iran. Unfortunately, this Council does not seem to be following the Bush administration. The Iranian regime has so far chosen a extraction technique against the international community for its demand for control of Iran's nuclear weapons. It is crucial that Iran does not develop such weapons. The danger of nuclear upgrading in the region is evident if that happens. I hope, however, that one will take with it the experience that one has gained in the negotiations with North Korea and that one should have learned about the war in Iraq when one is going to work forward to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Private or military action is not the answer. One must engage. One must engage Iran, and one must engage other good forces that can contribute. Last week, there were messages from Mecca that there was going to be a collection government in the Palestinian Territory. This is very positive. It is important to support this work. The conspirators we've seen in the Palestinian territories have been very serious. A hard-hitting people have got worse. Moreover, without peace in the Palestinian territories, stability and security for Israel cannot be achieved. The work of bringing together the Palestinian side is therefore crucial to bringing about a lasting peace solution to the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. I am therefore very pleased with the commitment the Norwegian government has shown to help with such a collection. There must be an end to the boycott of the Palestinian regime. This does not mean, of course, that one should give blank permission to the new government. The negotiations are still in progress. However, it must be important and correct to give a signal that can stimulate this collection process. Personally, I found it very positive that the message of a Palestinian collection came after an Arab initiative. It is important to achieve a regional commitment if peace is to be secured in the area. I want to encourage the world community to re-evaluate the Saudi peace initiative, an initiative such as this. contains a guarantee against Arab attacks on Israel. Tuesday, the government was fully decommissioned by the Storting to send an additional 150 people to the ISAF force in Afghanistan. Norway has responded to a request from NATO to provide assistance in the Kabul area. This is a continuation of senior involvement in the country and in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that a Norwegian participation in ISAF in Afghanistan should be strengthened. The main task of the new Norwegian contribution shall be to assist the Afghan security forces. Together, a defender and maintain stability in the capital. It is important for developments in Afghanistan to be able to secure the President, Government and other important institutions based in the capital. If these institutions are out of play, it will primarily affect the civilian population in the country. Without a functioning state, no development. From before, Norway has assumed responsibility for the Kabul airport, and we have forces in the north. In other words, Norway has for a long time been heavily involved in Afghanistan. In addition to the military contribution, Norway has a great civil commitment. Although it may not be an end in itself, I personally found it positive that Norway spends as much money on civil programs as our military effort costs. Afghanistan and the Afghan people have had a very difficult history of invasions and the one bloody regime followed by the other. The country has been in a permanent war situation for decades. The humanitarian situation is difficult. It is positive that the international community is providing schools, health centres and infrastructure. Without a military presence, it would not be possible to achieve civil development in the country. However, future Afghanistan cannot be secured only by military means. In building civil society and supporting the elected regime, we must hope that Afghanistan will be able to take care of its own security. Therefore, training of Afghan forces is also an important part of the tasks of the Norwegian forces. Many of today's greatest challenges need to be resolved by Norway with Russia. Organic and economic crime is linked to illegal fishing, fisheries resource management, sustainable use of energy reserves and the fight against climate change are just one of the challenges we face. These challenges are particularly present in the north. That is why the Government has put the northern regions at the top of the foreign policy agenda. Both in Russia, and not least in the West, there is criticism of developments in Russia. Many are concerned about democracy in the country. We have seen a centralization of power; we have seen the narrowing of the media's freedom, and there are new rules for voluntary organizations. There have also been threats and commitments on people who are working on democratic issues or who otherwise have been critical of the powers of government. Even our killings seemed politically motivated. Unfortunately, there are things about research that make a person not overestimated that there is a positive development in the country. It is important that we are critical of this development, but at the same time the criticism must not become too one-sided or in black and white. There are also positive developments in the country. We in Norway have everything to gain from Russia becoming an integral part of Europe. The isolation of the country will not be lit. It is therefore important to involve Russia in as many international processes as possible. Russian participation is decisive to solve the greatest challenges of our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e148	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e151	The fact that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, as one of the leading foreign politicians for the government parties, has a greater need to focus on history than on the present, is understandable from the point of view of what is happening today. Today, it appears that the defence management assesses whether at all these 150 soldiers can be sent to Afghanistan, with the restrictions that SV has now signaled, lying there. Does this concern the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee? And what would you do to get out of this mess?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e156	Notida is a result of history. If you're not willing to look at the development lines that are behind us, you're also unable to learn in a way that can affect future developments. I think we have a lot to learn from the examples I used in my article. Then, of course, in a democracy like Norway, it is the politicians who determine the framework for how to use the military forces. That's why it's not like someone from the Defense Department can put aside decisions that a group store behind. That is why it was also quite right that the head of defence recently sent out a press release clarifying this principle, and thus also refuting the information that is now available in the VG. Of course, the Defence and Defence Manager stick to the decisions taken by the politicians in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e163	It is a good conservative position to learn from history – where I agree with the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. But it is also a good conservative position, which I hope the Labour Party share, that we should ensure that the spirit of the NATO Alliance survives, and in my opinion it is not about the Prime Minister yesterday defined it in this Chamber, namely that we should primarily help the North and not help others on the same line when we are actually in a war situation, which we are actually in Afghanistan. I will be allowed to take advantage of the opportunity to have the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee clarify the Workers' Party's position on NATO's ideology and philosophy. Once we're in a war situation, is it that the Labour Party's attitude is to be able to participate and help other forces, whether they be North or Canadian?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e170	I don't think there's any doubt that we're in Norway behind NATO. We've been doing that every year since we became members of NATO, and of course we do now. Of course, there is an emergency situation, our task is to help people regardless of nationality. I am absolutely sure that the Norwegian Prime Minister is in complete agreement as well. So I hope there's no doubt about it. I still think the most important thing about this matter that we are now discussing is that it is really a corollary that is some that we should now send forces to Afghanistan, and I feel there will be a lot of noise when this deal is at the bottom. Then, of course, one can speculate in different types of options, but the most important thing is that there is a collective desire for Norway to contribute further in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e179	I fully agree with the committee's chairman that we should send soldiers out of Norway, it is very important that there is a broad consensus on that. In this case, there is agreement in Stortinget on the decision taken by the Government. What is sad is that there is doubt that these forces can act in line with the guidelines drawn up by the NATO summit in Riga, which is without formal constraints. It's embarrassing when NATO spokesman James Appathurai yesterday said that ‘The Norwegian Government at the NATO summit in Riga in November agreed that Norwegian forces could be relocated anywhere in Afghanistan in a crisis situation. – I am quite sure that the Prime Minister remembers and stands by the promise he made in Riga. I would like to remind you that we are an alliance of 26 countries, and solidarity is an important principle for us." What will the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee say to our NATO allies who find it necessary to make such comments after this debate, which is not created by the opposition but by the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e194	It is very often that when reality is managed through the media and the questioning of journalists, the answer may be slightly different than it would have been in a direct dialogue between Norwegian authorities and NATO. I am aware that it has previously been reported from Norway to NATO that we are working with forces. What we've been asked for is to set up forces in Kabul, and we do. It is also true that a Norwegian side has said that if a situation arises in order to assess the use of these forces in places other than those in Kabul, Norwegian authorities should be contacted. In my view, it is not a violation of what Norway has previously committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e202	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e205	Unfortunately, what is Norwegian foreign policy at any time seems to depend on which compromises the red-green parties negotiate. Predictability is gone, the basic NATO loyalty is gone, and instead we have been given decisions based on more or less good political craftsmanship in the chamber. This is not a good situation. I'm afraid the world doesn't get any easier to deal with, so there's every reason to believe that Norway will also face demanding decisions in the future. Political leadership and clarity are then required based on a basic understanding of Norway’s interests. That understanding seems not to exist between the government parties of today. We think the Workers' Party knows what's at stake. The more important it is to isolate those who do not share the view of the broad majority on Norwegian foreign and security policy. We support the Government's decision to increase our military participation in Afghanistan. It is a good assessment that these forces should have the Kabul region as an operating area, and we understand the decision that this is as far as we can go with military resources in the current year. But these constraints must be guiding and not absolute. NATO must be able to do what they are to do in Afghanistan, and that responsibility must also be taken by Norway. In this way, it is not useful to allow domestic political and party-tactical considerations to govern the possibility of creating stability in Afghanistan. When it appears that the government's compromise has the consequence that our soldiers cannot rescue our allies in a crisis, then we are in a hopeless and tragic situation. Compromise is part of the political everyday life, and in most cases totally unproblematic. However, compromises that have the effect of almost changing the alliance policy are not only problematic but directly harmful both to us and to our allies. Let me take the other area in the presentation where the Progress Party has a different approach than the Government. We are pleased that it seems to be able to remain calm internally in the Palestinian territories, and we await with careful optimism a gathering arrangement. But we are not prepared to signal a changed attitude and policy to this government until we see more explicitly how the new Palestinian government will deal with already well-known international demands. There can be no compromise on these fundamental conditions regarding the elimination of violence and the recognition of Israel. The alternative is that we want to cooperate and ally with the forces we otherwise use in other contexts a lot of resources politically and militarily to fight. We agree with the Government that the northern regions are the most important foreign policy area, and there is little disagreement about the objectives, perhaps not so much about the means to achieve them. Now we are concerned that all the fine words are being translated into reality. The presence is underlined and the role of the Defence and Coast Guard is highlighted. Here we have a major challenge to meet the objectives, namely to give the Defence Force the opportunity to perform the necessary tasks in the north. Unfortunately, the reduction in defence has led to a sharp reduction in territorial defence in the north. Some say, a little bit acutely worded, that it's almost non-existent. It has happened at the same time that there is military upgrading in our neighbourhoods. This has been a short-term Norwegian policy without addressing the long-term challenges of our geopolitical situation. We're going to enjoy the stability we've been experiencing for years, and we're going to do everything we can to keep it going, but we're also going to show the outside world that we're actively enforcing our sovereignty. If we are to be able to get a defense that meets our needs, we must now move from a resource-driven defense to a need-driven defense. As far as Russia is concerned, of course, we should have a broad and deep bilateral relationship. We do not, however, have any new ideas about this relationship. We share the foreign minister's concern over some trends in Russian society, because we need to be clear where we disagree and where we see problems. The Russian challenge is not something we experience alone. Therefore, the bilateral approach may not be optimal in every respect. For example: Sweden wants us to have a partner who has a long experience with Russia and who can complement us in a good way in our meeting with the Russian nation. Let's build alliances with our neighbours based on the idea of common interests and the ability to support each other. It's about security, energy, industry, trade, etc. Norway needs friends. We need allies, and we need support for our vision, not least in the north. We need markets for our fish. We have important companies working for contracts in new markets. There is no lack of important foreign policy work. This was less affected in the presentation and is rarely the subject of debate. A key issue in Norwegian foreign policy should be how we provide support for our positions in the north. Few countries, if any, can be considered close support players in this context. The question becomes whether this is something we should find out about. Should it not be one of the main tasks of the Norwegian Government to safeguard our interests and positions on key issues, related to fishing resources, border issues, Svalbard etc.? I think we're doing a good job explaining our point of view, but in several areas it's shown little. We're all on our own. Norway is a major financial contributor to countries within and outside the EU. Norway has a reputation for being shy. Are we concerned about linking such contributions by asking for support for our vision? We should at least be able to say whether we feel that we are being directly countered by some states, while benefiting from our relatively large contributions. Unfortunately, these are not just hypothetical problems, but something we encounter regularly. From time to time, we act extensively, for example. to our defense. Repurchase agreements are active, with more or less good results. But how good are we to connect other national interests to such questions? In many cases, there is a struggle between states to be allowed to sell to us. Do we benefit from this? For example, do we pray? Americans to open their market to Norwegian salmon when we consider buying American fighter aircraft? These are some simple questions to raise a debate about whether we in Norway are too kind, too red and too little good to care for Norwegian interests. A few years ago, a major international aid operator visited Norway. In one speech, he pointed out how amazing Norway was. He did not know of any other country as generous as Norway, and he never asked for anything in return. It was meant to be a compliment, but it told me that if this is the case, we are more naive and credulous than what is good. This extension is the aid granted by the Norwegian authorities to Norwegian enterprises abroad. In this field, a lot is done, but a more active strategy is needed. In particular, if we are moving outside Western Europe and North America, the support of the authorities is important when Norwegian companies are promoting their interests. How good are we for this? When I see how, for example, Finland works to promote its interests in the former Soviet Union, you can wonder if we sleep an hour. There are now clearly good examples of Norwegian authorities’ support – to a large extent – but we are not present in relation to many of our competitors. Instead, we give political priority to other tasks, perhaps more exciting and interesting ones, but which are less important to Norwegian interests. I experience, for example: Danish, Finnish and German foreign policies are more oriented towards promoting national economic interests. Norwegian foreign policy is widespread and is a geographical and thematic focus that makes some of the basic tasks disappear a little in the background – not because you think it is irrelevant, but because there are so many other tasks to do. It also seems like it's a little bit, let's say, it's not nice to be involved in industrial foreign policy. It may not be the area that creates most media postings or the greatest interest in the UN, but for Norwegian small, medium-sized and large enterprises, it can be absolutely crucial, and it is not useful with occasional shipper roofs. Continuous and systematic bets are required. In this context, we would like to welcome the project called ‘Norway in a Globalised World’. This is good, and it will contribute to an open debate on Norwegian interests and how to set up foreign policy for the future – not least a debate that may clarify Norwegian interests. A priority on which tasks we're going to bet would have been a good tool. We look forward to this debate. The party agreed to propose something similar at the end of the previous ageing period, but was quite clearly rejected. We are therefore very pleased that the time now seems ripe for a broad review of Norway’s external relations. Finally, let me say that in the statement we lacked an emphasis on the importance of close and well transatlantic cooperation. The United States is and will become a close ally that we are seeking to actively engage with our interests. This means that we also need to be responsive to the interests of the United States – not in such a way that we uncritically swallow everything that comes from Washington, but in a way where, as a close ally, we can rely on in demanding situations. I believe that the United States needs a lot of assistance and, in many cases, political wisdom in the international arena. But it's just to realize that we're going to be in a position to correct American politics, we have to be a trusted friend. We are uncertain whether Norway is in such a position today. Finally, we hope that Norway will use every opportunity to help the WTO negotiations get back on track and that we can get a result from the ongoing round of negotiations. Keywords from our side become an emphasis on offensive interests and a downward trend in defensive interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e246	I must say that I feel that the Progress Party is sailing under false flag when they turn to the leading spokesman for the consensus on foreign policy and warn against debate attached to it. We know, of course, that the Progress Party is the party that has been far from the unity of Norwegian foreign policy. This is looking at a lot of areas. We can see that, among other things. in the case of aid policy, and we saw it in the context of Iraq, where the Progress Party was the only Norwegian party that chose not to focus on the UN track but who blindly wanted to follow the United States. Now there has been a huge increase in the resistance to war, and I would say that the results in Iraq so far are all but brilliant. But we haven't heard any comments from the Progress Party that suggest that they've taken a distance from their own history. My question is, is it still such that the Progress Party believes that Norway should have supported and shared with forces in the invasion of Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e253	It is a misunderstanding that we are warning against debate. That is precisely the debate we want. We have had great debates in this Chamber – even an interpellation that was almost formulated as an invitation to the Progress Party to explain its Iraq vision. So this has been thoroughly debated in this room not many months ago. And so far, during this day, we can repeat it, and I'd like to do it. We both see and take with us the experiences that history has given us. The representative Aksensen drew up the need to take that lesson with Iran. If there's something we've just spent time warning against, there's a military thinking about a solution to the Iran issue. I think we're on line in this area. Yes, we evaluated Norwegian support for Iraq in a different way, like what Denmark did, and like what several European governments did. We can continue that debate beyond the day, but there is also a record here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e260	I do not think the representative, Mr Höglund, gave a good enough answer to the question put by Mr Aksselsen about the Progress Party in the light of the post-war situation still seems right to support the sending of special forces to Iraq, given the situation we are now seeing in Iraq. I have another question. It's about the world's biggest challenge, the climate challenges. If we don't solve them, there's no chance for the next generations. The most important thing is that it is the poorest who have to pay the price, and from the point of view of the Progress Party, it must also be a crossroads of thought that there are many climate refugees. Even President Bush is beginning to recognise that climate challenges are a major challenge that needs to be addressed. Then my question is: does the Progress Party share that view, and will the Progress Party, in that case, adopt a much more offensive position with regard to international agreements, and in particular new post-Kyoto agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e267	It's okay to feel that I haven't answered the question about Iraq well enough. As I said, we have debated this thoroughly in this Chamber before, but we should like to get back to it. We take the climate issue very seriously. We take the consequences of the climate change we experience. We're going to have an active and offensive policy on how we have to deal with them. We see something different about how the international agreements manage to meet the challenges we see. But to all intents and purposes, we want to participate constructively. We have a somewhat different view of how the climate challenges have arisen, but that there are challenges related to them and that there are challenges associated with the poor world, are challenges that Norway needs to take seriously when we meet them. If it's SV's recipe that is the solution, we're very uncertain about it, but we want to participate in the debate in the future. I promise that in today's debate we will also be going into this issue in depth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e276	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e279	Let me begin by congratulating the Minister for Foreign Affairs on what they themselves refer to on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website as the most important speech of the year. I'm not gonna judge it, but I understand it's a self-esteem. I should also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence for having duly consulted the bodies of Storting on the matter of the special force contribution to Afghanistan. I think it promises well for cooperation with the Stortinget in important areas in the future. I'm not quite sure if the aftergame has been equally lucky. I'll come back to it. The presentation began and ended with reflections on Norway’s place in the world. I think that's important. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is involved not only in his policy but also in his thinking about politics – what historical ballast he brings with him and what Norway is going to achieve. Exceptionally, the Minister of Foreign Affairs went in detail when it came to the instruments to be used. I believe that the instruments in many areas will be crucial. In contrast to the Foreign Minister's formulations on the Middle East, where our experiences and our networks were to be crucial, in Right International Cooperation in all available international forums, we consider the most important means of achieving influence, both for our interests and for our views. I actually think, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that Norway can change the world, but we rarely get it alone. Norway is a small country in the periphery of Europe. We have strong self-interests in many parts of the world, but we have limited ability to promote them. At the same time, Norway has for years had an ambitious agenda for democracy, human rights and development in countries that are worse off. We do not achieve these objectives without well-functioning international institutions. These institutions are under pressure because Norwegian foreign policy is asleep. It's unfortunately today's situation. Nor does the right take Norway’s safety as a matter of course. We're going no further than last year's presentation to find a series of acute situations. The Norwegian Embassy in Syria had been looted and burned. The Norwegian base in North Afghanistan had come under heavy shooting. Thanks to the brave efforts of our soldiers and rapid rescue from allied troops, no Norwegians were killed in battle in Meymaneh. The Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States showed that they were recognizable last year. They were our friends' friends. As far as I know, they did not demand full government negotiations in The Hague, London and Washington. They only acted under the spirit and letter of the NATO Pact – one for all, all for one. In the Prime Minister's reply to the Storting yesterday, the spirit of the NATO Pact was markedly different. Now it's different if a Norwegian soldier is under attack. Others may not have equal hopes for help from Norwegian special forces. I agree with Olav Aksensen that it is important that we agree that we should send special forces. But I would like to say that in this Chamber we do not agree on the mandate of the special forces. We do not want the kind of restrictions imposed on them by the Government, because it will be contrary to the spirit of NATO. What we mean is in line with what the Foreign Minister himself said when he spoke to NATO's foreign ministers at the end of January. We can't have a situation where our NATO loyalty and help to others depends on the day-form of SV, because they're in government. When Kristin Halvorsen says that Norwegian troops in any case are not going to South Afghanistan, a special force should only be in Kabul, it is not necessarily just a problem for Oslo, Brussels and NATO headquarters, but equally a problem for London, The Hague, Copenhagen, Washington, Ottawa and other capitals that are accustomed to recognition by the Norwegian Government and Norway in their NATO work. Jan Petersen will later deepen his view of the situation and needs in Afghanistan. I just want to take this opportunity to say that civil and aid efforts are of course important. Right-wing support for Afghanistan – the highest priority in Norwegian aid. An 18-page presentation testifies to ambition. However, the subsequent coverage has been limited to two sentences – the only two sentences that all knew were difficult for SV. The Labour Party won the battle on the matter, but SV won the battle on the agenda – but I don't know if they feel that way today. So immediately after the presentation was made, the compromise broke in the government. The working party does not exclude operations outside the Kabul area, but will first give its approval. In other ways, we cannot interpret the replies of the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to my reply. But SV has to veto a scenario like that. I am constantly wondering how much unrest and problems the Labour Party is willing to swallow in foreign policy because of the distance from SV – a turmoil that also spread to NATO, and which today has also spread far into the Norwegian defence, which does not understand how to maintain NATO loyalty and NATO alliance philosophy while having this kind of mandate with them when they travel. The right is not only concerned with interests, but we're also concerned with values. Interests can lead us into cooperation with anyone. Values, on the other hand, significantly limit the selection of partners, but cooperation is deepening and longer-term. Democracy, freedom of expression and other human rights and open economy are values that have been the key to the success of Norway and our allies. They are the foundation wall of the European Union, and they are the foundation wall of NATO. It is precisely this that makes cooperation in European and Euro-Atlantic bodies valuable to us and to those who participate, but not least to our people. However, these values can easily come under pressure when political, economic and military power is shifted. And it's moving for the moment. China and Russia are two countries that have emerged in recent years with increasing confidence in their neighbourhoods and in the global arena. Both have elements of an open economy, but they are without democracy, the rule of law and all the rights that naturally belong in the West with a more open economy. In last year's aid policy statement, Erik Solheim was enthusiastic about China's invasion of the world arena. I have to say that I'm not always as enthusiastic about China taking its fair share, precisely because the values they convey are not in line with the values we think should characterize the legal community. And with what values is Russia going to characterize it, with a larger intrusion on the international arena? There will not necessarily be the development of human rights or respect for democracy on that basis. At the same time, we see that regimes that were to have been thrown the longest on history's scrapphaug – Cuba, White Russia, North Korea and Burma – live on, partly well-assisted by a network of other notorious human rights violating regimes, including Iran and Zimbabwe, and they can also, to a greater extent, receive international support from two larger and more dominant economic powers. Several countries also deliberately use their petroleum resources politically and populistly. Here, Venezuela is the most serious example. In meeting this, we need to think about how our foreign policy should be. If Norway is to be a friend of its friends, it also requires clarification of who our friends are. I aim for friends who share our values, and with whom we share both the past and the future. There is something the government so far has not been able to express clearly. A UN-led world order does not give the answer to this. The UN is all. Some are closer than others. I would like to challenge the Foreign Minister on exactly this: Who is Norway's closest friends in this world? And what are the consequences for the Government's foreign policy? Once every four years, Norway notes that we are outside the Football World Cup. It might be pessimistic of me to say that it's going to be like that in the future as well. But it's been like this most times. Every day of the year, we note politicians that Norway is outside the EU. A unanimous increase recently declared that the EU has played an important role in ensuring peace, economic development, democracy and human rights. Furthermore, on Tuesday, the Stortinget underlined that EU cooperation affects most aspects of Norwegian society. The majority also said that the EU must focus more on its own integration and enlargement. This may lead to less attention to Norway, and it is challenging for us. Some have wondered about this positive tone to the EU, but it is an emphasis that those who are close to us together, and those who affect us every day, are the countries that are now united in the EU. It will continue to be a problem for Norwegian foreign policy that we have not clarified and established a closer relationship with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e317	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e320	Let me first repeat what Akssen also said, that the Chief of Defense Sverre Dennen today says that the defense of course does not review political decisions. Then I would like to challenge Erna Solberg on Russia, because Russia is important to Norway. In my view, the government is pursuing a balanced policy between having firmness on the one hand and having an interest-based strategy on the other and having dialogue, and perhaps constructive dialogue, on the other hand, in order to contribute to the development of a fragile democracy. In my opinion, both the Right, and perhaps especially Erna Solberg, have recently resorted to a rather aggressive Russian criticism. I also believe that she has said that Russia is not a democracy. Does Solberg think it serves Norwegian interests? Not to say, does she believe that it ensures an impact on important democratic developments and the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e328	I have no doubt that the head of defence is going to follow political guidelines and what politicians are saying, because that's his job. But that does not mean that there is no concern in the defence that they are being sent with a mandate that is difficult for them to deal with. I think that concerns should be taken seriously by the Workers' Party, and that is what has been expressed. As far as Russia is concerned, I believe that we must dry it out when there is a violation of human rights, when there is a lack of a legal state, and when developments go wrong. What I have said is quite correct: after a strict definition of democracy, we cannot say that Russia is a democracy. The most interesting thing I've heard is that there are an incredible number of Russians who agree with me, including selected Russians. On the other hand, they say they're on their way, some say they're going the wrong way, while others say they're on their way, that there's development. But I don't think anyone, after a strict definition of democracy, can say that Russia is a democracy today. Until that's the state of law for defamation, until there's the human rights violations too many. The big question is, is it going the right way, or is it going the wrong way? We should follow that up a little bit more. My clear position is that at least we cannot stop being concerned about human rights violations and developments in Russia – precisely because they are a big neighbour of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e339	I'm recording that the Right Leader chose a special trick of capitals that she mentioned. It doesn't mean all the other capitals where there's not as much unity as in the ones mentioned. There are many internal debates in NATO – one has a debate on the role of NATO in relation to energy, one has a debate on each of them should be relevant, and one of them, of course, also has many debates in connection with different strength-generating processes. It should also be known to the Right that there is an enormous debate within NATO. In fact, he's so big that NATO can crack at it – because one is so unevenly internal. The last, in Seville, blatant use of the NRF force, where it was quite clear that a large majority did not at all accept any use of the NRF force other than for humanitarian purposes, precisely because military acts of course have as their primary purpose the preservation of civil life. Does the Right see that there are several internal debates in NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e348	I understand that SV, which is against NATO, is also against participation in Afghanistan. I don't understand that they are on behalf of the Afghan people, because what they do first of all is to sell out women and children in Afghanistan to Taliban-like regimes, which I otherwise record as many women in the SV are deeply opposed when you look at other places where there have been similar situations. On the issue of our participation in Afghanistan, we have said yes in Norway to participate in Afghanistan. NATO has agreed to operate and has defined it as the most important operation they have. Yes, there are left-wing radical governments in several countries that have problems similar to the SV. There are some siblings of SV around who also sit and discuss where to participate. But for Norway, NATO is more important than for many other countries, because we do not have an EU connection. We have NATO as our main security guarantee and will have it in the future. Then it is important for Norway that NATO succeeds, and it is important that we succeed in Afghanistan. It's the most important operation that NATO is doing, and then Norway should be silent without the kind of conditions that SV has now imposed on them, which, of course, is going to hit the nation's capitals that actually have soldiers that it's time to be able to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e357	The representative of Solberg commented on Norway’s relationship with the EU at its end, and she was also involved in Storting’s treatment of St.meld No. 23 for 2005-2006, where I believe that all parties have taken a very pragmatic view of our major trading partner. In the context of the latest developments in the Middle East, I have recorded that the EU has expressed considerable scepticism about the government that is now operating and working in Palestine. The United States has done the same thing. I think our foreign minister has said with a clear voice that we have a different and more nuanced attitude to this issue, and an exciting one too. My question is, would we have had the opportunity if we were within the EU that we now have with a clear voice outside the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e366	The important thing is not that we have a voice that speaks, the important thing is that something happens as a consequence of what you do. If we could have influenced the EU's position internally, it would have been more likely that it would have effects than just saying something. When it comes to the very thing that Samuelsen mentions, I have to say that I am very concerned that we have to make sure that the Palestinian people have a better future. There has been a difficult and critical situation, and there is a difficult and critical situation. But I don't believe in Norway alone, where we say in a way that the requirements of the Quartet have been met, until the Quartet itself defines that the requirements have been met – i.e. the international requirements you have. We have read through all the documents to which it is referred and I do not feel sure that we have received the benefits that are necessary in order for us to start working alone. On the other hand, I think it would have been a good idea to calm down and talk a little bit more with the parties before, with our own voice, we strongly oppose what is happening in those countries that have the greatest influence on whether or not it will be a joint government, and whether or not it will be a good development for the Palestinians, and that is the other partners in the Quartet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e373	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a full and good presentation. It shows that foreign policy has gone in the right direction in many areas of this government. We have a foreign minister with a clear voice who dares to go to the front where others are wretched and who dare to take positions that are not dictated by the United States, for example. in the Palestine question. We have a foreign minister who says clearly from: ‘For too long, there has been excessive belief in what military power can accomplish A heavy military focus can become self-enhancing by assessing solutions to new challenges too quickly in a military perspective. [[...]] The disaster in Iraq is bearing witness to this.» The opposition, and in particular the party leader, Siv Jensen, says that SV suffers defeat in foreign policy. That's simply not true. We have withdrawn from Iraq and Operation Enduring Freedom, with its anti-terrorism mandate. Norway will build up during the shattered process in Palestine. Norway is not sending forces for offensive warfare in South Afghanistan. Norway, in international forums, has taken the lead in achieving a comprehensive strategy with emphasis on civil construction, on schools, health services, roads and water supply, on national construction, on political processes in which Afghans have to own their own development, and we have heard about it. Norway has made some important demands on the poorest countries in the GATS negotiations. This government inspires those who stand in the important struggles for justice in the south. At the big conference on globalisation in Oslo this fall, more representatives of the movements in the south said just that. SVs are impatient on behalf of the poor and oppressed. So that doesn't mean that we're in the goal, but that the direction is reversed, and the direction is right. I will first comment on the decision to send soldiers to Kabul. There are no military solutions in Afghanistan. There is no doubt that SV is opposed to sending more soldiers, sailing if it is only for six months, thus increasing the military contribution in Afghanistan. Several soldiers are not the answer to Afghanistan's challenges. We believe that Norway's contribution to the development of the country must be to further strengthen the civil, humanitarian and political trail, but we recognise that there is a majority both in the Government and in the United Kingdom to send more soldiers. Once we have accepted the decision, it is because we have been made aware of the fact that forces are not to be sent to offensive missions in South Afghanistan in 2007 and that no further soldiers are to be sent to Afghanistan this year. There is no doubt that the Government has given guarantees that this should be the case. That's what the Foreign Minister said. That's what the Prime Minister said. And it's been notified to NATO. This is very important to us. The war in the south has led to people getting worse, not better. Instead of having waged war against hunger and poverty, it has now been the war against the terrorists. "The foreigners came here and said they would help the poor people and improve the economic situation. But they've only spent money on military operations. The poor are poorer than the Taliban.’ This is what a former commander says in an international report. This is evident from the explanation that the Taliban and other rebel forces have been strengthened, the explanation of ongoing attacks, of unrest and uncertainty. For each bomb that falls, for each resident that is injured or killed, the rise in Taliban engulfment is increasing. Therefore, it is so important that the strategy in the south is discussed and re-evaluated. I also believe that the opposition should have taken on board, not least taking on the historical lesson that Afghanistan is a proud country, a country that does not want to be occupied, a country that turns on those who are perceived as occupying. That's what the British have learned, it's what the Soviets have learned, and the bitter lesson is also going to come to NATO if the strategy in the south is not significantly changed. Should the forces in Kabul have any meaning, it must be to build a greater room for political processes. It's a track that needs to be reinforced. I am therefore pleased that the Foreign Minister said just that, and I quote: ‘Reconciliation is such a central political process. We place the decisive emphasis on the reconciliation task facing the Afghan Government." And I would add: there must be dialogue also with the Taliban forces, so that the Pashtun village people feel represented, because without dialogue with all groupings, without ties between the institutions in Kabul and the more traditional power structures, there will be no peace in Afghanistan. It serves the world, but the most important thing: it serves the Afghan people. We must increase – and increase – the civil and humanitarian contribution to Afghanistan, but at the same time we must call for serious efforts to be made to combat corruption by the Karzai Government. Corrupt rulers who think more of their own economic gain than of population development are unfortunately represented in government. And not least, the police are corrupt. Therefore, they are so important the contributions we make, to capacity building, to national construction, which is to strengthen the judiciary and the police, which are the basis of a legal state in which people can trust, to projects to strengthen the competence of local government, to contribute to strengthening the role of the UN as an international coordinator, and not least to strengthening the role and position of women. This involves cooperation with, for example: women's committees are important. These are 1325 tasks, Women, Peace and Security set up in the system. Women's resources must be mobilised. The situation of women is still very alarming and needs to be improved. The Foreign Minister said in his statement that there is a continuous belt of related individual conflicts from Afghanistan, through the Middle East and to the African Horn. I want to stop in the Middle East. Many Middle East connoisseurs have warned against the Western boycott of Hamas that it would lead to civil war and worsening conditions for the Palestinians. The same Middle East experts commend Norway's constructive role when we now support the Palestinian Government Agreement. It is quite right, as the Foreign Minister said in the statement, that Hamas, through the Mecca agreement, has committed itself without reservation to the agreements concluded with Israel by the PLO on behalf of the Palestinian people. The road must be opened up to normal political and economic relations with the Palestinian maritime administrations, including Hamas, when the government comes into place. Of course. Norway has the opportunity to speak with a maritime voice and a clear voice because we are not members of the EU, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has used this opportunity, also to be clear to Israel. Because it is a problem that the West has been clear on the demands of the occupied Palestinians, but has let Israel get away with it when they have broken the same legitimate demands through occupation, settlement, construction of the wall and violence and repression of the Palestinian population. There are many common denominators for conflict areas. One of them is the role of the United States. The U.S. military power is greater than ever, and they are constantly threatening to use this military force in the fight against terrorism. The United States alone has made the world more dangerous, especially when combined with violations of the international law of war, as in Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib. This has led to a disaster in Iraq and to more terrorists, not fewer. We're going to hope that the United States will learn, and the dialogue with North Korea, which has led to a happy agreement, could be the example of the United States of America learning. There is a clear majority in the House of Representatives and in the American people against the Single Act. It can give hope. And speaking of disarmament, Norway is a proponent of disarmament and non-proliferation and of an international agreement for a ban on class ammunition. Nuclear disarmament is now as important as when we went on trains against nuclear disarmament in the 1980s. At that time it led to the mobilisation of disarmament agreements. The Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the work on landmines when it comes to working for a ban on class weapons. It is possible to get this ban, and especially when we have strong and impatient non-governmental organisations on our side. Finally, climate challenges are one of the most important issues of our time, including in foreign policy. As a rich and small country, Norway must live up to climate commitments. I am pleased with the strong emphasis of that in the presentation. That means we have to do the job at home and out. It's about working locally and globally, and we have the opportunity to go ahead like the country we are. We have to use that opportunity, not least because it's the poorest who have to pay the highest price because the rich part of the world, including Norway, has released their quota of CO2 and so on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e418	The SV and the SV's foreign policy spokespersons must at least include nothing. You put it all out in the open room, and it's deserving. During a look-up today in Dagbladet.no, it says, ‘Dissatisfied SVs have misunderstood’. A number of spokespersons from various relief organisations say that the military presence, the military contributions, is necessary in order to come up with the humanitarian assistance. So my question to the representative Valle is: Hasn't SV misunderstood? Isn't it naive to think that we can solve the challenges in Afghanistan without military contributions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e425	The same international organisations are also the first to point out the fact that 11 times more has been spent on military expenditure than on humanitarian and civil missions in Afghanistan. SV supports the ISAF forces and the fact that we have forces in the north, and in particular the reason that it will help build up under the possibility of humanitarian space. But what we're against is sending soldiers to offensive missions that only increase the rise in the Taliban population, which makes the lives of the Afghan rural population worse, and which causes us to get huge flows of internal refugees. I honestly think that also the Progress Party and other parts of the opposition should take this into account, or at least start to see if there is no way that there is a tab of truth in this reflection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e430	SV is concerned with democracy and democratic development, and in its contribution Ågot Valle says that the Government is on the side of the poor. Well, now the left wind over Latin America has swept the last remainder of democracy out of the Venezuelan National Assembly. Doesn't SV regret the congratulations telegram they sent President Chávez last fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e437	There is a lot to say about developments in Venezuela, but what has at least happened is that they have tried to take greater control of oil – which is a resource that can then be a joy to the population – and that they will try to carry out the same type of oil management as we have done. SV will always address violations of democracy and human rights, whether it happens here or there. After all, it has been our role in politics for many, many years to choose the third way, to break democracy and human rights, wherever it happens. But then I'm very happy that we are now creating alliances with other democratic forces in Latin America, such as, among other things. upholds the right to water as a common resource, as a human right. I sincerely hope that we have the Right-wing support for that particular work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e445	The SV shall be in favour of assistance, civil society building and dialogue in Afghanistan. The critical People's Party will be a driver of it in opposition, as SV is in government. But then I have to say that SV now has to decide which leg they want to stand on. SV is opposed to sending more soldiers," said Ågot Valle. Yes, but SV is now responsible for sending several soldiers, and SV is responsible for getting the largest quota of Norwegian forces in Afghanistan ever. That responsibility must be so adult that they take. I also think they should reconsider their rhetoric. I stand here with a pinch of quotes, used by SV politicians against Kjell Magne Bondevik and Jan Petersen at the time when Norway entered and took responsibility at the beginning of Afghanistan. Olav Gunnar Ballo said to New Time that they «have blood on their hands, which they must wash off every day». I would like to ask Ågot Valle, when SV is now co-responsible for this large quota of Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan, if they do not want to adjust their use of words about others who have also taken responsibility in difficult situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e456	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is going to be an impatient partner in terms of increasing the civil contribution to Afghanistan, and also, I hope, increasing the pressure for us to initiate political processes that could lead to peace in Afghanistan. Yes, of course SV takes responsibility. I explained our primary position, but we have therefore accepted that we are sending more soldiers to Afghanistan, precisely because we have won through with our view that we are not sending soldiers to offensive warfare in South Afghanistan. Then I have to challenge back: has the Christian People's Party ever reflected on what they were into when they went in and supported the operation «Enduring Freedom», which was a war against the terrorists, and not a war against poverty and hunger?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e465	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e468	The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave particular attention to the situation in Afghanistan and the Middle East, but I took particular note of a brief side note. He said that there seems to be a continuous belt of related individual conflicts from Afghanistan through the Middle East to Sudan, yes, from Kabul to Khartoum. Exactly the same point was made by the Swedish Foreign Minister, Carl Bildt, in his presentation to Parliament on the same day. This regional perspective is interesting. It would have deserved a separate statement, and maybe we can get it another time. There are peculiarities of all countries and conflicts, but the conflicts and underdevelopments in this region also have deep common features. The UNDP 'Arab Human Development Report' provides exciting and self-critical analyses of the problems of the Arab region. Within the wider Muslim world there is a sharp ideological drag fight. Do the democratic reformists or the militant extremists win? The outcome affects our security. The new international threat of terrorism is a source of movement from this region. The question to us is: can we develop a policy that helps the democratic reform forces to win over the militant extremists? Then much has been won, for the population of these countries and for international security. To succeed better, the democratic world must stand together. As the Foreign Minister said, we need to become more aware of the religious dimension and how we can mobilise support for reconciliation processes through cultural and religious dialogue. And we need to have a better relationship in our foreign policy – between our efforts for development, for trade, for peace and reconciliation, for democracy and human rights and our military measures for stabilisation. In the last few days, we've seen a government struggling to agree on this, on security policy. One of the government parties even sees itself having to raise the question of whether they can still sit in the government. The background is the Government’s decision to send a large quota of Norwegian special forces to Kabul. I would say to the representative Ågot Valle: Of course, all the representatives in this room who have been involved in deciding Norwegian efforts in international operations have taken seriously and reflected on the ethical dilemmas by doing so. But what I'm going to challenge is that they are now redefineing their self-understanding as a peace party and a resistance to war. It is possible to work for peace to avoid war, and as part of this, to send special forces or planes to Afghanistan in an attempt to contribute to the stabilisation, peace and development of a war-torn country. Of course, economic development and national construction must be strengthened, but without security humanitarian and civil work will not succeed. What's happening now is that the SV in the government position meets reality. They have to change their policies. My challenge is that they also add about their rhetoric and maybe think about what they said about others, who were responsible in similar situations earlier, today kicks back on themselves. Since the government released the news of the Special Soldiers, we've seen a slip in the premises. On Tuesday, the Minister of Defence assured that there were no formal restrictions on where the forces could be used. Wednesday came the correction. During the spontaneous Question Time, we were told that NATO was informed that the forces were only to serve in the Kabul region. Let me remind you of what happened when the Norwegian soldiers in Meymaneh came into a crisis situation: Allierte forces came to rescue. We got help when we needed it. That's what solidarity is called. It's no wonder a NATO spokesman found yesterday to have to remind the government of what it was at the Riga Summit. It's almost impossible to believe: the red-green government can now fall for its own grasp if it should be called a corresponding act of solidarity, because SV cannot allow our soldiers to come to the rescue of Dutch and Canadian allies if they are far enough away from Kabul. There's that thing right there, right now. The peace process between Israel and the Palestinians has long been harmful. Norway’s efforts through the Oslo process in the 1990s were not tolerated by all. Hamas and other terrorist groups literally shattered the seeds of peace. When Hamas won the power of government in Palestine one year ago, the United Nations, the United States, the EU and Russia were perfectly clear. The Hamas government had to accept three essential requirements: recognise the State of Israel. Take away from violence. Accept all agreements concluded by the Palestinian authorities, including the Roadmap to Peace. But Hamas refused. Each inch of the Middle East's land is according to the charter of Hamas' marriage as a Muslim land, and Israel's existence is not acceptable. The agreement in Mecca gives new hope, first of all, a hope for an end to the inter-war between armed Palestinian fractions. Nearly one hundred Palestinians have been killed in such disputes in the last few months. Second, the Mecca agreement means an end to the Hamas government. This appointment opens the way for a Palestinian assembly administration. We hope, as the Foreign Minister, that it can become a peace partner for Israel. But I would suggest a greater care in the interpretation of what Hamas will pass on that they have agreed to. Last weekend the foreign minister went out to the media and said that the Mecca agreement made Norway want to resume normal relations. It was in my view hasty. On Monday evening, EU foreign ministers concluded that they would first wait and look at the composition and programme of the government to see how far the world community’s three demands have been met. Tuesday the Minister for Foreign Affairs made his statement. Then there was the same reservation, normalisation could come ‘if this comes into place’. It was an important clarification, as the Christian People's Party values. There are still several difficult questions, including: who shall control the security forces. Whether Hamas will actually recognise Israel's right to exist remains to be seen. Nor is it quite precise when the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that ‘Hamas has committed himself, through the Mecca Agreement without reservation, to the agreements concluded with Israel on behalf of the Palestinian people.’ At the Mecca meeting, President Abbas just tried to include Hamas in the wording ‘commitment’, but the result was Hamas’s refusal. Instead, the compromise was that they would ‘respect’ previously concluded agreements. The dispute over the wording of this point has been so central — including in expert comments after the meeting — that I am surprised that the Foreign Minister spoke as he did on this point. We share the hope that the Palestinians will get their own house sorted out. And I am encouraged that Israel too chooses to await the clarifications on the Palestinian side. In addition, I would like to add one aspect, which the Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt drew up in his presentation to the Swedish Parliament last Tuesday. We must continue to support Palestinian territories and 'additional broadening and deepening relations with Israel'. That should also be the position of the Norwegian Government. I would also challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to help ensure that the 60-year-old Kashmir conflict is not forgotten. Without a solution, the civilian population will continue to suffer. We must all help to support the dialogue currently underway between Pakistan and India on this unfortunate conflict. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister directly what he thinks Norway can do to bring this dangerous conflict into a path that can bring peace and development to Kashmir's hard-hit population. Fortunately, the problems in our own neighbourhoods are less dramatic than the conflicts I have mentioned. However, it was quite appropriate that the report provided an update on the northern regions. I will give tribute to Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre for the targeted work that he and the Government are doing on the agenda, not only here in the Grand Duchy, but in all the international forums where we have occasion to do so. Nordic policy is climate policy; it is environmental and energy policy; it is security policy; it is industrial policy; yes, it is a focus of the globalised world. I have noticed the important work that is now being done to establish Norway's rights in relation to the extent of the continental shelf and Svalbard. As President-in-Office of the Nordic Council, I would like to contribute, for my part, to setting environmental and energy policy challenges in the Nordic regions on the Nordic agenda. It is gratifying that there has now been a revival of life in the northern dimension of the European Union – an occasion we, from the Nordic side, and from the Norwegian side, have to take advantage of for everything it is worth. In this regard, I will participate with other representatives of the Stortinget at a conference chaired by the European Parliament at the end of this month on the northern dimension of the European Union. The fact that the European Parliament is putting the northern areas under debate in this way is very positive from the Norwegian and Nordic sides. Norway’s challenges in the north are largely related to the sea areas. It doesn't apply as much to our Nordic neighbours. Nevertheless – we are neighbours in the north, and it is together that we can best create a good and secure future in this part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e524	I would like to commend the Government's initiative and move in the right direction in support of the fragile Middle East peace process and possible Palestinian unification. It may provide a basis for stopping violence and suffering primarily for the civilian population, especially in the Gaza Strip. I record that the Israeli ambassador has been interviewed by the media and said that the foreign minister has gone a little too far in accepting the self-government authorities. And from that point of view, I almost see it as an acceptance of the Norwegian position. I am therefore amazed that the Christian People's Party is stronger in its use of words. The Christian People's Party warns in the press against the Government's position. And I'm surprised that the Christian People's Party and Dagfinn Højbräten seem to be more concerned with the form of the recognition of Israel and previous agreements, than possible the initiative and encouragement of a fragile peace process, which can stop violence and suffering for the civilian population. Norway should not wait to come to the covered table.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e531	I believe the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party are at least equally concerned with supporting the fragile peace process in the Middle East, but the question is what is best suited to supporting the process. There I would argue – regardless of what various ambassadors may have said, it is not essential for the Christian People's Party – that when, throughout the period that has passed since Hamas took over the government power, the international community has chosen to agree on the three requirements that I referred to in my post, and the other parties to international cooperation, in this quartet, choose to take a waiting position – so do not deny that the Mecca agreement meets these requirements – it is a little strange that Norway should go alone, that Norway should play a solo game and cancel the pressure on the parties. It was, in fact, what the Foreign Minister did when he said in the statement that this is as far as you can go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e536	I will also follow up the situation in Palestine. I am, after all, happy that the representative Højbråten says that it is important to build up under the fragile processes that are in progress, but I record that we have two different positions in relation to it. I also want to challenge the representative, when he attacks Hamas – it's the charter that Hamas has, which many of us can attack – to look at acts rather than rhetoric, because Hamas has clearly been moving for quite a long time if you really want to look at what they've done. There were many signs that Hamas was moving faster than the PLO did before. I have a question about the attitude of Israel: the Christian People's Party has been involved in stressing strongly the demands of the occupied, but what about the demands of the occupying party? Does the High Council really mean that Israel is complying with the international decisions and obligations to Palestine?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e543	Let me first say to the question of the Hamas and Hamas charter: I am glad that SV also realizes that there is no platform for a peace process in the Middle East, where there is annihilation of Israel as a target, and where all the country in the area is dedicated Muslim soil. It is important to adopt a critical position on the type of obstacles to any peace process. So I would say yes, Hamas has moved in the year it has been in government position. The most important expression for that is the Mecca Agreement. But the question is, would that movement have happened if it had not been a collective international community that had put pressure on Hamas? I think that is a question that should give cause for concern, also in SV. Then, of course, we have to make demands on all parties. There will be no peace in the Middle East without the recognition of Israel, but there will be no peace without Israel contributing to such a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e552	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e555	Let me start this speech by thanking the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough statement on Tuesday, where he makes visible the strong, holistic and autonomous role that Norway is now playing in foreign policy. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned in his statement: ‘home here’ and ‘far away’ are hardly in a global perspective. That is why we need to follow several lines at the same time – in peace-building work, in aid policy, in trade policy and in our state ownership. Security policy is a superstructure; ethics is a cornerstone of this work. While the red-green government is implementing a change in foreign policy, we operate well within what has been the main foreign policy lines in Norway over time. We are clear, and we are predictable. I think that the Government's Afghanistan policy clearly shows the role we can play internationally. First, we drew our forces out of Operation Enduring Freedom to bet on ISAF, with mandates on security, stability and development in Afghanistan. Secondly, we took the initiative, both in Norway and internationally, to strike a balance between security multilateral action and humanitarian multilateral action. I note and support the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses the importance of not mixing the mandate of humanitarian organisations with the military. Support for UNNAMA is a welcome and a right priority. Here, it is important to listen to the UN on what is necessary to ensure stable recruitment and resources in the right place, while Norway contributes in those areas where we have the best prospects to contribute. The work now being done to strengthen civil and political processes nationally and locally, and cooperation with local leaders in this process, is essential if Afghan society is to gradually be able to solve its own problems. Therefore, the Centre Party may support an increase in staff in the Kabul area, with the task of contributing to the provision of space for the central administration to fulfil these important societal functions. It reassures us that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister confirm that the field of action of the crews will not change without this being clarified with the Government. I also noticed that when the Foreign Affairs Committee last Thursday had a visit by Minister of Foreign Affairs Bernard Bot from the Netherlands, he expressed full agreement with us on Norway's line in Afghanistan. He confirmed that it was the same line that the Netherlands led. The Netherlands has often been on the same line as the Nordic countries on important foreign policy issues vis-à-vis third countries. I find it reassuring to hear that this is still the case. It is with pleasure that I register what has now happened in the Middle East, with the signature of the agreement in Mecca. The Secretary of State's handling of the case has the full support of the Centre Party. The fragile process needs the support it can get, and I think it's an important step that Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan, Syria and the Arab League are now taking a responsibility to get the negotiations going. For us in the Grand Duchy, it is important to keep the parliamentary channel open for support and assistance. I noticed that Norway plays an important role in the line chosen by the Government, both in strengthening the EU's votes of like-mindedness and in the relationship between the EU, the United States and the countries that have committed themselves to developing the Mecca Agreement. I allowed myself to ask a question to the representative of Solberg in connection with her posts, and I repeat it once again: Would we have had the opportunity to be as clear as we are now, if we had been within the EU? I think it's an interesting observation. I know that it can be said that we take a risk by following the government line in the Middle East. However, I believe that there is a calculated risk and that the chance of success is present. It leads the process out of the dead water in which it has been, giving a new trail to the peace process. That should be enough for us to follow this line. What is now important is to pursue the requirements for Israel that Norway and international law will require, but of course also the requirements for the Palestinians. In addition, the requirements for both parties must be firm. I think it is right that the region's actors get and take a greater role in stabilising the situation in Iraq. This also applies to Syria and Iran. We must also support those who work in the UN Tribune in connection with the assassination of former Prime Minister in Lebanon, Rafik al-Hariri. The Minister of Foreign Affairs calls the northern areas Norway's main foreign policy area. Predictability, presence, activity and knowledge are key words for the effort. What is particularly important about our three northernmost states is that the entire range of activities at sea and on land has become increasingly important in international contexts. In the debates and in the performances of the many actors, it can often be seen that only off-shore activities count. That is why I am delighted, and probably the rest of the population in the north, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs so strongly stresses that on the agenda there is both energy, fisheries, the environment, climate, industry, research, education, travel, etc. included in this image. I also noticed that, in the debate on the European Communication on Tuesday, the Foreign Minister pointed out that Sweden and Finland, as our main neighbouring country in the EU, which is borderless with the Barents Sea, show great interest in the north. Even more interesting is that they focus on activities on land. It is natural that they have no border with the Barents Sea. I think we should notice this bet and this interest. Norway is the only country in the polar region that has had and continues to have a targeted district policy. It has ensured a viable society, an Arctic agriculture, a knowledge base, a popular commitment and a contact across borders that is unique. I believe that this is an advantage that we should also benefit from in foreign policy. In our Northern Region Strategy, we need to have long-term objectives and environmental sustainability in a generation perspective beyond the period of oil activity. In this perspective, we need to ensure Norway as a supplier of quality products from the sea, harvested by a sustainable regime, and strengthen stable – and preferably increasing – settlement in the area, with sustainable resource use and resource management that provides local ring-fences and has good local anchoring. I believe that this is the best strategy to strengthen and consolidate Norwegian jurisdiction and legitimacy. Even more offensively, we can think in the north if we, as politicians for the whole country, are helping to develop North Norway into a centre of gravity in the North Callot. It can serve a series of economic, service and management functions for the polar region. We then make even more visible the link between active district policy, industrial policy, ownership policy and research and education policy. Our presence is our legitimacy and our advantage. Success targets must relate to employment, population growth, real wages growth, the number of economic activities and added value in the production of goods and services. The central party awaits with excitement what the Government will present during the spring in terms of cooperation with Russia in the field of infrastructure. Finally, let me make some comments about this with the environment. I have gladly registered that the Sofia price is being distributed today and given to a statesman on the other side of the border, Göran Persson. What he has done with his efforts in Sweden should also be possible in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e606	It is very surprising that the Central Party Chief Spokesman in Foreign Affairs does not take into account the words ‘trade challenges’ in his mouth. He skips the WTO agreement, areas such as trade policy are more important for District Norway and for Fisheries Norway than any other policy area. Surprisingly, in many ways, it's not when we know what the Center Party has as its basic attitude, and they're putting both of the brakes on these questions. But now it seems that the poor countries are gathering in their desire to establish a trade agreement, which is so important to them. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also stated that he has a sense of Norwegian customs code against poor countries. Is it the case that the Central Party is still fighting in government to prevent a WTO agreement, even if it would appear that the poor countries are gathering around such a desire and objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e613	The answer to the question is no. In the WTO context, we should not conceal that the Centre Party has been reasonably sceptical in part of the developments that have taken place, including: because the poor countries have not come out clearly worse. Now that the poor countries have gathered together, there is a signal that we have the opportunity to meet them in a very different way, and that is a point where at least the centre party has been fairly clear: we must take account of the poor countries as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e620	From the outside, it seems that the Centre Party has been quite calm in the last few days, while the Coalition Partners Workers' Party and SV have had a tough grip on foreign policy and Afghanistan. I experience the Center Party as a party with a solid anchor in the Norwegian NATO membership. I would therefore like to ask the Central Party how they believe that in a given situation the Government will not be prepared to rescue our allies in South Afghanistan, even if Norwegian forces received such help from their allies in Meymaneh in February 2006. Does the Center Party share my concern for Norway's credibility as an alliance partner?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e627	I can confirm that the Central Party has a solid NATO position. With regard to the current situation in Afghanistan, the view of the Central Party is that we have got a question about whether we can participate in the Kabul area, with an additional military force. We've agreed to that. The problem and – to say – the situation that may arise are solved by the signal given from the Government to NATO: if there is a certain impossible situation, this question should be returned to the Government and decided there – and I believe that the Government is able to find a good and sensible solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e640	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e643	Norway’s announced contribution of 150 soldiers — special forces — to Afghanistan was welcomed in NATO, which was badly in need of reinforcements. But then it turns out that there are geographic limitations to the contribution. The Norwegian Special Forces shall be stationed ‘in the Kabul region and not in any other part of the country, including in the south’, as it is called. The government was first ambiguous at this point. The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs were not fully in agreement as to how strict this bond should be. Prime Minister Stoltenberg therefore had to clean up. Yesterday he made it quite clear here in Stortinget that forces could not easily be relocated to the south. Any redeployment must be approved by the Government. The coalition partner SV, whose leader is Kristin Halvorsen, insisted yesterday that it is not appropriate for the government to send soldiers to the south. We are left with the impression that even in a crisis situation where NATO forces in the south urgently need our help, it is not given that our soldiers will be able to rescue our allies. In addition, the use of special forces is surrounded by secretaries in NATO. NATO has never told us how large the forces in Afghanistan are, nor exactly where they are stationed, nor what kind of action they are taking. Consequently, if NATO asks for Norwegian special forces to South Afghanistan, it will have to do so without Norwegian public knowledge. The Defence Manager shall have indicated that if the SV's position is the Government's position, he will have to say no to send Norwegian Special Forces to Kabul. The left looks seriously at this. At the NATO summit in Riga at the end of November 2006, all NATO Heads of State and Government agreed that their forces in Afghanistan could be sent to all parts of the country in a crisis situation. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg himself agreed to adopt this. The government is now adding up to an asymmetry that is in the long run unsustainable. Norwegian forces received assistance from Allied forces when they were hard pressed in Meymaneh, northern Afghanistan, in February 2006. However, we should not necessarily come to their rescue if they need our help, for example. in the context of the Taliban's announced spring offensive. SV has a kind of veto right in this case, and this is about an existing question for the Government. This shows how weak the government's security policy base seems to be. To survive, it must go along with our credibility as NATO ally and weaken the broad consensus on security policy that has served Norway as well in the post-war period. We are thus living in a sort of security-policy state of emergency, where a junior partner in the government is able to provide heavy leadership for our security policy – towards an expressed majority here in Stortinget. I would like to point out to SV that if we have to relocate the Norwegian Special Force to the south, it is not about going into any long-term offensive operation or continuing the US’s ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation that is hunting at Bin Laden. It's about getting allies to rescue. In other words, it's about alliance solidarity. I would also like to remind you that this is not the war of NATO, but an operation that the United Nations has asked NATO to carry out. NATO has a unique mandate from the UN, an organisation like SV and all of us in this House support. NATO is thus carrying out this mission on behalf of the world community. In other words, the discussion about sending Norwegian forces to Afghanistan is not between those who want peace and those who do not. It focuses on how the world community can help to give Afghans a living life and promote stability and peace in a troubled corner of the world. I agree that there is no unilateral military solution to the conflict in Afghanistan. However, I am sure that we need to invest in integrated operations with a military, humanitarian and developmental element. This applies both in northern Afghanistan and in southern Afghanistan. I want to give the government credit for having contributed to lifting up the humanitarian element in NATO, which it has also done in the past. However, this should not be anything behind the government. I believe that we should all take on board the seriousness of sending young people into sharp and dangerous assignments. This aspect must not be forgotten in the name of discussion. We're not discussing distant and abstract sizes, but relationships that can be crucial for a wide range of individual creatures, both for those directly affected, and for their relatives. The backbone of the last few days’ discussion on Norwegian strength contributions is that the outcome of NATO’s efforts in Afghanistan will help to determine what kind of NATO we will have in the future. If NATO succeeds in Afghanistan – and they must – I imagine a global player who promotes peace and security and who can take on a similar mission to the UN. Otherwise, the threshold for out of area operations will be significantly raised, which could pave the way for a significantly less controlled expansion of power. I am thinking here of major powers not associated with NATO, and regional actors with their own agendas. I assume that no one in this room, nor in SV, wants such a development. I see the Mecca agreement as a very happy development in an area where there has been a long way between the good news. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the host country Saudi Arabia and all the others who have contributed to the agreement. It has started a very positive, but fragile process. Much indicates that the references in the agreement to the three requirements of the Quartet before recognising a Palestinian government are too weak. These requirements are to refrain from violence, to recognise Israel and to respect agreements previously concluded. In order to provide a viable basis for a joint government and to be recognised by Israel, the United States and other key actors, the government statement to be drawn up in the next few weeks should be clearer as to whether it will comply with these requirements. The Left therefore believes that a certain pressure should be maintained on the parties to negotiate this government statement. At the same time, we expect Israel too to comply with agreements and central UN resolutions. Israel should further stop the annexation of Palestinian land and remove the anti-national wall inside Palestinian territory. These are the demands that the Quartet has made to Israel. Last but not least, we expect Israel to refrain from violence. I hope that the United States, Israel and President Abbas will do what they can to follow up the opportunities offered by the Mecca Agreement, in the context of the planned meeting on 19 February. Then they intend to start new peace negotiations. If they don't, it can take a long time for a similar opportunity to come back. I'll end up with the northern regions. The government has announced that the northern regions are its main strategic focus. This helps to focus on a neighbourhood and meets with a criticism that Norwegian foreign policy has concentrated too much on areas and issues far away from Norway. The government has contributed to the emergence of concepts such as ‘strengthening sovereignty’ and ‘promoting our interests’ in our foreign policy vocabulary. This testifies to a desire to act more as a real political actor in the northern regions. The Left wishes to welcome such an approach. Russia’s military strength building will help to ensure that the military dimension of the northern regions is not only focused on monitoring sovereignty and resources in the region but also on promoting Russian major interests far beyond the northern regions. Our relationship with Russia should therefore be based on cooperation and firmness. I believe that Russia should initially be seen as a partner, and that we should be very careful to draw out old enemy images, but I would stress that we should say clearly from the point of view of human rights in Russia, without going to school for our financial interests. Finally, in the middle of the discussion on our neighbourhoods, we must not forget the human suffering in Darfur and Sudan and the efforts Norway must make in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e690	The debate on European policy earlier this week revealed that the opposition parties have sent an address to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the Services Directive. In this respect, I would like to ask the representative Larsen what the view of the Left on the Services Directive is. Is it the case that the Left supports the amendments introduced by the European Parliament, or is the Left still behind the consultation opinions given by the Bondevik II Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e695	The left is currently behind the measures that we have been behind. I don't want to elaborate on it any further. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e701	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e704	I would like to thank you for a good debate and interesting articles. I want to return to the starting point for Afghanistan, namely the fact that there is agreement and consensus in this room on Norwegian ISAF participation. A significant contribution has increased. We want 700 women and men in Afghanistan after the decision to send a special force unit to Kabul. It is a significant contribution. Norway was early out with the answer to NATO, and it has been valued widely. So I want to underline and clear up some of the things that I feel the opposition is doing to create unnecessary doubts about when they in several posts here today have shown that during the crisis in Meymaneh last year, our allies Norway came to the rescue, and they have asked the government questions by saying that the special forces are going to be in Kabul. NATO has a complete system of relief in Afghanistan – called QRF, Quick Reaction Force – in different senses. Norway has such a responsibility today in northern Afghanistan that they will be able to escape across the region. Those who came to Norway's rescue last February were just Dutch and British from this element. It's important to make it clear. Norway has also said that when we answer yes to the request to send special forces to Kabul, they will do the job in Kabul — not elsewhere. If they are to be moved, Norway must be consulted. I want to challenge each party in the opposition to respond to whether they would have arranged differently. Would they have said that the forces can be relocated — to the south, east, north or west — without consulting Norway? It would have been clarifying to know. Norway has said that when we place the forces on mission in Kabul, that's where they're going to do the job. So we want to know if the opposition would take a different position. So the question is, does there arise a crisis situation, an emergency situation, in the neighbourhoods, where NATO would want to use these elements, some of the soldiers, is the answer, first of all, that there is a hypothetical issue. But let me say that if forces are attacked and there is an urgent need for a rescue action, Norway stands up. Norway helps people in distress, if necessary. There's something quite different than moving or repositioning the force. We've clearly expressed that. And in both cases Norway shall be consulted. And let me underline: The responsibility, as the representative of the Høybräten also says, by sending out soldiers is great, and all soldiers – women and men – and their superiors and families should know that nothing is more important to us than their security. It is reflected in the equipment they carry, in the way they are protected, and also in the way they are trained. In that way, I know that those who are now traveling are the absolutely best trained. That's why I want to tell the representative of Solberg that when she says that the restriction is contrary to the NATO spirit, I'm taking a strong distance from it. If that were the case, half of the ISAF would be against the NATO spirit. Other countries have put complex restrictions of a different nature on their participation. I want to say that Norway is very clear about what we've done. We have said that there have been no restrictions on the forces that have been in the north, and in the case of Kabul power, it has to solve a mission, and we say it has to solve the mission there. If something else becomes relevant, Norway must be consulted. So Erna Solberg asked again about being our ‘friends’ friend’ and that I hadn’t been quite clear about talking so much about the United States. It was also Høglund concerned about. The United States doesn't have to be mentioned in every account to know what's quite obvious. I also used a section on it in my presentation last year, and it's obviously just as strong this year. I quote: ‘We have our anchoring in NATO, which is a key element of Norwegian foreign policy, our close ties with Nordic countries and European countries through the EEA Agreement and other arrangements and close friendship and cooperation with the United States.’ And I'm adding: as our most important ally in NATO. But we also have to look at this in a time that's changing. It's almost that you can get the impression that countries that have different values than us, we're not going to go close. I put a lot of emphasis on how we now need to build new networks towards other parts of the world, in other regions, which can benefit us – in the WTO, in the UN, and I am moving forward a country like Indonesia, with which we have now had a very exciting development in cooperation. There are considerable differences between Indonesia and Norway, but Indonesia is a very important player that Norway has to deal with politically, when it comes to environmental policy, etc. It's those countries that don't share our values, we need to pay attention to trying to influence in our direction. Then to the Middle East. We haven't given carte blanche to a Palestinian assembly administration. I have been asked a lot about this, but I can tell you what I have said so many times I remember: this agreement in Mecca opens the way for normalization of the connections. And if the principles of the Mecca Agreement are reflected in a government statement, Norway believes that we should be able to resume economic and political relations. We may say it more clearly than the European Union and the United States as well as the United States, but I know that many EU countries have the same attitude. France was out the day after us and said that this government had to be recognised. And now I want to say to those who think -- let me just take it as a parentheses -- that Norway couldn't have had that profile if we were a member of the EU. That's also a hypothetical question. But I would remind you that the closest cooperation partner with Norway here is Spain, a member of the EU, who has a foreign minister with a past as the EU representative in the Middle East. He says the same thing as us, and he does it inside the EU and gets access to that network. It's not important. Hamas has moved, yes. But it's not Hamas we're going to say yes or no to, it's a collection government. And I don't know if I'm going to draw the parallel too far, but we're dealing with a government in Norway – with a Soria Moria statement, a government statement, and not everything in the programs or platforms of the three parties. And I think we've enjoyed that. We're looking forward to such a government coming into place. There are hundreds — if not thousands — of reasons why this should not happen, and reports in the last few days show once again that internal conflicts on the Palestinian side may be among the most demanding things to do. We're not allowed to be the tongue of the scale that makes this more difficult, when there's now a hope set in motion. I would also like to point out to Shimon Peres, who, in meeting ambassadors in Israel yesterday, said that there is no need to press new statements from Hamas in connection with the new assembly government. That's an attitude I share. As far as the northern regions are concerned, I will be allowed to give tribute to the representative Høybräten for the role he plays in the Nordic Council. We have got a new drive there, with a Norwegian President, and we have the opportunity, by playing on a team, which I perceive we are doing in this matter, to have a line between what we are doing in the various regional forums – the Arctic Council, the Nordic Council, the Baltic Council, the Barents Cooperation – and not least what the Højbrätten emphasises towards the European Union and the European Parliament: putting our mark on the Nordic dimension there. It'll be important. Then I have to complain to the representative, Höglund, that he hardly has a very responsive representative in me when it comes to putting us on a strategy where we are going to buy support for what we can offer in other areas. I said in my foreign policy statement that Norway's personality as a state is changing because we are important in the field of energy, because we are important in the field of resources, because we are important in a wide range of areas. In this way, policies are also affected. It is clear that other countries listen to Norway in a different way based on how we also have things to offer them. But I think that if we, a country with our location, with our resources, with our geography, start to shop and say that this number of cubic meters of gas is going to be worth a concession on that and that question, we get into a dangerous situation. Moreover, Norway is not left alone in the north. Our administrative practices are firmly anchored in international law, as I stated in my statement. Nor is it true that who is entitled in such contexts is determined by who gets the most outrage in some kind of opinion measurement. Countries pursue their interests in these issues and emphasise the arguments that build up most under them. Norway is intervening with all the key actors here, with close dialogue, where, of course, we are also engaged in linking alliances and binding countries up to what should be our primary views. So the representative asked Høybråten a question about Kashmir. I'm glad he did it, because it's a very central theme that comes a little bit in the shadow. This area is close to Afghanistan, as we know, and the conflict is in no way inconsistent. Here, these internal contradictions between ethnic groups mean that many people do not respect the borders — whether it is at the border of Pakistan against Afghanistan or it is at the border with Kashmir. I had the opportunity to discuss this thoroughly during my visit to India and Pakistan before Christmas. As far as the peace process is concerned, the two countries now agree on a bilateral track. It's positive. Norway supports it. The two prime ministers and also President Musharraf have stressed that it should be a bilateral track, and that is not to say the wish of a third party. But that doesn't mean that we can't get involved, follow up and be ready to support both in the field of human rights and if there are political processes to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e737	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e740	Only when it comes to buying gas – it will be on the account of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I was not at all concerned that we were going to use energy supplies that way. Back to Afghanistan. Whether we agree to be able to consult, and that the government must be able to have the last word – yes, of course. That's not what's going on. The problem arises when one of the party leaders, who is in government, says that in such an enquiry the answer is no. The Minister of Foreign Affairs now presents it as if it were almost an open question — if such an enquiry were to occur, it would be assessed. It is a natural approach, and I support the approach of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But can the Foreign Minister now confirm that such an assessment is completely unnecessary? Such an enquiry is unnecessary, for the answer is given, the answer is no. Some other answers will be the death of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e747	I think it's important to say that if there's any question about relocating this force -- where you say it's now been three months in Kabul, so now it can be three months somewhere else -- the answer is no. Because the force has been sent to do a job in Kabul, and it is going to get its hands full. But that's this important shade: if an emergency, a crisis situation, or ally in distress – the kind of theme I repeat from my post – NATO has a broad set-up in Afghanistan to get rescued in such a situation. However, if forces are attacked, or there is an urgent need for rescue action, Norway is preparing. Norway helps people in distress, if necessary. But again, the government will take a final decision on this – and it must do so quickly if such a situation should arise. But it is important to draw a distinction between that and the question of whether to reposition such a strength. There, the Government – and the Minister of Finance – have given an answer that I am behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e752	The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that he had said last year's statement that we have a good and close relationship with the United States, so it says this year too, although it is not mentioned. I think maybe we should mention who our friends are a little bit more often, and we have to be able to express it in a better way. What's the main question, and that's been the last two days, is to clarify what situations we can actually help our friends in NATO. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now saying is something other than the Prime Minister answered yesterday's Question Time. The scenario I drew for the Prime Minister in yesterday's Question Time was precisely if in an emergency you could move on the forces and help. The Prime Minister said first that you couldn't, and when he was pressured, he said that, yes, we could help them in the north, that is, we could help the North, but we shouldn't necessarily help others. Is this the position that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now expressing, the Government's position? Is that also the position SV has in the government, so that the veto issued yesterday by the Minister of Finance is not a veto?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e761	It's also been necessary to clean up the notion of the opposition here, that the kind of action that was in Meymaneh is of the kind of strength that we're now sending. It is necessary to say that there is a full call-out device for that type of crisis, it has been necessary to clarify it here today. Yesterday it was also necessary to say that going into hypothetical problems here we are today, February 15th, and yesterday, February 14th, there is no way. But what I'm saying now is a perfectly obvious attitude to this. That's what NATO knows, that's what the government is behind. And what is common to all situations surrounding any other use of this force is that Norway needs to be consulted – the Government will take such a decision. When it comes to attitudes, and when it comes to emergency situations, allies and others know that Norway is setting up, and they can trust it. It is not the impression that is created, that the strength should be able to be relocated and circulated elsewhere in Afghanistan. We're not adding up to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e768	Let me first thank the Foreign Minister for his positive attitude that Norway can contribute both politically and humanitarianly to the conflict in Kashmir. Then to Afghanistan. I must allow myself, if it is lawful, to advise the Minister of Foreign Affairs to blame the opposition for the mess that has been created around Norway's attitude to this increase in strength, is to set up a smith's nest. It is the government itself that, through changing statements from Tuesday to Wednesday, and to this day, has created ambiguity. The opposition's obvious duty is to ask the questions necessary to clarify what the Government believes. Now the Foreign Minister says something that I am pleased with, namely that Norway should of course be informed and consulted in the usual way in NATO, but that the forces in emergency situations can be moved. Norway then stands up. And I assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs here and now can confirm that the Government is behind what the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now saying to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e777	I can of course confirm that the Government is behind what the Foreign Minister is now saying. But I want to add, to the representative Højbräten, that the government will take responsibility for making clear what our position is. But I assume that he also realizes that I have to charge it when the representatives Larsen, Høybräten and Solberg today point out that the British and Canadian rescue to Meymaneh last year is in the same category as if elements of Norwegian special forces in Kabul were to be sent out in a similar situation. They moved out of a completely different starting point, for it was their fixed mission, such as our QRF, Quick Reaction Force, today has that kind of responsibility in Mazare-Sharif for the whole belt in the north. I felt it necessary to say that, because I think it was created an unnecessary doubt about it through those posts. But of course, and I believe that this has been grounded all along, that this needs to be assessed in an emergency. It is hypothetical to consider which cases it may be, but in any case Norway should be consulted first and decide. It is fully understood and satisfied with by the Secretary-General of NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e786	The left fully shares the foreign minister’s hope attached to the Mecca agreement – but it is a small one. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his introduction that Hamas, through the Mecca Agreement, has committed itself without reservation to the agreements concluded with Israel on behalf of the Palestinian people. The basis for these agreements is the Palestinian recognition of the State of Israel. Yes, there is mutual recognition there. However, it has been suggested from different quarters that the references in the agreement to the three requirements of the Quartet before recognising a Palestinian assembly government are too weak. These requirements are to refrain from violence, to recognise Israel and to respect agreements previously concluded. Much may indicate that the new Palestinian Assembly government should be given a viable foundation and recognised by the United States, Israel and other actors, the government statement should be clearer as to whether these requirements will be met. In such a situation, should not Norway then maintain some pressure on the parties to negotiate the Government Declaration? And more specifically, shouldn't the government wait to suggest a collective government full recognition of the content of the government statement is clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e793	I believe that we have clearly said that we need to see such a government come into place. We have to see the government basis unfold before we make our final decision. But we have to send a signal in a broken process. It was shown here that we have to wait for what the Quartet means. No, Norway is not waiting for the Quartet. We have the freedom to say what we want and mean. We are not locked up by this very important group of countries, as the Quartet is. So you can choose to say, Is that good enough, or is it not good enough? I choose to say that when you talk about “honour and agreement”, and you refer to past agreements where the parties have mutual recognition and choose to follow a political trail and not violence, it reflects the demands that we and the international community have made. But we've also said that it's important to meet them, because I think it's possible with text analysis and nice pen to sit to the last day and say that that decimal and that dot is not as it should be. Then there will never be peace. Then there will be chaos, and then we will lose another chance, which may be fragile, but which we have to seize.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e803	I think I'm going to choose to whine a little bit of that the Foreign Minister is now trying to blame the opposition, all the time the Government has changed its position five, six times only in three days on this issue. I think everyone understands that this is not the opposition's fault. But I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to clarify this so-called emergency situation, because it can mean a pure campaign, a situation in southern Afghanistan, to which SV is now clinging as a reason that they have accepted to send forces to Kabul. If this emergency occurs in South Afghanistan, and Norway is asked to set up, are we going to do so? Or is it the veto that SV issued yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e810	If it's about moving or repositioning the Norwegian force that's been asked to come to Kabul and that's coming to Kabul, we've said that that answer is no. I have today stressed that if an emergency occurs — we can spend a long time on hypothetical cases and examples of this — where NATO allies would need help, Norway has as its basic position that we are preparing for rescue. We help people in distress if necessary. I can't go into long speculations about it. Of course, this applies throughout the country, and it is the government that has to make the decision. But I just have to be allowed to say: I have not blamed the opposition, but I have stressed that the opposition on three occasions today has given an image of what it means to come to relief, which omits the central facts, the facts that it is important to send to parents, relatives and friends of Norwegian soldiers who now get the impression that there is no such element in NATO's setup. I see that the representative Jensen is still whining – I don't, because this is serious. The majority of the Norwegian soldiers are actually set up for such a mission: to be able to get others to rescue them. And when there's uncertainty about it, I've wanted to clarify it, don't give the opposition any responsibility other than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e817	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e820	The Foreign Minister says that parents and close family of our soldiers can be reassured. No, we parents who have sons who have been soldiers in Afghanistan, as my son has been a few times, are not reassured. I was shocked when I heard Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg yesterday make it very clear that our new forces in Kabul would be able to travel north and help Norwegian soldiers in distress, but that there was a difference between helping our own and helping others. I heard the Prime Minister say that! The Prime Minister is still the head of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and until the Prime Minister makes it clear, I do not actually rely on what the Foreign Minister has now tried to say about emergencies. It's not just the opposition that has misunderstood in the case. A large number of Norwegian newspapers have also misunderstood, and large parts of the Norwegian people, who have followed direct shipments from here, have also misunderstood. Prime Minister Stoltenberg was very clear, and Kristin Halvorsen – as party leader – and others in SV have said that they have veto, and that it is not possible under any circumstances to send soldiers to South Afghanistan. SV's principle of solidarity has been applied to the grain of the artist Roar Hagen in VG today. It says, "We just have to assist our own, and then we expect all the others to assist us." Not uncommon for SV to have that kind of solidarity. It's disappointing that yesterday the Prime Minister didn't make anything else very clear. I want to confide in the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the Stortinget, that when I was asked by my son – and we as parents had to give advice or come up with opinions – whether he should participate in Afghanistan, was one of the fundamental factors that made me say I thought he should, that it was a NATO exposure. I knew that if the department that my son led came in an emergency, they would get help from NATO allies from other countries. That's why it was a shock to hear the Prime Minister and some SVs yesterday. This is not just a question of politics. It's also a question of morality and attitude: one for all, all for one. It is the Government and the figures of the Government, in particular the Party of the Socialist Left, that have expanded their sense of solidarity here for everyone with whom we want a settlement – with the Prime Minister. So the Foreign Minister now says that if there is an emergency, we will set up – but Norway will be consulted. Let's get to the world of reality. If there's a phone call at Stavanger headquarters at 1:00. 03 a.m., with a request to deploy our forces elsewhere because there is an emergency and we have to save soldiers from other allied countries, is there going to be a government conference the day after SV says that we have to present this to our government, so that we can probably take 48 hours? Or – and that’s my question, which I want the Prime Minister to clarify – is the headquarters in Stavanger to have authority, as they have today, to take that decision, and say, when the phone comes, that yes, it’s okay, we’re giving directives to deploy our soldiers to help others in distress? The Minister of Foreign Affairs uses the words ‘Norway’ and ‘Government’. This hypothetical situation, like everyone else in defence, is known in advance. Then it is crucial what powers you have given to both the lieutenant, captain, captain, general or headquarters. It is not time for a government to discuss it. The government must discuss the hypothetical situation and give the necessary powers. Will the headquarters be authorised to send not only those responsible for protection, who do have that job, but also our special forces, which are much better trained, to rescue the forces of other countries in an extreme situation, regardless of where it is available in Afghanistan? Will such authority be granted? I hope the Prime Minister can clarify it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e835	I'm not going to be as dramatic as the previous speaker. I would just like to make it quite clear at the outset what the Minister for Foreign Affairs did clearly several times in his speech and in his reply, that the force that is now being sent to Kabul is going to be in Kabul. So it's not going to be stationed anywhere else, and we're not going to move forces anywhere else. However, it does not rule out that if there is an urgent need for a rescue operation, and let me repeat it, if the forces are attacked, if our allies are attacked and there is an urgent need for a rescue operation, of course we do. This applies regardless of the country's strengths. I think the Foreign Minister actually expressed it so that we help, of course, 'people in need'. The kind of concrete situation that Carl I. Hagen took up, you solve when they occur. Then I would like to stress that the world community has a responsibility to ensure both stability and development in Afghanistan, which has been held both by warriors and by the Taliban terrorist regime. Norway must be a driving force in its efforts to coordinate long-term assistance with projects that deliver visible results and improve people’s standard of living and living. It may also be that the opposition should be a little more aware of. This must also be done in a way that strengthens the authority and credibility of the Afghan government. We need to focus on both institution building, schools, well-being and, not least, women-settled measures. The Taliban in its time destroyed the basis for all the development of women’s opportunities. Afghan women continue to be worse off than before the Taliban. Here, Security Resolution 1325 must be actively used, as was also underlined by Mr Ågot Valle. Development also depends on safety and stability. Now that Norway is sending this Special Forces Department to secure the Kabul area, it represents an important part of our total involvement in Afghanistan. The aim of the Taliban is, of course, to rock government control, government authority and government credibility. The destabilisation of the metropolitan area is part of such a strategy. We contribute both to our presence at the airport in Kabul and by sending the new strength contribution. We help people to feel safer, so that infrastructure and development projects can continue as well. Then we should be aware that the capital area is now perceived by NATO as particularly vulnerable. We're part of the alliance that's made these assessments. The soldiers we send, representing beautiful Norwegian young men and women in Defense, we send within the mandate given to this government by the Soria Moria Declaration. We contribute to the development of Afghanistan both by civil and by ensuring law and order. And so let me add one thing, as I've said from this pulpit before by various crossroads where we've been dealing with international operations: when the Norwegian Uprising sends out forces in international operations – and it's a co-consistent magnification that's doing it now – then they need to know that we're behind them. It doesn't matter to be politicians and say, "Yes, we're sending forces now, but unfortunately, if something happens that we don't like, we're not behind them." I don't think that's a good idea. We're going to be behind the young people we're sending out in international operations, whether it's to Afghanistan or, if we're going to have to send forces to an area that might be much more difficult, to Sudan. So let me make a very brief point at the end of the day, something quite different that no one has been involved with before today, but as the Foreign Minister mentioned in the statement, namely the question of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. I'm assuming we'll come back to that on another occasion. But let me show you that in a publication that NUPI came with a few months ago, it's quite clear that the nuclear disarmament is standing still. There's no movement. Most importantly, the Norwegian initiative of 2005, following the total failure and the near collapse of the supervisory conference for the non-proliferation agreement in the same year, is the Norwegian initiative. At the request of the UN Secretary-General, Norway collected six other countries. This is an initiative that requires laborious work. It'll take time. But both the previous government and the current government are doing a great job here – and I hope the government will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e850	Initially, I agree with the representative Nybakk that the forces we send out deserve our unanimous support, as the decision has been in this last case. But I think they also deserve to the greatest extent a clear mandate and clear commitment rules, and that is what we are calling for. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was so far within the WTO and said that it was little new to report. But there were clear political signals about getting started, and Norway will support that. I want to link a few comments to the WTO. That the Doha negotiations have stranded is bad for Norway, but it is bad for the developing countries. Sooner or later, the negotiations will start again, and then it is obvious that the countries of the Third World will act even more coordinatedly than before. And why? Well, because they have problems with agricultural breakthroughs and the requirements they have there. It seems obvious that at the end of the day we will have to adapt, whether this is done in the last few minutes before the Americans' negotiating mandate ebbs out into the summer, or at a later date. It will mean concessions in the agricultural sector, but recovery in trade and exports, which will also include services, for example: shipping, telecommunications, IT and finance. Allowances for defensive interests in the agricultural sector can mean more EU-adapted agriculture, less aid for production, more aid per year. use, and a significantly faster conversion than we have been used to before. On the Right, we are prepared to grant concessions to promote our offensive trade interests. We exported fish to 150 countries in 2005 to the value of the next 32 billion kroner – with the EU as the largest market. China and Russia are growing, and now we are also finally seeing signs that the US will re-evaluate the customs duties from 1989 by 20 pst. in Norwegian fresh salmon. At the time, the market share was 60 pst. Today it's 5 pst. Without international rules, it'll be difficult for us. What we expect now is for the Government to present a coordinated approach to how we reconcile our offensive and defensive interests, and how, on the one hand, we will meet the challenges and the changes in the defensive fields and, on the other hand, we will take advantage of the opportunities we can see in the offensive areas. If Norway is to contribute to getting the negotiations further and in port, we must also further develop our own negotiating position. Here we're waiting to see what the government wants, and not least what it's capable of. Then to the Middle East. Several have been involved in the Mecca agreement as a positive step in the Middle East. Both Palestinian parties have taken a step together here, away from the abyss in which they were dragging each other down. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that heavy donor countries can have a certain influence on getting a piece of paper to become a practical policy. But I disagree with the Foreign Minister's analysis that Hamas has committed itself without reservation to all the agreements concluded by the PLO, and thus met the Quartet's three demands for non-violence, acceptance of Israel and acceptance of previously concluded agreements. The UN, the EU and the United States have not agreed on this. One might wonder what got the Foreign Minister to go a little further in Hamas' direction than any other Western government. I hope it was a thorough analysis of international law and Palestinian policy, and not a thorough analysis of the internal medical needs of the Norwegian left-hand side for the time being. I hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs saying today that Norway is not locked inside the Quartet. This is true, but as the chairman of the donor country group, Norway should be bringing together, and it is hardly a useful move to deal with the Quartet before you have concluded. Regardless of agreements, the fundamental problem, namely the lack of recognition between the parties, is not overcome. It does not hold to indicate an asymmetric recognition from 1993. My appeal to the Government is to contribute to the new Palestinian Assembly government and Israel coming with a new and explicit mutual recognition of each other as a people, with the right to independent state. Without such a foundation, it is difficult to imagine that some political agreements or processes can be built. Then, on the Palestinian side, it will be important to have a clear declaration of government. For our part, it will then be important to re-establish contact and financial support in due time, to get political concessions that lead to rewards in the form of improved economy, which will lead to better conditions for the population, and which, hopefully, will put pressure on political leadership to take new initiatives for the final negotiations with which we want to move forward. If one can do this, it's because one has the power to give the moderate forces the take over in the tough internal negotiations, and precisely stimulating the moderate reform-willing forces of many of these Muslim countries is probably a underdeveloped sign of Western policy towards the region. The right hope the Government will take the necessary time in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It is tempting to be in front of the process, but the results are more important than the self-markings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e878	I wonder, as an SV, I have to explain to the opposition how NATO actually works, because in today's debate it has an implication, a little doubt about how NATO works. It may seem that the opposition believes that NATO is asking Norway to get strengths to Kabul, but what one has actually thought is to get them to the south. One of the indications is that these forces are not needed in Kabul. I would have liked it not to have been necessary for them in Kabul, but unfortunately, four to five years of military presence has shown that it is still necessary. We have been in Kabul before, in a sector central to the city, but we have not yet succeeded. We don't have a target. But why is the opposition running so hard to believe that NATO is asking for something they don't need? I really wonder about that. Then ask a further question: if an emergency occurs, is it that the government will refuse anyone to operate a rescue operation? Of course it's not like that. Then we have to be aware that last year NATO got three times no from Norway. Two were political, one was direct from FOHK, at Jan Reksten, who also represented Hagen on the previous debate. The foundation of the Racsten Racsten was that moving our forces to the north, to the south, was not militaryly defensive. No one should be in doubt that there are both political and military reasons like one – situation-determined – all the time must be in the back of the mind. It's not that NATO asks for help, has the strength in Kabul for three weeks and says, "Eda beda, we should actually have them to the south." So unprofessional is not NATO. I want to ask the opposition to notice that. The Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed several issues in his statement. One of them, which I experienced as the most interesting, was the connection between energy and climate. I want to go on and on and see what consequences it has for security in Norway. The most obvious signal we're now getting from the United States is that the neoliberal period where ebbs begin to ebb. We see that we may have received an ‘iracification’ of Afghanistan. But it seems that this period ebbs out, especially articulate through Hillary Clinton, who in his dialogue with the American people plainly and clearly says: we must try to get out of Iraq. We have to try to put an end to the fact that the United States is dependent on foreign oil. What's in this? Well, that's the same thing as when the European Parliament says we have to get alternative energy sources up. Of course, Norway is a careful supplier of energy, but we also have to do something ourselves. We know that much of this debate has gone on in what Russia has done to e.g. Ukraine, where one has used energy as a political power. This is a situation that we'll see that there might be more of. We need to make sure that we're forced to take out more oil equivalents than we might even want from an environmental point of view. This is best known to former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, who, of course, would not take up so many oil equivalents, because he saw what kind of consequences it would have for the public budget. They would go straight up. He got right! After that, we've got a party, a politician who's been articulating just this: we have money, let's give them to the people. Let's do even more oil equivalents. What the former right-leader has also seen in retrospect, since he was prime minister, is that it can create enormous environmental problems if we are too fast and do not manage these resources in a good way in relation to the climate challenge. I just think this is going to be more and more topical. We saw it last in the Riga meeting – it was discussed there. Climate and energy will need to be discussed more. Norway will be very up-to-date here, because we're sitting on the huge resources. Finally, what surprises me the most is that as an SV, I have to bring here the fact that there are many debates in NATO. NATO is not a static organisation. NATO has a lot of debates going on. Not least, I would like to stress the last time they had, in Seville, just what the NRF – NATO Response Force should be used for: Yes, of course, the first and best military credo, that is to say, to bring freedom from fear. It applies equally to civilians as soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e893	Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre expressed in his thorough and multifaceted statement ‘the concern that so many other agendas come under the shadow of the flood light on terror’. It's hard to disagree with such a statement. The Minister devoted much of his intervention to some key conflict areas. I also noticed that he pointed to some important common denominators for these conflict areas, including the need to create dialogue and commitment. It is vital that we never give up our faith in the dialogue and commitment as the real weapons of foreign policy. The conflict in Afghanistan has, of course, received considerable attention. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also went on to draw a ‘belt of related individual conflicts’ as he expressed it — from Afghanistan via the Middle East to the Horn of Africa. There are also other conflict belts, and I also feel the need to bring forward a conflict area that is geographically in the opposite direction, namely the conflict line between the nuclear powers of Pakistan and India. In the middle of this conflict line is Kashmir like a ticking bomb. And I am very pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs commented on this in response to questions from my party leader, Dagfinn Høybräten. If you can talk about a conflict that has ended up in the ‘shadow of the flood light’ to use the foreign minister’s words, it is this one. Former President Bill Clinton called the conflict area Kashmir "the world's most dangerous area". It goes without saying that this conflict should once again call on both our attention and that of the rest of Europe. Recently we read an interview in the Evening Post with the famous British top expert on defense policy, Chris Donnelly. The expert drew up a line from the Mediterranean coast to the border of India in the interview. This characterised him as the region that ‘is the leading supplier of uncertainty in today’s world’. He stressed most strongly the need for stabilisation in Pakistan in order to prevent the country from collapsing or being taken over by extremist rulers. Kashmir was not mentioned specifically, but we know, as Støre also stressed, that there is an unresolved problem here that the world community must soon help to find a solution. The story of Kashmir is a story of the division of people and families, of assaults, natural disasters, poverty, and incomprehensible suffering. A short time ago, central Kashmiri politician Mirwaiz Omar Farooq Stortinget visited and left a strong impression of the need to increase the pressure on the authorities, in particular the Indians, in order to promote an effective dialogue that could contribute to a solution in the area. If Norway, through the channels available, can help to keep pressure up so that the dialogue between the two nuclear powers becomes constructive, we will not only help to relieve the burdens on the millions of people living there, but also contribute to the stability of a very dangerous conflict corner. The conflict between Pakistan and India represents a number of challenges. One of them is also the energy deficit in the region. The discussions around a gas pipeline through Pakistan to India have pointed out that energy can also force counterparties to cooperate. This brings me to my second point: Foreign Minister Støre said that energy supply and energy security are at the heart of international relations. It is beyond doubt that Norway too will have to make important choices in the time that comes when we will be contributing to a sustainable future. Energy is the source of bitter conflicts, but can also create strong alliances. Recently, a report was produced by well-known researchers at the Business University of BI on behalf of the NHO entitled ‘Frem times Pictures 2030’ for Norway in a global world. ‘The aim is to provide perspectives for important long-term decisions that our society must take in the future.’ It is not time for a deep dive, but the report points to it, among other things. on what we knew, that wealth and happiness are not proportional sizes. Measurements of GDP per head capita is a misleading success criterion, among others: because the amount of money distributed is less than the amount of money evenly distributed. Human capital, our clearly most important resource, is not primarily strengthened by the increase in the supply of money. It must be strengthened and motivated by other values. In a globalised world, we need to be competitive in order to maintain and attract this attractive resource. Statoil just presented a record result, but cutting into the joy of updating the debate on our road choices. Oil extraction is becoming more expensive, the climate is getting warmer, and international oil production is raising ethical questions. The growing generation will experience a Norway without oil exports. What are we going to export? This report points to climate technology. Environmental technologies and renewable energy can be among our main competitive advantages. Choices of right values can give us competitiveness, international influence and can be peace-making. However, strategic choices are required now, long-term thinking, for the purpose of developing our human capital and our other resources with a view to a sustainable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e921	I'm going to throw over two geopolitical glances, and they're not simply hanging together. The first geopolitical look goes on from where the representative Lånke was. The neighbouring country of Afghanistan when we move east is Pakistan. Between Pakistan and India lies Kashmir. There are two nuclear powers, on which the Foreign Minister was involved, which are in a dialogue. I just want to stress the same thing that Mr Lånke mentioned, that that dialogue, to say it with an understatement, is important. They said in their time when it was the Soviet Union and the United States, that when the alarm went off, they had 15 minutes to think about. The minutes between New Dehli and the capital city of Pakistan are several times fewer. Clearly, the powder kegs we are facing are significant. I don't think Norway can magic, I don't think Norway can be a moral world police force, but where we can contribute in a way to ease the pressure, I would encourage it to happen. I understood it so that the Minister for Foreign Affairs left reflections on it. The second geopolitical perspective is the North. Here I simply miss the geopolitical assessment of the Government in the Foreign Minister's presentation. I see, on behalf of the Left, that the change in the geopolitical situation in the North will play a significant role in understanding the opportunity and challenges we face. It also means a great deal to the government's goal of making the Barents Sea a sea of cooperation. We can well see that the situation was one under the cold war, but we cannot fail to notice today that although we have had a cooperative spirit, it seems that some of it has begun to be emboldened by a pressure towards extracting natural resources, especially assumed large energy reserves and marine resources. That situation confronts us with very great challenges. I am of those who believe, and the Left believes it, that Norwegian requirements relating to the sovereignty of the fishing protection zone around Svalbard and the dividing line in relation to Russia in the Barents Sea are based on a solid basis of international law. Therefore, the Left also has the starting point that Norway should not have a view based on resource nationalism, but on the principle that it is the closest coastal State that is most suitable for establishing and managing sustainable resource management regimes. It is also true that by means of the Law of the Sea, Norway has been able to clarify the question of jurisdiction in the western part of the north. In the areas up to the North Pole, we are part of a broad and orderly multilateral process under the auspices of the United Nations Continental Soccer Convention. We'll get, literally, challenges when the ice melts and there's more sea – just to use that picture. So we all know that so far international law has not affected solutions that remain, for example. around Svalbard and in relation to Russia, in the Barents Sea. I know that the government is concerned about the questions, I just want to mention these dimensions. I have previously stressed from this speaker that it is very important for our position in the north that we update and keep a great deal of pressure on our legal science bet. It was that effort by the Norwegian side that 30 years ago gave us a significant position over the large seas. It is important to build on that tradition, renew it and keep a strong hold on it, because it means something to marine law, to administrative regimes and to environmental challenges. With regard to the situation in the north, the Left Government supports the policy of all measures to strengthen sovereignty and all capacities built to enforce Norwegian administrative and control regimes in the northern regions. I just want to stress briefly that it also means something to our defense, not only what we have in the air and what we have at sea, but also what we have in the defense of the country. I am of the opinion that, in relation to the Russian Federation, we should choose a cooperation line, but there should also be firmness in the cooperation line. No one should ever experience us as naive. I simply assume that the analysis that is now being carried out, among other things. The Swedish Defence Research Institute has presented as its assessment of the conditions of the Russian Federation, is part of the assessments that the Government is now making as it continues its Northern Territory Strategy, and a careful analysis of the scenarios presented here. I am aware that the scenarios created in the field of defence policy investigations that are going on in the government apparatus, but I would like to stress the importance that when heavy trade unions raise the issues that these people have done, I assume that it is taken seriously. Finally, I would like to stress, as other representatives have done, that we have a unique opportunity to play at the cooperation forums in the north. This concerns the Arctic Council, the Nordic Council with Dagfinn Høybråten as President, and also the interaction we can have with the EU. It's my impression that the government wants to play on it, and the Left wants to contribute to it. I would like to ask, even though the Arctic Council may have been asleep in many ways, that at least you evaluate it and use it for everything it's worth, because here you have a unique opportunity to make contact between the Nordic countries, the United States, Canada and the Russian Federation. These were some geopolitical reflections in a world that is troubled – from a representative who would like to think reflective thoughts, to a government council that has shown the ability to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e949	Initially, I will allow myself to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good and thorough account, which he held for the Storting two days ago. The debate following the presentation here today has been dominated by the fact that Norway has responded to NATO’s request to send around 150 soldiers to the Kabul region. I note that there is broad political support for this resolution. It is understandable that the decision to send special forces to Afghanistan is being debated, but also other important aspects of the presentation deserve attention in today’s debate. Before I move on to other issues, I would nevertheless like to comment on the quotations from yesterday's Question Time when the Prime Minister was present, which was used in the debate. If the purpose of the quotations is to find out what the Prime Minister actually said, it is important to quote completely. For the sake of completeness, I allow myself to add the following quote, which was the Prime Minister's answer to questions about what to do in a given crisis situation: ‘First of all, we have a force of effort, as it is called, in the north, which, if problems arise, is to be used as a relief, either for Norwegian forces elsewhere in the area or for the forces of other countries.’ Development in the Middle East is crucial. The possibility of a Palestinian assembly administration is present. President Abbas’ efforts to involve Hamas in government cooperation based on agreements concluded can be successful. It deserves the hard-tested Palestinian people. Now it is important that the world community supports this fragile process, as signaled by the Norwegian government. A Palestinian-side assembly government can hope to relaunch negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. No one has ever been able to point out any other way out of this than the negotiated route. The government's increased bet in the north has focused heavily on the possibilities, not on the constraints, in the north. Presence, activity and knowledge are key words in the Northern Territory Initiative of the Government. Energy is one of the strong driving forces for development in the north, but the bet in the north must be much more than petroleum activity. It is also necessary to focus on other industrial activities, not least environmental and climate issues, on cultural, health and educational cooperation. The focus of the Northern Region policy shall be on people. Better economic, social and cultural development must contribute positively to the viability of people living in the northern regions. Norway’s relationship with Russia develops along many contact surfaces. The number of crossings at the boundary station at Storskog in Finnmark may be one illustration. Passages have increased from approx. 8 000 in 1990 to 106 000 in 2006. Commercial and industrial activities between our two countries are growing. Russian fishing trawlers are maintained by shipyards in Kirkenes. An increasing number of Norwegian economic operators are establishing themselves in North-West Russia. Increased contact is positive and can be an important contribution to a gradual reduction in the formidable welfare gap we have in the north. Both economically, socially and healthily, living conditions are dramatically different in North-West Russia from Norway. While our relationship with Russia is a positive development through broad contacts, we see critical developments in the Russian society – it is about freedom of the press and organisation and the conditions of the judiciary and prison system, to mention something. This is a relationship we should not miss out on with the Russian authorities. Norway shall be a constructive partner to Russia. We shall cooperate with Russia on fisheries management, on nuclear clean-up and on petroleum. Better monitoring of fishing in the Barents Sea and maritime traffic along the Norwegian coast is a matter of urgency. There is no doubt that we are seeing changes in the world's climate. Yesterday we could read that Svalbard has broken the heat record three years in a row. Just the arctic strata will be particularly affected by emerging climate change. Researchers believe that the Arctic temperature rises may double the global average increase. It will affect the environment, the settlement and the living conditions of indigenous peoples in these areas. A Norwegian ambition must undoubtedly be to be a leading nation in research, in climate and in environmental research in polar regions. We have a proud tradition in these areas, which we must have as an ambition to carry on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e974	The Progress Party is pleased that the Government has now finally chosen to meet NATO's request to send special soldiers to Afghanistan. Of course, when NATO asks for strength, it is on the basis of a very clear need – and this time in the Kabul region. As I said, the party of progress is pleased that the government has complied with the request this time. What surprises us, however, is that the government just a few months ago could not meet NATO's request, as NATO had a great need for forces to South Afghanistan. The SV's manager said correctly yesterday on TV that this was an intermediate solution. It was a strange statement that I would appreciate if the Minister of Foreign Affairs could elaborate further. NATO is building its alliance on solidarity and loyalty to its allies. In a defence alliance, it is absolutely essential that they include supporting collective defence ideas. Norway’s defence is precisely based on the assurance that our allies in NATO will come forward if Norway needs allied support in the event of a crisis or war. The Norwegian defence largely reflects what is happening in NATO. In recent years, the defence has had a strong focus on training soldiers and other personnel to meet the challenges posed by NATO's new doctrine. For many years, Norwegian soldiers have gained experience in different areas of conflict and services. In general, Norwegian foreign and security policies have been relatively unison. Norwegian soldiers have always had a mass in their backs when they have been sent out of the country to participate in various military operations, under different commands and in different alliances and coalitions — even though SV in retrospect has created uncertainty about the needs of the forces. This has clearly undermined the mandate of the forces, as they have also stated, and has been perceived by the soldiers as unappreciated by their efforts. Of course, that's de motivating. The Progress Party is very concerned that Norwegian soldiers should understand that there is a solidly anchored mandate underpinning the decision to send them out of the country to discharge military missions. Furthermore, it is important that the mandate for the mission is ready before departure. As it has emerged in the media and in this room this week, it seems that within the Government it is not clear what kind of mandate and political moU underpinning NATO’s possible disposal of the Norwegian Special Forces. The fact that there is internal disagreement in the Government about this can make the situation of the soldiers concerned difficult. It is essential that mandates and other provisions are clarified before the soldiers travel, so that the soldiers have a clear framework to deal with. With regard to the Prime Minister’s statement in this Chamber that Norwegian soldiers cannot be disposed of by NATO in the event of a crisis outside Kabul, it is most alarming. As mentioned earlier, NATO's coalition is based on the principle that an attack on one partner is an attack on the alliance. It is therefore very unfortunate that the Prime Minister stated that Norwegian forces should not be set up to help allies in crisis situations anywhere — except Norwegians then. This is a kind of statement that needs to raise awareness in NATO circles. This opinion also contrasts with the Foreign Minister’s statement in Stortinget, where he said that the strength contribution would be deployed in the Kabul region, and not that they could not be disposed of elsewhere in Afghanistan as needed. The Minister of Defence also stated on live TV news that the Norwegian forces would not be subject to any special restrictions. It had to be understood that the forces could be disposed of as required by the commander-in-command also in South Afghanistan. This understanding has also been expressed several times by the representative of the Secretary-General of NATO in TV opinions. The mandate of the Norwegian forces in this matter has been at all served by a very messy and unbridled presentation. For many obvious reasons, it is very important that the mandate of the Norwegian forces is clear this time and that the Government is expected to do so as soon as possible. The staff is entitled to know what they are going to do, with the full confidence of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e991	I have to say it's with some wonder I've been following with the last three days on the government's apparent inability to understand that essentially they themselves have messed things up. The reason why the opposition has raised many questions is not least what the Prime Minister said yesterday – and then the quotation is different from what the Labour Party parliamentary leader gave. What he said was, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘If, for example: problems arise with Norwegian forces in Meymaneh, it is clear that problems occur differently from those in the south.’ Is it nice that the opposition reacts? And is it nice that we react when we hear all the different versions that different SVs gave in the debates yesterday? When there is so much confusion about this, it is not least because the statement itself was a huge button in this area – one or a few sentences. It has been necessary for the opposition to try to find out what it is and what it does not mean. And so it just came out gradually. Now I understood, after listening to the Minister for Foreign Affairs today, that in many ways he is correcting the Prime Minister as he appeared in the spontaneous question hour yesterday, and that is good. One of the reasons why we also raise questions is that what has been the issue of the opposition is in many ways well formulated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on previous occasions. I think, for example: What he said in the Stortinget on 24 October last year was very wise. There he said the following: ‘Norway also sets no limits on the type of contribution we can make. This also applies to the possible future deployment of Norwegian special forces.’ Very cleverly said. In NATO's advice less than three weeks ago, the following was said: We have no formal restrictions, and we want to adjust our presence to be as useful as possible. And further, we have to continue to be militarily prepared to deal with insurgents, wherever they are. Very right, very wise to say. And this could have accumulated a broad majority. It's an honest thing to be downhearted, and it's an honest thing to change, but maybe a little bit more transparency about it from the Government would have been right. But I fully support the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his version up to approx. Two weeks ago. I think this was right and wise to say, and this would give expression to the big picture as it is. And then maybe it's not the opposition that's going to give the corrections first. Perhaps the government would increase its credibility if they had just admitted what it is. When I began as rapporteur many years ago, my predecessor gave me the following advice: If you wonder what to say about a matter, you should consider saying it as it is. That's a advice I'd like to pass on. Otherwise, I would like to say the following about the civil assistance to Afghanistan: I am glad that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken up this issue again with such force as he has done, and I have given him credit for it. But when you listen to SV, you get the impression that it's almost a new agenda. When we heard Minister of Development Solheim here in Stortinget a few months ago, the impression was that he was now able to tell me about a new confession he had made before anyone else. The reality is that that's how we started. That was the whole Afghanistan exposure focused on in the first years, through the Bonn process and through the donor country conferences. We have to raise the question: why hasn't it gone anyway? Yeah, at least it's not NATO's fault. We can ask the question: is this the Afghan Government, is it the UN, is it the EU, is it the World Bank – who is responsible? But at least it's not NATO's fault, so you can get the impression when you listen to SV. But I am happy that you can find back to the original agenda. So I want to mention one thing that's completely outside of this, but that's actually a little bit on my heart. When I was a party leader once, I made a promise to get the best of fish, as it's called. It did so, among other things. I put a lot of effort into trying to get the legitimate shares of the resources to Norway, things that we had given away before. I am therefore very disappointed that the government has now thrown the cards and has not been willing to follow the long-term course that the previous government offered in order to get our legitimate shares of the herring resources. So now you've come to terms with the agreements that, of course, are considered grossly unfair in the industry. I think that's a shame. A little bit more endurance would have been a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1023	I'm glad we have a foreign minister like Jonas Gahr Støre. We in the north are especially happy in Jonas Gahr Støre for what he stands for, and because he focuses on the north areas in every context. On Tuesday, the most radical foreign policy presentation held in this room in recent times was held by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It's not random. This is because we have the most radical government in Europe. Thus, the foreign minister’s presentation is also radically and forward-looking – because SV is involved and forms Norwegian policies at present, including on the foreign policy level. I'm proud of that. Sometimes, however, it may be important for us SVs to stick their finger in the ground and see the realities in their eyes. On the last roll-up option, SV received barely 9 pst. by the votes cast. Still, we're part of a majority government, where we get a big impact every day and we can count small and big victories. We just have to get better at counting them. I am an impatient soul from Lyngen, but I still accept that the northern regions were not the central part of the Foreign Minister's statement – this being seen in the light of the current situation in Afghanistan and the Middle East. Nevertheless, the Foreign Minister's presentation was a good and forward-looking account for us in the north. There is an SV from the north when Støre takes so many important areas and issues into account here in Stortinget. The northern regions are close proximity. At the same time, it is one of the most important areas of Norwegian foreign policy. SV is pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a genuine commitment to the North and to North Norway and Svalbard as the Norwegian land and communities in the North. The most important capital and resource we have in the north is people – not the fish, not the gas, not the oil, not everything else that is mentioned in different contexts. It has been, it is, and it will be the people who are the most important resource in the north. Without a population with an inconvenient force of life in the north, Norway can hardly pursue a north-eastern policy. In the state budget of the year, appropriations for actions in the north increased by 270 million. kr. The further follow-up to the Northern Region Strategy will be high on the Government's agenda. The Northern Territory Strategy of the Government has many and important points – ranging from Arctic agriculture via oil and gas to green travel – and a broad commitment that promises well. I would particularly like to highlight two things the Foreign Minister mentioned in the statement on Tuesday. The first thing I want to mention is agreements and the fight against environmental crime. Last year, Norway reached agreement on the continental shelf and 200-mile zone boundary in the large sea area between Svalbard and Greenland. And we agreed with Iceland and Denmark/Faeroes on how to draw the boundary lines for the continental shelf outside of 200 nautical miles in the so-called Smuthavet in the Norwegian Sea. This is very important. This means that all significant unexplained borders in western seas are now clear. I also want to emphasise the work done by the Government, and the agreements that have been reached to ensure the management of fish stocks in our marine areas, now last of the spring-watering herring, which also wanders in the international waters of the Smutthole and the Smuttavet. It is important for the responsible resource management of living resources in accordance with the principles of the UN Agreement on Fisheries in the High Seas. It is an important starting point for the fight against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing and other environmental crime at sea, which are among the most serious challenges in our near seas. Another thing I want to highlight as our government has prioritised highly is the escalation of the Coast Guard. It will benefit the environment, the international community and the entire coastal population. We must wage war against the great environmental and resource crime at sea – that is important defence policy. I am also concerned that the building up of institutions in the country is continuing. This concerns the Barents Institute and the Barents Secretariat of the Church. This applies to educational commitments with an arctic perspective. In addition, we should have an indigenous university in cross-border cooperation. Energy from natural resources, substantial oil and gas, is a driving force for activities in the north, but not the main driving force, fortunately. The energy from the houses with light in – i.e. humans – is the main driving force for creating values and solving the challenges in the north. We have four countries and one indigenous people. In Troms we have at least three tribes meeting. To me therefore becomes one of the most important things Jonas Gahr Støre said, as follows: ‘Research, education and competence are key in the north. It should be Norway's hallmark that we are continuing a knowledge-based management based on pre-war approximation in our marine areas. The management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside of Lofoten enters into this tradition.» This is good SV music from the foreign minister. We need to invest in knowledge, and much more of this knowledge of the north should be developed in the region. When Norway is one of the largest participants in the International Polar Year, it is important that this is a bet that is well noticed in the northern part of the country – that the activity and knowledge building take place in the north of the people of the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1058	The message for a Palestinian assembly government to release Hamas government was met with anticipation, joy and – a little waiting – optimism. We really appreciate that the destructive power between Palestinian groups can end, and that the peace process with Israel can once again come to an end. At the same time, we have this a little bit of a waiting feeling, based on a lot of experience that so many times before was an identical one, and then something happened that moved the whole process back to start. There's little doubt that when we're there today, we'll be there, among other things. of the consistent attitude of the world community, with the so-called Quartet at its head, has had in its three claims for Hamas government: recognition of the State of Israel, removal from power and terror and acceptance of previously concluded agreements. Now we are waiting for the collection management to come in place, and for the message to be sent. In this situation, it is crucial to have ice in your stomach and not be overly volatile after accelerating that ‘this is going well’. There's no reason Norway should run solo games like a point. Unfortunately, the risk that it may work against its purpose is too great. In its foreign policy relations, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, among others, said: that it is important to involve social and religious groups in political processes. These are wise words. The religious dimension of the Middle East conflict is often underestimated. So here we welcome the Foreign Minister's line. There will be no peace in the Middle East without Israel’s sun - clear dishes being recognized. Hence, the recognition of the State of Israel and the country's right to safe borders is entirely decisive for a lasting peace in the region. For a long time, Norway has been working on a status of trusty peacemakers and conversation partners, with great confidence in both main armies in the conflict. This status requires, and I really hope that no grip is taken that weakens this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1075	In its foreign policy presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs put emphasis on three challenges. It was Afghanistan, the Middle East and the North. My contribution will be in a defence and security policy perspective, based on the major challenges we face in Afghanistan. The government's foreign policy is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration, with a value base that marks belief in community, justice and distribution. The Labour Party believes that it is very important that Norway, as a rich country, makes an effort to combat poverty, a fairer distribution and a more democratic world order, both globally and regionally. The broad lines of our foreign policy are a strong commitment to the UN and international law, NATO membership and an active European policy through the EEA Agreement. In addition, Norway shall be a clear nation of peace and contribute to the prevention, mitigation and resolution of conflicts. NATO is the cornerstone of our security and defence policy. We are like a small NATO country entirely dependent on the support of our allies if Norway's interests were to be threatened. For this reason, participation in military operations abroad is an integral and important part of Norwegian security and defence policy. Through our commitment to international operations, we contribute to peace and demonstrate solidarity with the international community, while safeguarding our own security. The working party is therefore pleased that our government has, at the request of NATO, decided that Norway should make provision and station a special strength unit in the Kabul region. This is also entirely in line with the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration, which is just saying that we need to strengthen our participation in ISAF in Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, not only NATO, but the entire international community faces a major challenge that combines many of today’s key challenges: poverty, weak state structure, weak national economy, extremist rebel groups, high crime, high drug production — all of which threaten a proud and worthy people with a rich culture. The situation jeopardizes the Afghan people. But it also endangers the security of our societies. During the last year, we have experienced painfully that the road ahead for Afghanistan is demanding. The core task of the international community is to facilitate relations so that Afghan authorities can independently control Afghan territory and exercise the functions of authority that characterise a functioning state. We're not there today. In order to get there, the population of Afghanistan must experience positive developments. However, such developments will not take place without military stability – and law and order – being ensured. In the long term, these functions must be carried out by Afghan defence and by Afghan police. The Labour Party is pleased that it has acknowledged from the Norwegian side that the challenges in Afghanistan require a comprehensive strategy. Military power alone is not enough. Civil and military action must go hand in hand. For these reasons, Afghanistan is today our main military bet area, where we will now be present with about 700 soldiers. At the same time, it will be one of the largest recipients of Norwegian civil aid. Not only to Norway, but also to NATO, we have a responsibility for the success of this operation. If we do not establish the necessary military security in Afghanistan, there will also be no economic and social development. Therefore, the Storting should support the soldiers who are willing to participate in these operations – for a safer world, for you, for me, for all. There must be no doubt about our duty to help allied forces in emergency situations, should such events occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1103	President! The Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1110	The President has doubts as to whether he will allow one to have the floor of the Rules of Procedure if it can be taken in conjunction with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1113	I ask for the floor of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1120	Mr Dagfinn Højbräten – on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1123	When Stortinget has a debate on the Foreign Minister’s statement, Stortinget has reason to expect the Foreign Minister to be present and to listen to the statements, not least from the opposition. Here Ingreigt S. Sørfonn from the Christian People's Party made a very important contribution that was directed directly to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Minister of Foreign Affairs held a press meeting in the hiking hall. I believe that the President should be charged, so that the Government is present when the opposition speaks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1128	I'll take that comment to myself. I have wanted to sit in the hall all the time. When I wasn't here, it was because I needed to move to another room in the house to make a necessary errand, and on the way back again I passed the press. But I take the note of myself and will sit the rest of the time in the hall and listen with great interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1136	The President then assumes that this matter is settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1139	I want to focus on a matter that has not been devoted much time here in the staging room. It's the conflict in Kashmir. Kashmir is, as most people know for sure, a beautiful mountain area that lies on the Pakistan-India border. But whether the area belongs to Pakistan or India or whether it should be independent is a conflict that has been going on for many years – ever since 1947, when the two countries were kidnapped from the United Kingdom. Then the very region was divided into two, with a Hindu-dominated India and a Muslim-dominated Pakistan. Both Pakistan and India have demanded sole control of this disputed region, which has been responsible for two out of three wars between countries since they became independent of the United Kingdom. It is said that you were very close to a nuclear war a few years ago. Control of Kashmir is important for several reasons. The area is rich in natural resources and important for safety reasons. In addition, major rivers in both Pakistan and India have their source in Kashmir, and controlling water resources is essential for agriculture in both countries. The border goes partly through very foreign terrain, over broad and high mountains, and it is therefore difficult for all parties to control the border activity. From the late 1980s onwards, militant groupings have grown in the area. Some of them work for Kashmir's independence, while others aim to integrate Kashmir into Pakistan. From around 1990 there was a more religiously oriented resistance struggle. This will include, inter alia: Arab soldiers who have fought for Mujahedin in Afghanistan in the past. So these are warriors who have close links both to the Afghan Taliban regime and to Al Qaeda, and thus also to international terrorism. Following Al Qaida’s attack on the United States on 11 September 2001, Pakistan was subjected to strong diplomatic pressure, and the United States demanded that the country tackle the problem of the Arab warriors – this because they received training in training camps in the border areas between Pakistan and Kashmir and then entered Indian Kashmir. India then tried to exploit the situation with a strong US in its back and threatened with war if Pakistan did not clean up. This led to massive upgrading in border areas, and the two nuclear powers were getting ready to show muscles. Both sides have later admitted that one was very close to nuclear war. Fortunately, this was stopped by means of extensive international diplomacy. The parties submitted a new truce a few years ago – in November 2003 – and since then the tone between Pakistan and India has become a little better, and both sides have tried to engage in dialogue. Nevertheless, violence and unforeseeability continue to characterise the region. India has been repeatedly criticized by Amnesty International for extensive and gross violations of human rights in its hard-handed treatment of the local population in Indian Kashmir. It is important that we do not forget this conflict in everything else that happens in the world. We should work for more international observers to gain access to the area, for greater transparency, and for pressure to be put on both sides to get a good solution for Kashmir. President Musharraf of Pakistan said for approx. two months ago that country was willing to give up its claims on Kashmir if India accepts any of his peace proposals. So for the first time in over 50 years you see a slight glimpse of the willingness to negotiate. I am therefore now wondering what Norway and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have done for Kashmir in recent years. Now the foreign minister commented on this with a few sentences today, but very little. I hope he will say in the course of the day a little more concrete about what he and the Government will do to put Kashmir on the agenda, press the countries for a solution, and how he will work on this in his foreign policy work and diplomacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1162	Throughout history, Russia has provided a great deal of attention — good and bad. Putin's recent rhetorical outcome to the United States gives us in many ways some memories of old, but not exactly good days, as this was the everyday picture. Marit Nybakk stated in a reply to Erna Solberg that the Right has a somewhat aggressive policy against Russia, unlike the government parties, which – as she says – act with greater ‘fastness’. I totally disagree with that. It's our duty to say from. It is our duty to point out democratic violations, breaches of transparency and all attempts to prevent the free word from reaching out. Forces that suppress such freedoms thrive poorly in public searchlights. The right has tried to put the public spotlight on such cases because it is our duty to say from. We have seen that a Norwegian foreign employee working with the AMEC programme was stopped on arrival in Russia and sent home again. As a neighbouring country to the battle in the east, these events should give us a reminder in several contexts; this is our foreign policy in the broadest sense, but also our defence, security and trade policy. Our ‘alone’ trade policy has also led us to the back of the international field on the other issues that tend to move towards foreign policy. We need friends and allies in the North Sea issues. But we also need to be close to friends with Russia, not least because we have our greatest environmental threat near our borders, and because the world's energy challenge means that we have to succeed in several arenas. ‘The Northern Areas are therefore the main foreign policy area of the Government,’ said the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his statement. Sometimes I wonder if this can be right. In any case, the media image shows that other corners in the world are getting so much attention and so much commitment. I do not doubt the political ambitions of the North Region bet. The ambitions are cross-political. But the challenge in the north now is to fill the policy with content beyond ambitious objectives. It's going to be a joint job, because it's going to go north. Some of the economic optimism has taken place. ‘Norway shall be able to recognise in the northern regions’, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement last Tuesday. ‘Presence, activity and knowledge are key words for our commitment’. Small steps are being taken in these areas, but if we are to succeed in our North Sea effort, we must be more successful in our interaction with Russia. In this respect, it is a little surprising that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not more than highlight food and trade cooperation with Russia as the main key to achieving development, growth and interaction. When we look at our neighbourhood, the Nordic countries, and also the Baltic and Central European countries, we see quantities of good stories from Norwegian economic cooperation with these countries. Such good stories are lacking in our interaction with Russia. At the same time as the 2005 government takeover, we had the fish exports crisis with Russia. It was said that we were almost a solution. We are not closer to a solution today than we were at the end of 2005. We have seen that our biggest single receiver of fish has blocked his limit, and we have seen that when the Coast Guard has pointed out illegalities in Russian catches, the Russians do not choose to care about it. We have to do something about this. We need to get these questions across in greater publicity. I think that if we are to succeed in this sector of our Russian policy, we must be willing to allow Innovation Norway, the instrument, to move in line with the overall objectives of foreign policy. There's the key, and then I think it's time to move some engagement from Central Europe to areas where we haven't succeeded as well, namely in North-West Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1177	I would like to begin by commending Minister Gahr Støre for the role that Norway has taken on as a leading country in showing support for the new Palestinian Assembly government, which is now to be formally formed. I am very pleased that Norway was among the very first to welcome and welcome this government initiative, and that we are among the first to say that it is now time for the West to lift the economic sanctions imposed last year, and it is time to engage in political dialogue again when the government and its declaration are soon in place, and hopefully they are far on the way to comply with the demands of the Quartet. It is right for Norway now to call on the West to show the Palestinians that what was said when the boycott was introduced a year ago, namely that if the Hamas government complied with the requirements of recognising Israel, refraining from the use of violence and respecting international agreements, the boycott would be lifted and dialogued again. Now we see that this is about to happen. Hamas and Fatah form a collection government on the Mecca declaration, which far on the way complies with the requirements of the Quartet. I note that today the opposition is mildly shocked that the Norwegian government is now doing what it has said it should do. We made some demands, we agreed on a boycott, but we also said that if it turns out that there's movement, we're going to cancel that boycott. The text on which Hamas and Fatah have agreed contains acknowledgment of previous agreements and UN resolutions that provide a clear recognition of Israel, and we must expect the same to be reflected in the government's platform when it is ready. This is historic. We must not forget that this gathering takes place after a year with an international boycott that has brought Palestinian society into economic ruin, and the Palestinian people into a humanitarian disaster. We cannot get away from the fact that the situation that the boycott has brought with it has also contributed greatly to the fact that there have been strong battles and civil war-like conditions between Fatah and Hamas. Especially serious has it been lately. The Boikott has led to an experience of hopelessness and anger in the Palestinian people, and hates Israel’s occupation – which does not experience the same condemnation from the rest of the international community – only growing. So the boycott also goes beyond Israel's own safety. Now, hopefully, we get some peace between the parties. Not least, it seems that you are about to start complying with the requirements of the Quartet. Then the world community has to get out quickly and show its support for the positive development and show that what you said was meant. If the West does not now support this development and the new government, we will only be more concerned that the Palestinians will see that even if they have done their utmost to find a solution, it will not help. The West won't know about them. The Quartet wants to update the Roadmap for Peace and get Israelis and Palestinians back to the negotiating table. With a joint government, President Abbas will have a broad basis for negotiation, and what is now happening is therefore the first step on the road and a new hope of finding a solution to the conflict with Israel. The Foreign Affairs Committee visited Saudi Arabia three weeks ago, and in our meeting with the Saudi Minister of Foreign Affairs he repeatedly stressed that without a joint government it would go against disaster in the area. He also repeatedly stressed the importance of the West supporting any signs of positive development between the parties. Now the government must be formed, and it must make its statement. It will undoubtedly be the United States that has the key to the further settlement of the entire Israeli-Palestinian conflict. What the United States chooses to do, whether they recognise and support the government, and whether they call for the lifting of the boycott becomes crucial. It would have been great if President Bush could now think of his own reputation and actually use the last part of his presidency to really facilitate a solution in the conflict between the Palestinians and the Israelis. If he is going to do that, he must first give the Palestinians recognition that they are now moving in a crucial and important direction, and that they are just doing what Bush and the rest of the West required them to do. It is important to support what is now happening in relation to the assembly government, but it is also important to condemn Israel for their violation of the Palestinians. Although the international community has repeatedly condemned Israel's abuses, they continue to build walls through the West Bank, establish Israeli settlements in Palestinian territories, withhold the Palestinians' own money, undermine the possibilities of a Palestinian state and deprive the Palestinians of their fundamental rights. If we are to move towards peace and justice, Israel must first and foremost change its basic policy. If that does not happen, we will never see the Palestinians and the Israelis living in peace side by side in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1209	I would like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs in two specific areas. It concerns the international activities of the present and future of partly State owned oil companies and, in particular, the future merged Norwegian Hydro–Statoil. The second thing I want the Foreign Minister's comments on is whether Norway will change its aid practices in the future, and whether Norway will make demands for compliance with human rights as a prerequisite for assistance. I then kept the disaster aid outside. The State will be a significant owner of the future merged company Norsk Hydro–Statoil. In fact, state ownership will become so large that, by active governance alone, the State will be able to provide clear leadership for the business. Regardless of ownership, the merged company will continue to operate more and more of its activities beyond the borders of Norway in the future. In fact, the main reason for the merger was that the company would become more competitive internationally through size. This presents the new company with challenges with clear political dimensions. The vast majority of the remaining oil and gas deposits in the world are located in countries where democracy is weak and where corruption thrives. Furthermore, we know that future Hydro–Statoil bet countries are not to be counted as our traditional allies or co-operative countries. Yes, in fact, Hydro–Statoil’s activities will have to a large extent be in countries that consider themselves enemies of Norway’s closest allies, the United States. This presents Norway with major challenges and requires an almost impossible diplomatic balance. Today, for example, President Chávez of Venezuela is nationalising the oil and gas industry in Venezuela without compensation for his investments. We are experiencing an increasingly aggressive Iran, as among other things. Due to its enormous oil deposits, it is able to play a destabilising role in the Middle East. We experience tribesmen in Nigeria who kidnap foreign oil workers because of a lack of democratic distribution of their oil revenues. These are three concrete examples of locations where the future market of Hydro–Statoil is located. Furthermore, for example, we have Russia, Azerbaijan and several countries in the Middle East. A merged Hydro–Statoil will, on the owner’s side, be dominated by the Norwegian State and will, in many countries, regardless of its reality, be seen as an instrument of the Norwegian Government. This presents it at all times with very great challenges. Against this background, I would like to know how the Minister of Foreign Affairs assesses the future growth of Hydro–Statoil, and what leadership the Government will provide for the company’s international activities. Is it so that the Foreign Minister accepts that President Chávez confiscates Norwegian companies' property and investments in Venezuela? If not, what will the Foreign Minister do with this? And can he do anything about that at all? Is the Government comfortable expanding a merged Hydro–Statoil in Iran, and what signals will the Minister of Foreign Affairs give if the US launches boycott of all companies operating in Iran? The other area to which I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs' comments is Norwegian aid policy. For several years, Norwegian foreign policy has been focused on peacemaking and human rights, while we have been major donors of assistance. Uncertainly, for what reason different governments have been not willing to connect these two areas of intervention – a connection I would say that a large majority of Norwegian people both expect and demand. Against this background, I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs: will the Norwegian Government in the future use state aid in such a way that not only do they reward those who introduce democratic reforms and maintain human rights, but at the same time will they end aid to those countries that do not respect human rights as they are enshrined by the UN? In other words, will Norway stop providing assistance to countries that systematically discriminate against women, often based on culture and religion? And can the Foreign Minister confirm today that Norway will end all assistance to countries that practise Sharia legislation? Or does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is wrong to link such practices to Norwegian aid? So now I'm talking about transfers of money. And, more importantly, does the Foreign Minister understand that transfers of funds through aid to countries with fundamental disregard for universal values such as tolerance, equivalency, individual freedom, freedom of religion and equality are perceived as an acceptance of discrimination and intolerance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1237	The fight for media attention, and therefore also for politicians, is rarely won by Africa. So has been the case in this debate. It always seems to be part of the world where the need for help is a little bit bigger, or where the level of conflict is a little bit higher. I'm going to use my post to talk about some of the democratic developments that characterize the continent. Fortunately, Africa is far more than humanitarian disasters. The country, or the continent, is developing also democratic. On 24 February – in less than two weeks – Zimbabwe will celebrate its despot’s birthday. 83-year-old President Robert Mugabe, together with his minions, is responsible for a country in a free fall. The country has a world record of inflation, about 90 pst. by the workforce is outside the legal economy, AIDS kills more and more, and it is among those with the highest share of HIV infection. More than half of the population depends on international food aid. It's in this situation nauseating that the president will spend over $1 million celebrating himself. Although this is collected money, it is striking how many other uses they should have had. I also want to challenge the Foreign Minister in this debate to engage in Zimbabwe. The Foreign Minister and Norway must be a driving force for democratic reforms – including in Zimbabwe. The population has suffered long enough. Now there is a need for action! The wait and watch attitude that has been practised in the last ten years has been flawed. For a long time, the Democratic Alliance, the largest opposition party in South Africa, has also strongly encouraged Norway to stop leaning on South Africa, rather than pushing South Africa into action against its neighbours in the north. The key to the solution lies both internally in Zimbabwe and throughout the African continent, with South Africa as a key player. Mr Tutu recently expressed his concern about the democratic development of South Africa. In particular, he aimed at the country's voting in the UN Security Council, where it voted against a resolution condemning human rights violations in Myanmar. South Africa cooperated with China and Russia. Furthermore, it is of concern that South Africa appears to oppose some parts of the so-called Peer Review of the African Union. Countries like Ghana, Rwanda, Kenya and now Mauritius have been examined. This is a tool that can be used to increase knowledge, to increase economic and democratic development. It's a shame that the ANC doesn't see that they have a self-interest in openness and knowledge of the country's policies. In Klasskampen on February 3rd this year, State Council Erik Solheim writes: «Help is politics». I totally agree with that. I am convinced that there is a lot of policy in the fact that today's government will provide more assistance than opening up our markets to new countries and products, as proposed by the Right in the 2007 state budget. But leave it. Let's focus on the fact that we have a development minister who wants to introduce some countries, and then based on what he calls democratic criteria. I am now aiming especially for Latin America, which is taken up to be one of the continents that should be premiered. The question then is: does it take place with a background in the single countries of Latin America that goes to the left – to the traditional partners of SV, such as Hugo Chávez in Venezuela? Why not see a similar escalation of aid – or at least a stepping up of rhetoric – in relation to some of Africa's democratic lighthouses? Then I think about Ghana and Senegal in particular. Ghana has re-elected its democratically elected government – in fact unique to an African country. It should not go unattended. It should also bring Norwegian aid crowns. Contributing to building and strengthening democratic institutions also in Senegal will be an important signal to send – much more important than the signal that countries on the left deserve increased assistance. They do not — countries that choose democracy deserve increased assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1252	It is, of course, legitimate for the opposition to drill in the Government regarding the use of the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. But I have to say that it is going too far when you sow doubts about the Norwegian soldiers can trust the Government, such as. Carl I. Hagen did here earlier in this debate, especially after the glaring clear statements the Foreign Minister made here today. There should be no doubt that Norwegian soldiers can trust their own government. We here in this room shouldn't be the first to sow that doubt. Instead, in my opinion, we should concentrate on what is most important, namely that there is a unanimous increase in support of the operation in Afghanistan, and that we are now making arrangements to strengthen our commitment to Afghanistan. In addition, the Minister of Foreign Affairs set this into a broad strategy for what he called engagement policy. I believe that this is the basis for saying what is on the U.D. website, that this is perhaps the most important speech that has been given in Norway this year – it remains to be seen, of course, but at least to date. Because we cannot cope with the situation in Afghanistan without military intervention. We can't do it without civil construction. But I think we're not gonna be able to do it just with these two elements either if we're not able to get away from the isolation policy that's been pursued for many years, and over to an engagement policy across the Orient and the Middle East. For what have we seen? Insulator Hamas, insulator Hezbollah, isolates Iran and isolates Syria – it has made the conflicts deeper and created even more enemies. The isolation of the Hamas administration could not lead to anything but chaos and almost civil war in Palestine. The absence of negotiations between Israel and Syria has led Syria to war against Israel by means of Hizbollah. And Hezbollah has used this situation to destabilize Lebanon. Iran is now using Hamas and Hezbollah to build up as a major force throughout the region. In my opinion, there is a lack of solutions to the conflicts in this region that have helped Iran to do this. And worse, there has been an unholy alliance between Al Qaida, the Taliban, and Iran, Hamas and Hezbollah. I say unholy – for they really have no common goal other than to crack the Americans and Israel, while they originally had different goals. But because of the policies that have arisen, an unholy alliance has emerged in which everyone fights for the same goal, and they do so in Afghanistan, they do so in Iraq, they do so everywhere. But it had not had to be like this in my opinion. What I think is important about the foreign minister's speech here, is that we must now try to get into a situation where we try to involve them as it is possible to engage. That's what's new in the situation in the Palestinian territories -- at least it could be with the government that it now looks like it's coming. There may be a new situation if negotiations are started between Israel and Syria on the Golan Heights, because then much of the air will be taken out of the balloon called Hezbollah. In the case of the parallel that the Foreign Minister drew, that is to say, what we have done in the past, for example. Here in Europe, there was a combination of military suppression throughout the Cold War, but at the same time opening up for dialogue. This eventually led to the fall of the Berlin Wall. That's what you have to try out in the current situation in this whole area: have a military intrusion against them that must be countered against the military, among other things. The Taliban in Afghanistan, for them I don't think it's possible to negotiate with, and against Iran. But it is still possible to have dialogue with all the others, so as to improve the situation, a solution to the political problems. Then I actually think it'll be easier to drive the cancers back in Afghanistan, the Taliban and Al Qaida, because then this alliance all over this area will crumble. I think it's a completely necessary strategy, as well as the military in Afghanistan and the civil construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1259	No, I don't think it's Gahr Støre who's the problem in this case, it's probably other people who have a much more difficult relationship with themselves in that way. First of all, I would like to comment on the pointless assertion by the Minister for Foreign Affairs – for me – that the Progress Party wants to buy gas in foreign policy. What we want to clarify is that we need to have a much more offensive attitude towards promoting Norwegian industrial policy and Norwegian industrial interests. Obviously, other countries have a completely different policy in this area than we do. If we go into the aid work that we have done in Russia, there have never been Norwegian requirements that would have helped Norwegian industry to participate in the work that has been done. It concerns nuclear storage, road construction, the development of mobile phone networks, etc. And why is it that when Finland, Sweden, or Germany goes into projects in Russia, they make clear demands that Swedish, Finnish or German businesses get up to 30 pst. of the different contracts? Such bonds are not available in Norway. It's true no matter where we turn and turn. Whether it is Russia, or whether Norwegian industry wants to promote, for example: salmon in Hong Kong or Shanghai is the same feedback that we receive, that there are no nutritional measures in Norwegian foreign policy. The government claims that the northern regions are our greatest and first priority in the field of foreign policy. Then it's kind of strange that the economic sum you're going to get is about as large as it costs to build four or five one-dwelling houses. And when, in addition to the hospital policy in Norway, there is so much insecurity in the north, where one hospital after another is in danger of losing departments, it is clear that this does not create room for building sovereignty and creating security among the population in the north. This is directly involved in undermining a bet against the northern regions. When I was at the Nordic Council in Helsinki, I was so lucky to hear from the Finnish EU ambassador that Finland has now taken an initiative to develop an international barn secretariat in the Church, where both the EU, Russia, Iceland and Norway will be present. I feel incredibly positive about that. I think it's really nice. It's just so sad that every time I've asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs before, it can't be an idea to have a common arena so that you can actually have a daily dialogue with, among other things. Russia, then I've got the answer back that he doesn't think this is necessary, this can be handled by the office in Oslo and Moscow. I think it's great that this attitude here is now being reversed. With regard to Norway and Russia and border crossing and visa issues, I note that there are many who have expressed concern about democracy in Russia from this pulpit. Yeah, so can I. But I also see that we don't have in the first place a task to consider how we meet other citizens? And so when the Russians are coming to Norway, you're being welcomed in the Great Forest by black windows, no information, and you have no sense of coming to a Western democratic country at all. This should be very simple for a Western democratic society to do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1272	I listened very carefully to the Foreign Minister's briefing and have also read through it afterwards. I found nothing about Latin America. It's striking. Our Minister for Foreign Affairs No. 2, the Minister for Aid, has given attention to this part of the world. There are clear signals that Norwegian aid policy should be used to support left-wing forces in the region. This is an ideological, non-assisted, bet, which the Right obviously opposes. Anyway, it would have been natural that Latin America had got a place in the presentation. There are in particular two countries where Norway faces dilemmas – Cuba and Venezuela. Human rights and human dignity are important to Norway. The fact that we live in a society where we take the values that these concepts include, for given, must also commit us internationally. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, of course, mentioned the human rights in his statement – it should be lacking – but we are not as steadfast in our exercise. Hedmark Right had visited by two exiles at their annual meeting last weekend. They were not gracious in their description of Castro and his regime in terms of freedom to organize, democracy and human rights. They told me about elections with one candidate, 100 pst. election opening and a parliament meeting twice a year to pay tribute to the President. They told us about 40 000 Cubans who are at great risk of their own lives every year fleeing the country. They told us about a everyday day when surveillance, fear and control are part of the normal. This is the tourist Eldorado that many North people travel to. They live in hotels where the usual Cubans can't dream of taking in, if he had permission. Even Internet use is prohibited for most people in Cuba. Amnesty has registered 70 prisoners of conscience and approx. 300 political prisoners in Cuba today. The exiles pointed out that invitations from and contacts with other countries' embassies and diplomats were an important protection for those trying to oppose. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible for human rights. I believe him, but why did he and the government of Stoltenberg comply with a demand to stop the invitations of opposition politicians to 17 May reception at the Norwegian Embassy in Havana? It was a requirement that was there under the previous government as well, but it did not comply. LO takes credit for this “brain” on his website. It says: ‘During meetings with the authorities and the CTC, the leader of the LO was given the main responsibility for the change of Norwegian policy towards Cuba.’ We take the freedom of organization for given here in the country. The fact that LO supports something else out there is at best amazing, but that the government is yielding to such a pressure is critical. Does not human rights mean so much anyway? Venezuela, with President Hugo Chávez, is another paradox. Minister of Assistance Solheim has even sent congratulations telegrams there. The President is now threatening to nationalise Norwegian holdings in oilfields. We'll probably get over it, but it's warning that there's a kind of policy that's going to weaken Venezuela's development. The really dramatic thing is that President Chávez has just seized exceptional power, with full rights to change the country's laws for a 15-month period in the future. Can we think of the kind of instruments we use, and what kind of means of pressure is being used, to get a assembly to unanimously give up all power to one man? Imagine if the Storting was confronted with a situation in which we would vote to give up all power to one person, in order that he might find work to create «socialism for the next century». At least the assembly had not been unanimous. It is therefore the lighthouse to which our Minister of Assistance is channelling more of Norwegian resources. It is a paradox that the Foreign Minister does not even mention this in his statement. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that both Cuba and Venezuela are undergoing processes that are completely across the fundamental values of Norwegian society: democracy and respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1296	The majority received a very thorough and informative statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Tuesday on the foreign policy situation. At a time when the media plays a very important role in people's perception of the world situation, it is important to get the foreign minister's picture of the world. Media often has a tendency to focus on some issues in some parts of the world, while other issues that should have been more focused on are forgotten. That's why it's important that we, as politicians, not only relate to what's going on in the TV and the newspaper pages, but also focus on the forgotten distress and the forgotten conflicts. However, I'm going to use this post to talk about that part of the presentation that referred to the northern regions. I am very pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs devoted so much of his statement to the northern regions, and that he made it clear that the northern regions are the main foreign policy area of the Government. The northern regions are in possession of large natural resources. The findings of oil and gas and the possibilities offered by this have created a much greater interest in these areas than was previously the case. We who live in these areas are well aware of the optimism and interest of other actors in the opportunities that lie in the northern regions. It hasn't always been like that. This is very positive, but it is also important that the natural resources available in the northern regions, also in reality, will provide value creation, jobs, housing and well-being in these areas. We need to put in place an infrastructure, both nationally and across borders, which makes it attractive to engage in business and to live in these areas. This must also include ensuring that the environmental aspects are protected, through good oil protection preparedness and good monitoring of the route. Let me also draw attention to the importance of the wording of the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that the presence of the defence and the lifting of sovereignty in the north should be strengthened, including the defence's contribution to good preparedness for environmental crises and the capacity of the Coast Guard for resource control and preparedness. This must also be the basis for adopting the plans for our future defence here to land. When we debate the north, it has been easy to become a debate on oil and gas, but we must not forget all the other issues covered here. I don't have enough time to get in on so many sides of this, but I can't avoid mentioning our second largest export industry, the fisheries, which will still be central in the northern regions. Without fisheries as a basis, there would be little to build on in these areas. In this context, I would like to point out the importance of working internationally to combat illegal fishing in the Barents Sea. If we do not have a strong control over this, much of the life base in the northern regions can simply be at risk. That is why I would like to recall again the important role of the Defence and Coast Guard in monitoring and exercising authority. In this context, I would like to commend the steps that this government has taken so far in these areas. Let me end by mentioning the great differences in living conditions that we find in the northern regions. Despite brighter prospects, there is still a huge welfare gap between Norway and Russia. In North-West Russia, there are still very poor health services, and the situation for indigenous peoples is very bad. I've been in these areas myself, and I've seen for myself how difficult the situation is for people. These are aspects for which good neighbours cannot close their eyes, and which must therefore be given great attention by Norway in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1317	In this room and in some national government meetings around the world, the Progress Party has been challenged by climate policy. Some newspapers have called around and tried to get FrPs to get the most out on the ice, and then turn it up big to show the distance between the parties in climate policy. Let me therefore take this opportunity to talk a little bit about what kind of climate policy the Progress Party has. It is emboldened with many prejudices, many myths. Some have probably contributed well to the creation of themselves. Others are created by the media, which thrive better with a black-and-white debate than with a nuanced debate. The Progress Party voted against the Kyoto agreement in its time, not because we are against international agreements, not because we are against quota trade, but simply because the agreement that was there was not good enough. We also see that today, when large industrial enterprises move their output out of Kyoto and into countries without agreements. We have been critical of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, not because we do not take the issue as an addressee, seriously, but because we feel that some critical environments, such as: at the University of Oslo, is not included in the work, but remains outside. The work carried out on atmospheric research at CERN, which is strongly criticised by Norwegian climate environments, shows that much is happening in the world to understand the climate even better before one implements the major measures, thus defending the criticism of the Progress Party. However, it should not be misunderstood in any way by rejecting the issue. When we look at what the Progress Party has actually done in the CO2 sector, my claim will be that we would have much less CO2 emissions in the long term with the policies of the Progress Party than both today's and the previous government would be able to achieve. The Progress Party suggests that a long-term approach to the issue should be adopted and that technologies and understanding of climate are developed before a major action is taken. The example that illustrates this is Kårstø, where the government is now adding up to a project of SEK 5 billion, which will cleanse 1 million tonnes of CO2 per year maximum of a global emissions of 28 billion tonnes. The Minister of Energy has even admitted to Stortinget that this project will not be useful in many other places, precisely because one does not allow sufficient time for technology development. It's wasted money, at my discretion. We need a climate policy that takes into account that there are 1.6 billion people on the globe without access to power. When many Chinese and Indians go up to a Western standard of living – because they do, it's not going to be talking about saying that happiness is not money, let's live as we do today – this will require an energy consumption beyond what we can understand today. I don't think we understand how important hydrocarbon is for the world's energy supply. Therefore, it is not only useful to look at CO2 cleaning separately, although the Progress Party has supported the projects for CO2 cleaning both on Mongstad and on the Tjeldbergodden. But Mongstad and the Tent God bring no more energy into an energy-hungry world. It brings less, for a user using 20 pst. by the energy on the road. This is why proposals made by the Progress Party, for example. on thorium, what can actually revolutionize the world's energy supply and the world's climate policy. What the Progress Party has also done is that we have proposed biomembranes, which would have positive effects on the world's ability to feed itself, including the poorer parts of the world. We've been supporting projects to convert seawater into agricultural water, which will be very necessary in the warmer regions of the world. At Stortingen, we have put forward concrete proposals to introduce permanent half of VAT on heat sources, so that energy conversion is stimulated away from electricity, instead of providing emergency measures every three years. We have proposed that one should be able to write of technical environmental and energy installations in new buildings over five years, instead of over 50 years, as today. It would give effects that could actually affect. Those who think we're going to get through today's situation by focusing on an increment measure or CO2 cleaning in isolation, I don't think I understand the extent of the energy challenge we're facing. That is why we must look at many areas at the same time. The measures I have now listed are proposals the Progress Party has actually promoted. We wouldn't have encouraged them if we hadn't had any worries about this with CO2. It shows that we have taken the issue seriously, but it must be allowed to have different approaches without one being black painted and put in a booth like idiots. One should then explain the logic of its own policy from the government when one expresses this great concern for CO2 and the importance of introducing measures as soon as possible, but in practice can only show that a three mobile gas power plant in central Norway is building. One builds two gas power plants in Germany without a requirement for CO2 cleaning. One exposes the third time CO2 clean-up at Kårstø and one has a renewable policy which was slaughtered by all 14 consultation bodies on the Stortinget last Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1367	The Secretary of State's statement was ready. He summarized Norwegian north-eastern politics in three key directions: presence, activity and knowledge. Our presence at Svalbard, the mining activity, the tourism activity, the research effort and the establishment of Norwegian companies and institutions at Svalbard, is crucial to Norwegian sovereignty in the northern regions. The same applies to the fishing activity in the Barents Sea and the long-term marine research work in the area. Without this activity, Norwegian interests would undoubtedly have been weaker in an area that has long been an important part of the European food chamber. However, it is only in recent years, after oil activity has shifted northwards and opened up a new perspective for the development of our northernmost neighbourhoods, that international attention is now focused on the area which will undoubtedly contribute significantly to Europe’s and the West’s energy supply in the future. The North Zone bet is and must be long-term. I am pleased that the Government is gradually stepping up its research efforts in the area and that our fisheries cooperation is still developing. Not least, this is important for the sustainable management of fishing resources and, in particular, the fight against illegal, unregistered and unreported fishing, which has long been a threat to Norwegian fish stocks in the Barents Sea, and against employment, housing and industrial development in our northernmost part of the country. It was a breakthrough in the work of a more sensible resource management when Russia, together with the EU countries of the North Atlantic Fisheries Commission, concluded a more efficient port state control. The Agreement will, as is known, contribute to preventing the placing on the market of illegally caught fish. In such a context, it is quite significant that the Progress Party, which most often argues that Norway should pursue a more aggressive control policy in the Barents Sea, and which actually had the finger on the trigger in the ‘Elektron’ case, is voting against the implementation of international agreements in Norwegian legislation. It is quite alarming that the Progress Party actually opposed the imposition of sanctions against vessels engaged in illegal fishing. I therefore find reason to recall that Norwegian fisheries management is securely attached to international law, and must be. This also applies to our fisheries agreements with other countries. There is no alternative to this contractual obligation. In that case it must be that we catch the sea empty. Of course, it's less eye-catching that the Progress Party changes political lines when it fits. I have therefore noticed that the party is now connecting market access for Norwegian fish products to Norwegian fighter aircraft purchases. First out was the representative of Øyvind Korsberg. It could be understood as an invasion. Now, however, I see that the Chairman of the Advance Party, Siv Jensen, during a visit to the West does exactly the same thing. Then we have to take it more seriously. According to the Fiskeren newspaper, the Chairman of the Progress Party considered that Norway now has to put power behind the requirements in order to obtain Norwegian fish market access abroad. When it is negotiated about the purchase of fighter aircraft, it can be linked to the penalty duty on Norwegian salmon. The same link can be made between gas supplies to the EU and market access for fish – still according to the Fisherman newspaper. The recommendations of the Chairman of the Advance Party reflect confusion about the particular form of diplomacy used by the Russian authorities each time they conduct gas price negotiations with their neighbouring countries, by reversing the taps to the gas pipelines. I believe we in this country are on the verge of recognising that Norway is, after all, a small country in the world, and that we should concentrate on the best possible repurchase agreement for Norwegian industry when it comes to negotiating flights. Natural resources have been a source of conflict in many parts of the world, and unfortunately we have seen examples of the fact that the battle for fishing resources in the Barents Sea is both a source of environmental crime and that Norwegian sovereignty and administration are being questioned. No matter how we turn around and turn around, the relationship with Russia is crucial for the North Region policy. Most of the challenges we face can only be solved through cooperation. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he stresses that our dialogue with the Russians should be open and clear, and – I want to add – it must be solution-oriented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1384	Five years ago, the United States and several of its allies attacked the Taliban and Al Qaida in Afghanistan. The Taliban was removed from power. The Taliban case in Afghanistan was considered positive by the local population. The population had lived for several years during the Taliban's journey, where women in particular had been oppressed. According to the Taliban regime, women were not to have education or work outside the home. TV and all information from the West were banned. The invasion phase led by the United States was successful, and the Taliban regime was removed, but clearly not unharmed for all future. The stabilisation phase then followed, albeit a little late. ISAF was given a UN mandate to cooperate with the Afghan authorities in Kabul. Afghan police and soldiers were trained to ensure peace and order with ISAF in the capital, later throughout the country. NATO has now taken command of the entire ISAF force in Afghanistan. When the ISAF force was established, most probably believed that Afghanistan was moving from stabilisation to normalisation. In this phase, a fragile stability was achieved. It was then possible to build a political, legal and social system. The normalisation phase, albeit very fragile, exists in Kabul and partly in northern Afghanistan, although these areas now also appear to be threatened by the Taliban and other warlords. SVs terping that there is no military solution in Afghanistan, probably most of them can agree in part. However, it is very naive to believe that community construction under the direction of international organisations can be successful when peace and order are not present. The Taliban still has too much influence in Afghanistan. This is clear from the fact that many ongoing projects are being sabotaged – yes, in fact destroyed. Many relief organisations, including Norwegians, have built several girls' schools to pay a little attention to the Taliban's ban on girls. Several dozen schools have been looted and burned. If NATO and the West are to succeed in Afghanistan, the local population must see that supporting the elected government in Kabul gives a better life. The alternative is the repression of either the Taliban or other warlords. If the ISAF forces, together with the Afghan forces, are unable to stabilise the situation in the country, it will not be possible to develop society to the best of its inhabitants. It is therefore of the utmost importance that military stability and security be achieved. Only then can Afghanistan be rebuilt, and it will give a better life to the population. Continued Norwegian participation in Afghanistan is important for NATO's efforts in the country. The overall effort of NATO countries is the best guarantee for free and democratic Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1401	We process the setting for St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, on the implementation of European policy in the United Kingdom on Tuesday. I also believe that Europe and Norwegian European policy deserve a mention in this debate. On Tuesday, the Stortinget provided a common political basis for a more offensive and comprehensive European policy to improve work on EU/EEA matters. At the same time, Stortinget wanted to develop parliamentary relations with the EU system and expand its own apparatus and competences. This may give rise to a more open European debate on matters and opportunities, rather than the traditional yes/no perspective. Norway is a member of the internal market and the four freedoms under the EEA Agreement. At the same time, more and more is required from outside an enlarged EU to influence and promote national views. We must compensate for the democratic deficit we have in relation to the EU without EU membership. Norway needs to further exploit the opportunities offered by cooperation with the EU in other areas of its own and common interest, such as the Schengen Agreement and in the field of foreign and security policy. We must ensure stronger dialogue with the EU on the northern dimension. It is positive that the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is so clearly expressing the desire for enhanced political cooperation at the top of the EEA Agreement and beyond. There are major issues related to developments in Europe, in the EU and our relationship through the EEA Agreement, in which Norway must take an active part in order to safeguard national interests, but also for a greater vision. The Workers' Party will cooperate, exploit common opportunities, take our share of responsibility and respect values such as community and solidarity. Norway has supported the enlargement of the EU and contributed significant amounts to the new EU countries. I hope that in the near future one can agree that the financial instruments in an enlarged EEA will apply to Romania and Bulgaria. I am committed to ensuring that Norwegian actors can participate and build bilateral links between social partners, non-governmental organisations, knowledge environments and business – between actors in Norway and the EEA. The development of common rules in the EU/EEA occasionally raises issues that create strong discussion. Now it is the Services Directive. Increased trade in services also offers new opportunities for Norway, but at the same time it must not hinder the fight against social dumping. The Directive has now been adopted in the EU and the Government is required to assess the consequences after the consultation round has been concluded and to come to the Stortingen on the matter. The compromise in the European Parliament was described by Euro-LO as a comprehensive victory for Europe’s citizens and workers after the removal of the country of origin principle, labour law not covered by the Services Directive and simply – public sector excluded. I would be very surprised if there were any special difficulties for Norway in the directive, such as: that this would prevent our own efforts against social dumping. I see that the yes/no perspective is not entirely absent in EU/EEA cases, as those who argue strongly for the longest possible time on impact assessments have already decided too far that Norway has to reserve itself against the directive. But the government must use the time needed to answer the questions asked. In the preamble to the European Policy Communication, a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs believes that the EU has played an important, stabilising role in Europe and that the EU continues to have a positive impact on the democratic development of several countries through its enlargement. This is a good description of reality. This is a most topical issue in the development of the Western Balkans, particularly in relation to the final status negotiations on Kosovo. It is hoped that the plan and ongoing consultations of the Athisary will be supported and that the UN Security Council can agree on proposals that will bring peace, stability and the absence of violence to the area. The EU will play a central role in supporting the further development of the Western Balkans, both by its presence and by being able to draw countries closer to integrated cooperation in Europe. Norway should also continue to play a role in supporting the establishment, respect for human rights and good governance. Here are the common opportunities for European solidarity and cooperation, where we must take our share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1431	More and more people are getting their eyes up to the seriousness that climate problems represent for our global community. The challenges surrounding the climate problem are many. Increasingly higher average temperatures to land and to water make the ice on the poles melt, the water rises, and many societies in the world are directly threatened by this. But there are also more hidden threats that are more difficult to see. We still lose hundreds of species every year. As the representative of Trettebergstien explained in his statement in connection with Storting's agreement to the international agreement on tropical timber, the number of species in the world is very important for our ability to find new medicines for dangerous diseases. It doesn't just keep replacing the mahogany table with a pine table or recycling the newspapers, if you're concerned about these or other environmental challenges on the globe. CO2 emissions and global warming are the greatest threat to our future on this planet. As of today, we are discussing how to meet our commitments in the Kyoto agreement. Norway was a driver of this agreement through the Brundtland Commission and the Rio Conference. It's a problem that the world's climate host, the United States, has not ratified it, but there's no excuse for not doing our part either. What we do in climate policy is a foreign policy issue. If we are not drivers and precursors in these areas, we become accomplices when millions of people are hit by floods or other weather phenomena. It is therefore frightening that the Progress Party, which is the country's second largest party, does not take this seriously. The representative, Høglund, earlier today reiterated that the Progress Party was concerned with the climate, but they only disagreed a little about how the climate problems have arisen. This doesn't last. If we don't recognise that the climate problems are man-made, it's not possible for us to solve them either. It has been around 150 years since it was demonstrated that CO2 emissions enhance the greenhouse effect. Then it's not so advanced or complicated to realize that if you reduce emissions, you can help reduce the problems. I mentioned that Norway has gone ahead before. We have to do that again. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is constantly showing the ability to take the lead. We also need to do this in climate policy. More and more people are talking about that we also have to have something after the Kyoto agreement. The low-emission sample has pointed out that Norway should reduce 2/3 of its emissions. I think we should. But if it's to help, we can't stand alone either. We need international agreements if it's really going to work, and we're going to be able to stop the dangerous and negative developments our world is experiencing on the climate side. Today, the opposition is most interested in finding out the movement pattern of 150 Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan. It would be nice if we could see the same commitment for future generations of the North. Finally, I must be allowed to say that I am also very impressed with the courage that the Foreign Minister is constantly showing internationally. It is tough, but not least important and correct when the Council of State of Gahr Støre acknowledges the work that has been done in Mecca, and that he was early out saying that if this assembly government is formed with the background in it, Norway will give its support and cancel the boycott. The alternative to supporting this is civil war and great unrest across the region. In the fall, the opposition was shocked when Norway was early off promising contributions to the UN forces in Lebanon. Well, this has proved to be a correct and important decision to put the final result into place. Similarly, I am now absolutely sure that the line that the Foreign Minister has taken is the right one, and it is the one that will produce results. Dialogue and active participation must be and are the things that are becoming increasingly evident and that produce results. Cool demands and a hard hand aren't. It's a failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1457	Today, while we have debated Norwegian foreign policy in this room, Göran Persson has been awarded the Sofie Prize for the leadership he has shown nationally and internationally on climate issues. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate him on that price. In the jury's reasoning, it is stressed that Sweden, under his leadership, has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 13.5 pst over a decade. He has made a strong contribution to making Sweden a leading country in climate policy. It's a well-deserved prize, and I hope it will inspire the international community to take action on what is more often and more often referred to as the most important thing of our time. Climate change dominates the international agenda of these days, after the United Nations Panel on Climate Change has presented its report and almost all doubt that the dramatic climate change we are facing is created by people. The party of progress is starting to be very alone. At the same time, there is an uplifting thought that there are also people who can prevent the most dramatic scenarios. It requires countries such as Norway to show a high level of political leadership, but it is possible. The Soria Moria Declaration states that Norway is to work towards a more comprehensive and ambitious climate agreement to follow the Kyoto Agreement. I am also very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has addressed the climate issue in his presentation. There is no doubt that Norway is facing major challenges in the field of energy, climate and foreign policy. Our responsibility as a wholesaler of energy based on fossil energy sources and the ambition to be a leading country in environmental policy make great demands. Climate change affects us nationally, but the most dramatic consequences are seen primarily in other parts of the world. They fundamentally change the global threat picture. The threat of climate change is often compared with the threat of terrorism. Terrorism shall be combated, let there be no doubt about it, but no one can doubt that climate change threatens peace and stability in a far more fundamental way. Climate change leads to resource scarcity. It helps raise the global level of conflict. The term «climate refugee» has become a well-integrated term in our language. It's not a word that describes a phenomenon that can come. It's a phenomenon that exists to the highest degree. Today we have about 25 million of them. In other words, there are more refugees from climate change than from war and armed conflict. The UN assumes that by 2050 the number will be up to 150 million. The Stern report estimates about 200 million climate refugees by the end of our century. We can barely understand the range of that. We already know which areas will be particularly vulnerable: Central America, the Sahara, the Horn of Africa, Kenya, India, Bangladesh and the Pacific Islands. These are areas that are largely characterised by poor governance, where there are already large solid sprouts of ethnic, social and economic conflict, and this is very serious. The man who led the weapons inspection in Iraq, Hans Blix, emphasized it in a very good way when he said that he was more concerned about climate change than about any major military conflict. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that climate issues will shape the international agenda for a long time. I'm happy for the commitment we're now seeing. It is a vital commitment – a result of the seriousness of sinking into international forums, which have traditionally not had the environment and climate at the top of their agenda. It provides a unique room for ambitious environmental nations such as Norway — a room that we will and must exploit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1470	I will also be allowed to do the words of my Grand President and say that the important thing here today and on Tuesday is the broad consensus on what we are now contributing in addition to ISAF. So I'm going to assume that when the week is around, we have a clear picture of the premises around this. It is now clearly communicated from the Government, in all its eventualities, and should not allow for more uncertainty – not least in relation to the women and men we send. I would also say that there is a very clear line in that Government, including I, has said earlier about this in this Chamber and also in NATO. When I have said that there are no restrictions on what offers Norway can make, including special forces, this week’s decision shows exactly that. We can also contribute with special forces. We've made it clear, and we've put it into a frame that's very parallel to what every other country is doing. Then, too, was the prime minister of big business – perhaps as the only one – the essence of my presentation, namely the need for engagement policy. I think it's a theme that everyone who's involved in international politics should discuss. I am pleased that the representative, Høglund, expresses his wish to welcome the project «Norwegian interests in a global world», and I am pleased that he intervenes in the opportunity to address so many questions. There is also an invitation to the political parties, as well as the broad Norway. Then the representative, Vallersnes, says that the best thing for us now is to wait and see about the Middle East. Yeah, that's a good conservative approach. It could be right in many ways. But I think we also have to be able to convey clear signals when we see how depleted and desperate the situation is on the Palestinian side. After the year we're behind, there's an obligation on us to be clear when an effort is made. There is hardly any political movement that stands further away from me than Hamas. Even so, we must be able to recognise this movement they have made. We have had contact with them throughout the year, and we have also been able to communicate what is needed to move in the right direction. Therefore, we also feel a responsibility now that they have done so, by showing that there is a possibility in the future. Then I want to compliment the representative Gitmark on having taken up Africa the way he did. I don't have the opportunity to go into every aspect of what he said, but I can stress that we want to be a driver of change in Zimbabwe. It is also a country that has now received less Norwegian assistance because of the situation there. The representative Tybring-Gjedde was also concerned about this. He mentioned two issues with the state as its owner. I was into it quite detailed really in my presentation, where I said: ‘Our energy industry is gaining weight in markets, in countries where we do not necessarily have long trade traditions, many of them developing, and many of them in countries with political regimes that are very different from ours’. So I said about the same thing as the representative: ‘The summary thereof shall be relevant for the protection of Norwegian interests’. It's a big challenge. That's why I think we need to become more competent to learn about these countries and the dilemmas we can get up to. I see no fundamental difference in the position of the Norwegian authorities regarding the behaviour of Norwegian companies abroad, whether they have a majority of states or not. That's not how we've arranged. If the governments of other countries were to go against a Norwegian company in a way that we find reprehensible, we would deal with it anyway. I think that's right. Norwegian foreign service has followed Norwegian industries and Norwegians out every year, in terms of timber, fish, all sorts of activities, munitions, and now we have energy in a part of the world that is demanding. It's going to put us on a test, and we have to meet it. So this is about connecting assistance to MR. I think it's interesting that the Progress Party, which is to cut all assistance, is concerned with state-to-state aid and how we're going to use it. We had not had the means to do so if the Progress Party had been in power. But we're using it, and if there's anyone who's gone for this, it's Erik Solheim, who's talking about sending very clear signals through the way we give our assistance. It's clear that this is going to be seen in a very close context. So it's from several teams, including the representative of Gundersen, made a point of this: what about these dangerous radical regimes in Latin America? Unfortunately, I didn't have time to get into much of Latin America in my presentation. I went into it by pointing out that Brazil is one of our partners in many different initiatives, health and foreign policy, and also in the WTO context. However, Norway does not provide support for Venezuela. The Minister for Development points out that we need to provide a certain type of development support to encourage positive processes, such as: in Chile, Brazil and Bolivia. So the representative Petersen, when it came to Norwegian springing herring, said that he was deeply disappointed by that agreement. Well, we've got the highest share we've ever had. We've lifted it from 57 pst. to 61 pst. I have acknowledged that the industry would want more, but year after year without agreement for that population would go beyond what we could achieve in this important area. So it's more than 700,000 tonnes now going to the Norwegian industry. It is closely related to what many other speakers here have been concerned about, namely our ability to participate forcefully in the fight against illegal fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1502	Our concern in the case of Norwegian springing herring – which we should not necessarily make a major issue in the context of the foreign policy statement – is that when we now enter into such agreements, we have given other countries the premise for what is fair distribution, greater weight than we should have done. We believe that the premises should have been that we have a legitimate claim for a larger share of the allowances than the result. I will not spend a long time continuing this debate that we have had for three days, but I would like to say that I agree with the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the version that has been the Government's version in this Chamber today. With that in mind, I think we can be sure that we are all behind the participation, but with one important premise. It's that if the Allies ask for help, we say yes, and we do it fastest and most painlessly if we have the capacities that are needed in Afghanistan when that happens. If that premise is clear, and that does not mean that there will be longer government negotiations, or that the Swedish government will meet to approve it, I think we have come on the right track. Then it is not necessary to exaggerate fictitious disagreement, but I would like to say that it is not the opposition that has created confusion, it is clearly fine by itself. But I want to raise some issues and bring some questions to the Council of State in two other areas, which have not been so much affected by the presentation, because we are militaryly present elsewhere. At the moment, the situation in Lebanon is alarming. I would like to have some more detailed views on the situation in Lebanon, the extent to which contributions can be seen, for example. through UNIFIL 2, which was to monitor both the borders and stabilise the country, and in which case we are participating, is working or not, and in which case the new strategies we are going to adopt, and in cooperation with whom, to help make developments in Lebanon something different than a new collapse in a relatively short time. The second topic that was also addressed in the presentation, but on which I think we have had too little discussion, is the development of Russia. Russia is showing authoritarian moves both in view of the democratic development of the country and how to use its position as an actor in the energy market. We have had a lot of optimism in Norway with regard to Russia – and that may still be the reason for optimism – and also a lot of optimism with regard to this government’s opinions. Right around the corner, we would get clarifications on up to several important questions. Over the last year, we have repeatedly heard that help to solve the fishing problem is right around the corner. In November 2005, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that we were close to solving the divider line issue. He could not say whether it would take six or twelve months to solve the dividing line question, but he believed in a quick breakthrough. It might be interesting to hear if there are movements that indicate this. I am not saying this because I want to press for us to conclude agreements that do not give us the best possible clearance. In the dividing line question, I think it's not the most important thing how fast things happen. The most important thing is which result we get. It's important that we don't feel so impatient that we give more of long-term, important values to this society than what is necessary to achieve it. But since the Minister of Foreign Affairs was more optimistic in an earlier phase, he might be able to tell whether the optimism has fallen off, or whether it is increasing in the divisional question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1517	The debate started with a few attacks on the climate policy of the Progress Party and was concluded in the same vein. Because we assumed that some of this was coming, we chose to have an article that was just about our climate policy and the approach to it, a relatively thorough and good post, if I should say so myself. Nevertheless, these allegations come from the representatives of Wickholm and Marthinsen, who are getting quite light on the whole issue. In this room, we have proposed – several times – many instruments to address the problems of CO2 emissions. Let's take it seriously. But we don't think the international agreement agency that's in place alone is solving the global challenge that's ahead of us. We believe that if our proposals had been implemented, they would have had a greater impact – and a positive impact – on CO2 emissions than the policies of the current government. Then the representatives can try to refute it, and there will be a good debate. But to say that the Progress Party is alone, we're outside, we're not taking these issues seriously, we're getting too simple. It's not close to hitting the ball. We are involved and trying to take the energy challenges, climate challenges and environmental challenges seriously in a serious, credible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1530	I will first be allowed to acknowledge Erna Solberg's initial comment on Afghanistan. I think we now have the basis for sending to the Norwegian community and also to the international community, namely the quality of an overall increase behind an important decision to make an even more important contribution to our efforts in Afghanistan. I appreciate that. With regard to Lebanon, the concern there is real. We know that now there have been weeks of confrontation that have also taken life, but it has been primarily nervous in terms of the fact that the groups are opposed to each other. But I have seen for myself that the ones we have in UNIFIL 2 from the Norwegian side, do the job, and that's important. It will end in the spring, and we will then have to make a thorough assessment of what will be a possible further Norwegian contribution. But as we've been through before, the conflicts here are closely linked – Israel-Lebanon and Israel-Syria. It is not possible to detach them completely, so it also has to be seen in context. Russia has anti-democratic features – I agree with that. I have put emphasis on long-termity, and in my presentation yesterday I said: Patience and long-termity are important to governments and companies. I don't remember looking forward to a solution to the divider line question in six months. I've used the slightly meaningless wording that every day we get one day closer, and I think that's what we actually have to live with. But it's movement, and it's positive work, and then we're going to add as much as we can to that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1541	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1981]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1557	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to five minutes to each party and five minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President proposes that there should be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1566	An overall committee believes that people affected by disease and injury must meet with a comprehensive treatment provision. The Committee considers that the intention of the proposers of this proposal for a regulation on the legalisation of rehabilitation is precisely to ensure such an overall offer. The Committee refers to the Patient Rights Act which defines rehabilitation as health care in the same way as preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic and health-care activities. Since rehabilitation is covered by the concept of health care, it follows that patients are entitled to the necessary rehabilitation under the Patient Rights Act § 2-1. On this basis, the Committee as a whole considers that the right to rehabilitation is in fact guaranteed by law. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Party of Advances, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, propose that the document be annexed to the Protocol, while the representatives of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Centre propose that the document be rejected. This majority who wish the document to be annexed to the Protocol indicates that there are major differences in the manner in which the offer of rehabilitation is made. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party in a way modify the original proposal by making the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider setting up its own rehabilitation law, ensuring the right to rehabilitation from the specialist health service and from the local health service, where appropriate, that changes to laws and regulations are made in order to ensure rehabilitation in a broad and holistic sense.’ An overall committee underlines in the budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2006-2007 that rehabilitation should be a priority area, and is concerned that a rehabilitation strategy, as notified by the Government, must ensure an overall perspective on rehabilitation and include both institution-based rehabilitation, other specialist health care rehabilitation and community health rehabilitation. Rehabilitation, as I said, aims to give people suffering from disease or injury a new opportunity to master their daily lives. According to the view of the Centre Party, and I understand, in the view of all parties, the need to improve the provision of rehabilitation services both within the specialist health service and the community health service. Rehabilitation has received a lot of attention in Stortinget in the last year. There was a great deal of attention from the institutions involved in rehabilitation during the 2006 budgetary procedure. The reason for this was the new regime that the previous government put in place, namely the tendering principle, which created a great deal of turbulence. Another area where the Government is working, and where the Central Party is very pleased that the Government has taken action, is that rehabilitation is part of the work of a sample set up in the Council of State to work on funding and the division of health regions. Rehabilitation is an important part of this sample’s work. The centre party also shares the impatience of the other parties that the rehabilitation field must be strengthened. It is also a hope that you will receive a similar rehabilitation offer in all the five, but later four, health regions in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1598	The President assumes that the representative of the Skjälaa will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1601	Yes – I mention proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1606	Then the representative, Rune J. Skjillaa, addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1609	I'm not going to spend so much time, for the first time the case rapporteur explained well the Committee's position before he messed up a little bit on the big fields and talked about the principle of tendering and the snow that fell last year. It is important that we focus on what this matter is about, the right to rehabilitation and the proposal that was originally about the statutory right. What is important in this proposal – one thing is that you have a legal right, the whole committee also writes that you have it – is how much you follow up the right you actually have under the Patient Rights Act. What we see is constant changes in both the content of rehabilitation, the length of rehabilitation, a division of regions and non-cooperation. I'm sure there's a lot of different issues here. Unfortunately, although we have a legal right under the Patient Rights Act, it is not followed up in many ways. We also look at the long queues of people in some disease groups waiting for rehabilitation. For cardiopulmonary habilitation, inter alia is the long queues in large parts of the country. I'm just going to use an example attached to another right that is also statutory, and that shows the problem that not everything that's statutory is followed up. You also have the right to an individual plan. Both the Council of State and I have probably been reasonably unsure that many municipalities have not followed up exactly that part. The situation shows that we cannot always rest on the fact that we have given a legal right. We also have to follow it up somehow, so that's also the content of the law. As I at least understood the Christian People's Party's proposal, the intention was to follow this up. There we support the Christian People's Party. The Advance Party and the Christian People's Party ask the Government to consider making its own rehabilitation law to see these things in context. We're asking for an assessment. Then we hope that the Council of State will make that assessment, even if it is not possible to have a majority for this today, because then at least you can see in context what is legally followed up, whether we are earned by having this in our own law, or whether we need a special law that goes before a general law. When you haven't concluded, this is what you want to evaluate, so it's very important to meet this with an open mind. I am not going to drag the Chamber with a longer debate on this issue, but I am only going to promote the proposal put forward by the Progress Party in the vote with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1624	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1627	Rehabilitation can be essential for many people to continue to be able to manage themselves in everyday life or to return to work. It's about taking as a starting point the respect for man's right to decide on his own life. National health plan 2007–2010 states that rehabilitation has not been given sufficient priority, either in municipalities or in hospitals. It is true that the intention of the proposers to promote the proposal for the legalisation of rehabilitation is to ensure such a comprehensive treatment provision. Unfortunately, it turns out that it is often a coincidence that a patient is offered rehabilitation or not in today’s healthcare system. Recently, I have been contacted or read in the media about rehabilitation services that are being reduced or discontinued. This is incomprehensible and socially uneconomic when we know that lack of rehabilitation leads to a longer and perhaps permanent disease, greater progression in disease development, yes, many can neither throw away the crutches nor get out of the wheelchair – not to talk about the large number of stroke patients with speech problems, aphasia, who never get the help of logoped to rehearse speech. They remain helpless and helpless for years, and in everyday life they become dependent on help from both health and care professionals and from the family. What is helpful, then, that the Patient Rights Act defines rehabilitation as health care in the same way as preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic and health-care measures, when a number of patients are not actually offered rehabilitation from either the first-line or the second-line services? Then there is reason to ask if the right to rehabilitation at all is real. In any case, both patient organisations and individual patients can demonstrate that referring to the law does not help to get rehabilitation. The government believes that rehabilitation has a strong role in the law, and that there is no reason to look more closely at neither laws nor regulations. This is completely incomprehensible to me. After all, the point of laws and regulations is not that they have been written and adopted. It has to be a point that they also work according to purpose. For example, the Council of State has not been able to respond adequately to the understanding of the right to rehabilitation from the local health service. As I see it, it is the regulation of rehabilitation and rehabilitation that deepens and explains the law. But the regulation does not mention anything at all about the right to rehabilitation, only that rehabilitation is something the municipalities should ensure or care for. When the municipalities don't give a patient logoped help or physiotherapy, what? It is not just the Christian People's Party that is concerned about this situation. Several patient organisations have increasingly highlighted the lack of rehabilitation, even with the Social and Health Directorate, as recently as in 2005 the following in the context of the work of the National Rehabilitation Plan: ‘the working group that has made representations to this plan has asked questions as to whether the right to necessary rehabilitation and rehabilitation is adequately respected in today’s legislation’. The Directorate ends by proposing that changes to laws and regulations should be an area of action and that a separate Law on Rehabilitation should be considered. The proposalers are therefore on safe grounds, including professional ones, when we propose to ask the Government to consider a separate law for rehabilitation, or, alternatively, to amend laws and regulations, with a view to ensuring rehabilitation in a broad and holistic sense. I am pleased that the Progress Party has also joined this proposal, and I know that many out there would have wanted the Storting to take this important step today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1651	First, let me say that a comprehensive treatment offer is a general objective of this government. It is not always good enough to provide treatment, care and care if the patient also needs follow-up and rehabilitation to work in everyday life, or to return to work after a period of illness. Both treatment and rehabilitation must then be offered as a comprehensive and coordinated offer, adapted to each individual. I understand that the proposers, the Committee and I, on behalf of the Government, agree on this overall objective. I record, as the debate has also shown, that we are not fully in line with the instruments we are going to use. In many contexts, establishing a right that gives patients a legal claim to healthcare would be the right tool. But as I have explained on several occasions, patients already have a statutory right to rehabilitation. Since rehabilitation is in line with other treatments, the legislator has previously, in 1999, decided that patients should be entitled to the necessary rehabilitation. This right applies to both specialist and community health services. As the Committee on Civil Liberties refers to, this is already governed by the provisions of the Patient Rights Act. At the same time, I would like to say that I think it is absolutely necessary to continue the work of improving and strengthening the efforts in the area of rehabilitation. In the Committee's view, there are also several examples which suggest that the offer is not always sufficient everywhere. It is an objective that all patients who need it should receive appropriate rehabilitation measures to an adequate extent. It must apply to all age groups and to all diagnostic groups. That's why I have, among other things, required regional health establishments to follow up a number of concrete measures in this area. For example, I can. mention the strengthening of capacity in the case of places in hospitals and other institutions providing services in the field of specialised rehabilitation. It is treatment and rehabilitation services for those affected by tinnitus, i.e. ear disease. There are measures for patients with severe head injuries. There are measures for visually impaired persons, including information and organised training. And there's an increase in the number of cochlea implant operations, to mention something. Improvement and follow-up work must be seen in the context of ongoing work on a national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation with which the Government is now working. It is clear that different patients will need different interventions in a rehabilitation process. These may include training, training, technical equipment, facilities, home facilities, etc. Many of the measures in question are also used in many other contexts, not just as rehabilitation. Therefore, many of the measures that patients may need are not even defined as rehabilitation measures. Responsibility is placed on many public sectors and on several levels of service, not only in the health sector. Regulation of measures is also widely known in many areas of the law, such as the Training Act, the People's Security Act, the Building Act and, of course, the Health Act. Because rehabilitation measures are regulated in many places in the law, I don't think it would be appropriate to bring this regulation together in a separate law on rehabilitation. I don't see the need for that either. As I said, patients are entitled to rehabilitation from both specialist and community health services, and this is already regulated by the Patient Rights Act. The Municipal Health Service Act requires municipalities to have a healthcare service that includes medical rehabilitation. In addition, Section 2-1 of this Act explicitly states that patients are entitled to health care, which also includes rehabilitation, from the municipality where the patient is staying. I am pleased that there is a broad welcome to strengthen efforts in the area of rehabilitation, but I believe that there are other measures than a separate rehabilitation law that is the best way to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1668	I want to point out that the Council of State is very definitive in that it should not be a separate law for the area of rehabilitation. I just have to respect that. At the same time, the Council of State says that she believes that it is perhaps necessary to ‘enhance’ and ‘improve’ the area of rehabilitation — that is the terms she uses. In line with the fact that the Directorate has said that legislation and regulations should be amended, that there should be an area of action, my question to the Council of State is: why can this improvement and reinforcement which the Council of State also wants not be assessed in a context where regulations are actually tightened up more than today? What makes it totally unthinkable to go through regulations and laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1673	There's nothing that's completely unimaginable. But I just want to express what I mean – and at this point I disagree with the Social and Health Directorate that it is the laws and regulations that we now need the most to adjust. The law is quite clear in the area, but another thing is that unfortunately it is not always followed up. We have seen that in the specialist health service, but perhaps not least in the community health service. Therefore, the Government believes that it is much more important now to ensure that we actually have a sufficient number of rehabilitation sites, both in hospitals, where there is now an increase, and where the vast majority of people get rehabilitation, in training institutions and also in the municipalities. I think it's more important than regulating a law that, in my opinion, is very clear about what patients really have the right to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1678	The left is, of course, for rehabilitation, and good rehabilitation provides better functional levels and, not least, better quality of life for very many people. But this thing has done something positive which one had to mean. We've got more focus on rehabilitation. That's important. Then we know that we specialize in rehabilitation, and we have rehabilitation at the municipal health level. The Council of State stated that it might be a tool we have to look at. We talk a lot about interaction, not least between these two levels. We've been talking about that, I don't know how many years, every year, I think, and we kind of don't get it. I'm just wondering if we couldn't do anything in the important area. Here I think there is a need for some lubrication to get this going. What does the Council of State think about having extra lubricants in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1687	Now I am a little uncertain about what the representative Ludvigsen means by lubricant. For the current year, the government has earmarked DKK 1 billion for rehabilitation and training institutions. In addition to that, we spend considerable money in hospitals, and that's about there. 55,000 a year get their rehabilitation. Then it is probably right that there is also a need for better interaction in this area. That is why we are working with the Municipal Councils to reach national agreements for better interaction, but we are also going to do so in the relationship between specialist health services and municipalities. It is important, as the representative of Nesvik was here, that the right to an individual level is being followed up. And that's where we see that it fails in many ways. Because if it is followed, it is true that whether you are in need of assistance from specialist health services or training institutions, the healthcare system has an obligation to organise an offer adapted to each individual. We're not always in that field, and that's what we're going to have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1692	I'm actually deeply concerned about a number of patients who in these days are being discharged from hospitals, which are traumatized, who have had heart attacks, and who obviously should, as the Council of State defines it, have the right to rehabilitation immediately. My question to the Council of State is: What advice will the Council of State give to patients who come home from a hospital with lost speech, who simply can't do this by law in any way in the municipality? And it's exactly in the community health service that I think it's the most failing. In the specialist health service, there is the priority rule, and it is much clearer in all these areas than what is to be found in the regulation that I interpret applies to the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1699	I'm not happy with the examples we have of patients who are posted from hospitals and stay in their home without getting needed follow-up or rehabilitation. There is also the law and legislation very clear: if it is the municipality that is the right instance, and not a training institution or a hospital, the municipality has a duty to follow up. So the government that is now known has given both hospitals and municipalities more money, so that they are also better able to do what they are actually required to do. But we from the government will follow this very closely, both to hospitals, which have already received clear demands, even for the current year, and to the municipalities. And when we are about to complete the matter of our own rehabilitation strategy, this will also be very central. I agree with the representative Davøy, I think it's exactly in the municipal health service that we have the biggest challenges in terms of rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1706	As one of the proposers of the proposal for a representative, I have read the vote with great interest and not least the letter from the Council of State. I had hoped she had been more precise in describing how the right to rehabilitation from the community health service is to understand. Many patients experience that they receive little help to recover functional loss after an effective hospitalisation. For the Christian People's Party and for me, it is important that the patient be met with a complete offer. Rehabilitation does not end as one leaves the hospital. It's rather the other way around. Not everyone is allowed to go to the hospital. Patients with musculo-skeletal disorders may, in good treatment and rehabilitation, be able to cope with a longer working situation than without such an offer. This is a win-win situation for society. Today, two thirds of all sick leave is due to muscle and skeletal disorders and mental disorders. The community is losing sight of this group being diagnosed. These diagnostics can be positively altered by a good rehabilitation process. Many rehabilitation institutions have a long experience of helping disabled people back to work in full or in part. That's why it's so important for everyone who needs it to have such an opportunity. The government has often said that it will enable everyone to have equal opportunities for participation and good living conditions, based on their assumptions. The Christian People's Party shares that vision. That is why we have promoted the proposal before us today. It is unfair that there are so many geographical differences in the provision of rehabilitation today. A person living in Finnmark should have the same opportunity to receive such an offer as a person living in the East. In Risør, my own home state, the earth's spade for a new rehabilitation institution is stabbed as soon as there is a clear signal. The need for more spaces is great. It is also unreasonable that rehabilitation institutions have so little predictable framework to deal with. The tendering system creates considerable uncertainty for both owners and employees, who put down a great deal of work to provide top quality treatment. It will be wrong when e.g. The citizen's bathroom has to lay down his institution after 40 years, with only a short notice. This is in stark contrast to our common desire to reduce sick leave and to reduce disability. I hope the Minister of Health addresses these challenges. We need more, not fewer, rehabilitation institutions to succeed in preventing sick leave from continuing to increase. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a need for more research in this field. There are, to a large extent, women affected, so maybe a female health minister can put this in focus with greater pressure than before. Then I hope that more people today will support proposal No. 2, so that you can get your own rehabilitation law. There's more to it than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1725	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1733	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1741	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement at the Stockholm meeting on 13 February 2007 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1749	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Rune J. Skjälaaen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider setting up its own rehabilitation law, ensuring the right to rehabilitation from the specialist health service and from the local health service, where appropriate, that changes to laws and regulations are made in order to ensure rehabilitation in a broad and holistic sense.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1773	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:16 [[2006-2007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-15.ana.ud936e1800	There is no record.
