ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e31	The representative, Mr S. Woldseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e34	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Per Sandberg and myself to lift the ban on professional boxing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e39	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e53	The President has reason to believe that there will be a very short debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e56	The proposal for amendments to the Liability Act and the National Courts Act is a consequence of the fact that the Storting has today amended the Constitution – amended the system and introduced a new national law. So the background is the Kosmo Committee's proposal to also make some changes to the Liability Act and the National Courts Act. The changes to the Liability Act mean that the jurisdiction of the Riksrecht is somewhat tightened, and it is clarified that only criminal acts can be committed by state councils alone, by magistrates and by Supreme Court judges, which are governed by the law. So it's a breach of a constitutional obligation that the Liability Act deals with. In other words, offences of a different nature have to be dealt with in the same way as for other citizens, i.e. through the ordinary provisions of the criminal law. It is also a unanimous committee that believes that this proposal will lead to the avoidance, as far as possible, of criminal rules linking criminal liability to very wide-ranging and explicit policy assessment themes – and a change in the Liability Act § 11. At the same time, there is now a new paragraph in the Liability Act that results in criminal liability for those members of the government who do not apply for dismissal following an adopted motion of censure in the Stortinget. This is therefore also new in the Liability Act and the consequence of the inclusion of parliamentaryism in the Constitution. The penalties for the offences of the new Section 15 have been proposed for 10 years of imprisonment, because it complies with the corresponding provisions proposed in the Penal Code, also by the Frøiland Committee. A curious person may think so, but we're removing the term "leaf" which has been referred to in the Liability Act. This is because this form of punishment has been removed in the general part of the new penal code. Although it has not entered into force, the Committee considers it natural to withdraw the term ‘leaf’ from the Liability Act. The Constitutional Court Act takes the consequences of the Constitutional Amendment and ensures that this law provides that there are five judges from the Supreme Court and six members elected by the Grand Duchy who constitute the new Riksrecht. There are also a number of other amendments to the National Court Act that are of more – let us say – editorial nature, but are a direct consequence of the changes that have been made in the past. In one area, the Committee has been divided into a majority and a minority. The majority, all with the exception of the members of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, agree to the proposal that the Riksrecht should refer to it by a simple majority, while the minority would have a larger majority. I assume that the minority itself will justify its views and proposals. In a new chapter 3 of the National Courts Act, a new establishment has been introduced: a commission of responsibility to be, we shall say, existing at any time, but to enter into operation only if one third of the Grand Duchy so requests. So it's a sleeping responsibility commission, but it can at any time be started to investigate and investigate whether a relationship should lead to a charge that the Storting should decide. With the adoption of these two legislative amendments, the system for the new parliamentary regime will be in place. The amendments to these laws are in effect immediately applicable, so that when this is sanctioned by the King, the whole new system will be in place – both the Liability Act, the Constitutional Law, the Rules of Procedure of the Storting and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e82	Introducingly, I will refer you to the article that was held in Stortinget earlier today, by the Creation Vice President, Ola T. Loan, about the national legal case itself. It is clear that the Christian People’s Party is overthrown by the new system of national law. There is a wide consensus about the changes made to the law, except for one paragraph. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have the same when it comes to the size of the plurality that is to sentence the Riksrecht. In criminal matters, the criminal convictions are based on more than just a few pluralities. In the law of law, the plural requirement is e.g. 70 pst. by jury and 71.4 pst. in the case of jurisdiction. As the Christian People's Party sees it, it is reasonable that the same legal certainty should also apply to those who are put under national law. There is therefore a proposal for qualified plurality in the judgment of the Court of First Instance. The Court of Justice, as already referred to, will in the future have eleven members – five Supreme Court judges and six members elected by the Grand Duchy. In simple multiple cases, if all the Supreme Court judges vote against, the judgment in error may occur. In such cases, one might argue that a possible judgment is politically motivated. It would be unfortunate if an erroneous judgment were passed without the support of any of the Supreme Court judges. Against this background, the Christian People's Party is in favour of seven of the eleven members of the Court of Justice voting in order for a search for punishment to be known as guilty. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e97	Ingrigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e100	I would like to focus on the alternative proposal that exists, on the first paragraph of Section 11, to which the Central Party took the initiative, to which we are very pleased that we have received the support of the Christian People's Party, and which we are also a little surprised that no more in the Committee found to be able to support. I would like to take from the principle of legal certainty in the criminal proceedings that reasonable doubt should be brought to the benefit of the offender — ‘in dubio pro reo’, as expressed. In that case, a claim that this principle means that one in a multi-member court should require a solid majority for a failed judgment. This is the case in the law of the team, as we have written in the setting – the plural requirement is 70 pst. by jury and 71.4 pst. in the case of jurisdiction. In the latter case, a majority who know the offender is guilty will always hold at least one professional conviction. Now the new Supreme Court will have eleven members – six of the Grand Duchy’s members and five Supreme Court judges. In other words, if a simple multiple of debts is involved, a criminal conviction may be brought against the votes of the Supreme Court judges. In theory – and this is in theory – this can open up politically motivated judgments. We assume that an important idea behind the change in the national court institute was just to make it less political, and to reinforce the demands for legal certainty for those seeking punishment. It is such that a requirement for a qualified multiple, e.g. two thirds, as in the United States’ national law system, will ensure that at least one Supreme Court judge has to vote in favour of a criminal conviction in the Court of Justice. In our view, this will contribute to increased legal certainty while being in line with criminal practices in law enforcement. Let me just make it clear that, in our view, the requirement of qualified plural debt on the issue of punishment should apply. The requirement of a simple majority shall continue to apply to claims for damages and to compensation for costs incurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e113	The left is not a member of the Control and Constitutional Committee. I think that's why it's right to clarify our vision. Our view is expressed by what has been promoted from this pulpit by the representative of Sørfonn, and is also covered by the comments included in the vote. The left will therefore vote in favour of the proposal raised by the representative of Sørfonn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e128	We shall then be voting on the proposals put forward under case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e136	A proposal has been made during the debate, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 5 February 1932 No. 2 in the case of the national court proceedings, the following amendment shall be made:§ 11 first sentence shall be replaced by:In order for a penalty to be imposed in the judgment of the Court of Justice, at least 7 of the members of the judicial tribunal must have voted in favour of a conviction. In determining whether compensation for damages or compensation for costs of action is to be ordered, a majority of the members of the judicial system must have voted in favour of a case. In the case of other decisions, the vote of the President shall be taken if the votes are equal.’;» The left has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e544	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e554	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20-lower.ana.ud1199e594	Thus, today's map has been processed.
