ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e61	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 99]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e77	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 100]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e93	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 35 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each lot. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e102	The government has put forward proposals to introduce a special waiting guarantee for children and young people with mental health problems and young drug addicts under 23 years of age. The Committee stresses that these are vulnerable and vulnerable groups and that experience shows that to date they have not always received a satisfactory offer in the specialist health service. In Document No: 3:7 for 2006-2007, the National Audit Office’s survey of the supply of mental health problems to children and young people was strongly criticised by many factors — waiting time, quality of treatment, lack of available data and a number of other factors. The study also showed that services varied widely from region to region and also within the same region. Paragraph 2-2 of the Patient Rights Act states that when a patient is referred to a hospital or specialist outpatient clinic, the patient has the right to have his or her health status assessed within 30 days. For children and young people under 23 years of age, the deadline for evaluation will now be set at a maximum of 10 days. If the patient is entitled to the necessary health care, an individual deadline shall also be set for the time limit within which this assistance is to be provided at the latest. In the case of children and young people under 23 years of age, an individual deadline shall continue to be set, but no one shall now have to wait more than 65 working days. It is also the case that the maximum time limit will be considered to be lower when the assumptions justify it. If the treatment period is exceeded, the patient shall be entitled to treatment at other health establishments, private treatment centres or abroad. An obligation is also introduced for regional health establishments to designate the number of institutions or departments required to receive patients in need of acute or immediate drug treatment. Rapid and early treatment can help prevent a long life of disease, intoxication and crime, and, therefore, lack of treatment can have major human and social consequences. A unanimous committee is therefore in favour of introducing a waiting period guarantee both for the assessment of health status and for further treatment. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that there is a need for a wider range and more specialised treatment provision. These patients must be given a real right to choose between several alternatives under free hospital choice, and not only when time-limits arise. The members of these parties have registered the reluctance of the Government and health companies to resort strictly to the use of private contract specialists and day-to-day treatment services, which will be necessary to comply with today’s decision — if this is not to have adverse distortive effects. An overall committee refers to the positive offer given at Capio Anorexia Center in Fredrikstad, and believes that this is an offer that must continue to exist. The clinic has applied to be approved as a hospital, and wants to enter into free hospital choice, but with today's system will also depend on agreements with health care establishments. The Committee has highlighted the importance of maintaining different treatment and rehabilitation services for drug addicts. This applies to both LAR and drug-free offers with rehabilitation. The Party considers that institutions without fixed agreements with health undertakings should also be eligible for use. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, point out that there is a great deal of professional competence in the DPS and in the municipalities, and that there is still a great lack of medical and psychological specialists. More effective public treatment provision is expected by increasing the use of working time for patient-oriented activities. The members of these parties also believe that the hospital economy is overly governing the offer given, leading to an overly high threshold in order to obtain specialised or 24-hour services. An overall committee considers it important that the evaluation be carried out by psychiatrists or psychologists. The Committee believes that continued strengthening of the competences of municipalities needs to be continued, and that it is necessary to consider continuing to raise the profile of psychiatry. Without major changes in treatment provision, the members of the Progressive Party and the Right see a danger that the number of people entitled to treatment and the quality of treatment will be adapted to the existing treatment offer and not vice versa. While no direct economic impact is expected as a result of the introduction of the waiting time guarantee, the Progress Party is doubtful about this and has therefore invested 100 million in its alternative budget. extra in psychiatry drugs aimed at children and young people. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, assume that the Government is following up with the necessary appropriations to ensure that such a guarantee does not have a negative impact on other age groups within the same diagnosis group, and requests that the regulation be submitted to the Stortinget before it is implemented. I would also like to raise the proposal that the Progress Party has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e140	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e143	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good and orderly presentation of the matter. The right starting point to support the proposal for a waiting time guarantee for children and young people under 23 years of age with mental or drug dependence is that we are open to testing all possible tools to improve the availability and quality of the supply of mental health protection for children and young people. There was also the background to the support of the Right in 2005 for a proposal to assess whether a waiting guarantee for the treatment of children and young people with mental illness could be an appropriate tool to reduce the waiting time for treatment. If we look at the Riksrevision's study on the offer to children and young people with mental problems, which was dealt with in the Stortinget yesterday, up to the issue we are dealing with today, I'm a little in doubt about a guarantee is the right answer to the challenges of child and youth psychiatry. I am in doubt that it will lead to improvements in the offer to children and young people, if there are no other measures in addition. It does not increase the number of places, it does not change how many patients a psychiatrist or psychologist meets per. today, and it does not change the interaction and cooperation challenges. The National Audit Office’s survey showed that there are too long waiting times, treatment quality is too variable, and there is a lack of available data on the need for outpatient services. It turns out that the coverage is too low and the overview of the use of the appropriations is too poor. The national audit also demonstrates that waiting list data only applies to the patients who are being offered, not to those who are being rejected. The proposal for a waiting guarantee also involves a breach of what has been in force up to now, namely an individual assessment of the need for assistance to determine when to start a treatment. The reason for the long wait is not problematic, nor is there any suggestion on how the government will remove the bottlenecks in the psychiatry. It also appears that most of the hearing bodies are also sceptical about the proposal, because it will not lead to more treatment sites. As I said at the outset, the Right is nevertheless positive to support the proposal for a separate waiting guarantee for children and young people under the age of 23, because we are willing to use all the tools in the hope of success and to give children and young people a good offer. However, we also see that a certain amount of goods for individual groups to be prioritised on the basis of age, not on the basis of professional assessments and the need for health care. I would like to ask the Council of State to follow this situation very closely and to have close contact with health companies and municipalities. The right considers that the waiting time guarantee needs to be accompanied by increased availability of treatment capacity and improved competence. Other measures that I would like to ask the Council of State to assess are extended opening hours for paediatric psychiatric services, an increased number of daily places for children and young people and increased professional and financial resources for outpatient teams. In addition, I believe it is essential to strengthen the professional competence of the municipalities. The Committee has also asked the Government to review the continued designation of the funds for psychiatry until this is put in place. Moreover, the Right believes that it is important to use the capacity of private psychologists and psychiatrists, and, of course, in the public domain. We have received many feedback that there is no capacity available, especially in the private sector. I refer to the Council of State's answer to my question in the Questionnaire on 22 November 2006 on monitoring the treatment capacity of child and youth psychiatry, when she said the following: "I think the most important thing about children and young people is to use the entire capacity we have, it's in public, where I think it's something to go on, or, to the extent that it's there, in private. That's what we're now trying to map." A year later, I have still not registered that this screening is available. Right now, we are promoting a proposal asking the Government to monitor the availability of treatment capacity in child and youth psychiatry and to present the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate way. I'm addressing the proposal promoted by the Right. I also deal with the proposals on which the Right is the co-rapporteur. At the same time, I would like to warn you that the Right will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e170	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e173	There are many children and young people who are struggling to deal with everyday life. Many of them may feel trapped in a world of anxiety. These people need help quickly, because they're a very vulnerable group. It is of great importance to address mental problems as quickly as possible, both to help those with difficulties and to prevent problems from becoming greater than is necessary. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Government's proposal for a waiting guarantee. But for the Christian People's Party, it is important to see this proposal as a first step on the road to children and young people not experiencing waiting time to be treated for mental problems. There are several provisions that need to be put in place to achieve the goal of no waiting time for mental health care for children and young people. Firstly, there must be a strong commitment to prevention. One needs to facilitate the provision of free leisure time, so that children and young people can avoid drug problems such as alcohol. can cause major mental problems. Available adults who can be pictured, and a possibility of both seeing and being seen, are important. Among other things, voluntary organisations need to provide a good framework for this. Secondly, low-threshold services are of great importance, with the school staff in a special position. Accessibility of school services needs to be increased, including: through better opening times and better provision of help on the Internet and via SMS. But one must also, as far as possible, ensure firm professionals, in order to build up confidence and probability. The psychiatry escalation plan has given a positive effect to several annual health care services. This is what we want to continue. Thirdly, an evaluation shows that early intervention against children and young people with parents with mental and drug problems can be of great value. The Christian People's Party has proposed in its alternative budget a strengthening of measures for precisely these children. Fourthly, the Ministry of Health and Welfare must follow the reference made by the National Audit Office in its reports, if there is a lack of treatment for children and young people in need of mental health care. One of the main challenges facing the health sector today is the need for interaction between healthcare services to ensure that patients receive a better health supply. It also applies in the field of mental health protection. Patients have to meet a whole range of services, where child and youth psychiatry cooperates with health centres, PPTs, schools, kindergartens, permanents, etc. The funding system for the services must then support this objective. This is not good enough today. Ambulant activities and thus time for transport, meeting and contact between health professionals at different health levels and services, writing of reports and individual plans are activities that need to be included in the organisation of the treatment system and priorities. Furthermore, the transfer of competences between levels of health services should also be a priority task in order to provide patients with better treatment and provision. These are not activities that can be easily measured. There must be a height for the design of the funding system. This is a vulnerable group of children and young people who have difficulty meeting everyday life. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore important that efforts be made to ensure the best possible treatment, so that children and young people receive good and qualified help as quickly as possible. Finally, I take up proposal No. 4 in the setting, to map the school health service provision and, on that basis, to assess the need for a national minimum standard for the school health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e196	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e199	I'm not going to go up a long debate on mental health or the whole drug issue. But I want to say that I share the Hareide representative's description of how important it is to do good prevention in order to avoid young people becoming drug addicts or experiencing severe mental health problems, so prevention is a very important area. A lot of what we're dealing with in the area of health, is about repair, so pulling up lines in relation to prevention we should do a little more often, I think. This bill is important because it concerns children and young people – vulnerable people. It is therefore important to provide a separate guarantee. It is important to help children and young people out of a disability as early as possible, once a person has become ill or has become addicted to drugs. A waiting warranty believes many are of little value. But I believe that when Stortinget adopts a waiting guarantee for children and young people in these two areas, there is also a clear and clear signal from the legislator that this is a priority and a clarification that society wants to set up for this group. We believe that providing a guarantee for children and young people will not weaken the offer to others and in a few days we will adopt a health budget that will strengthen the provision of mental health protection and care and treatment services for drug addicts. I would also like to say that the supply of mental health protection and care varies between regional health companies. The reasons for this are complex, and it is precisely for this reason that it is important that this guarantee comes in the form of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e210	The left has four profile areas. One of these is social responsibility. Our point is, more to those who need it the most. It is precisely those who need the most, who are the main people today, namely children and young people under the age of 23 with mental illness or who are drug addicts. That is why it is an important matter we are debating today. The purpose of the case we are dealing with today is to strengthen the rights to health care provided by the specialist services for a very vulnerable group. Verchemidla – for which there is a reasonable consensus – is among other things. a shorter assessment period, a special treatment guarantee and a better interaction between the level of municipal health services and the level of specialist health services. I could probably have dragged it any longer, but I shouldn't. Yesterday, Stortinget deals with the Riksrevision's study of the supply of children and young people with mental health problems, Document No. 3:7 for 2006-2007. I'm not going to go into it that much. But the main impression from the investigation, and also from yesterday's debate, is that we have a long way to go before we can say that the provision of this vulnerable group is satisfactory. I'm afraid it's easy just to talk and make plans. But what's important is to get action done. One thing that the Riksrevision report revealed was that there is enormous variation in the perception of what is perceived as reasonable waiting times around the treatment system in our country. I believe that the issue we are dealing with today about a waiting period guarantee and an assessment deadline will be a positive contribution to strengthening patient rights for a group of patients who absolutely need more attention. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united on a note related to an offer description of drug treatment in Health South-East. There is a concern here that the supply documents are getting too narrow and that the possibility of getting school and individual treatment is shrinking. Here, the government needs to follow closely to ensure that the individual drug user is provided with the best possible supply and tailored to their individual needs. For the Left, it is important to fight against drug abuse and not against the drug user. Therefore, we are concerned with harm reduction and a flexible and individual approach to the individual drug user. We need a mandatory escalating plan for the drug field with sufficient financial resources. There is a need for more fresh resources for emergency services, and a new treatment route is needed. After detoxification, drug users must enter either outpatient or other treatment within a short time. The health service within the care system must count in relation to obtaining specialist competence. There is also a need to provide firm medical services as part of outpatient themes. On the left, I think that certain people have to be able to apply for LAR treatment for their patients. LAR patients need adequate housing and rehabilitation outside the drug setting, and the LAR system needs to provide health care. We need more flexibility and a smaller bureaucratic treatment network, and we need to be able to increase the height of aberrations, and reintroduce drug users after an aberration. Finally, I would just like to announce from the Left's side that we want to support proposal No. 5, presented by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e229	Children and young people with mental health problems and young drug addicts are vulnerable and vulnerable groups, which has also been discussed by several speakers today. We know that the waiting time for treatment in specialist health services is too long for some places in the country and that there are too many variations between health regions. We can't accept that. And that is the background to the Government's proposal to introduce this special waiting guarantee – in particular to give priority to this group of young people who so much need our extended hand. This is based on the recognition that children and young people need help as early as possible, so that they can prevent mental illness, drug abuse and other problems. Still waiting about 40 pst. in children and adolescents entitled to treatment, more than 65 working days before starting treatment. The waiting period guarantee will ensure that these children and young people receive prior treatment, and this is a significant improvement in the offer compared to today. I would like to stress that children and young people in need of help and treatment should receive it — as quickly as possible. If the Stortinge will join this proposal – it seems that the Stortinge will, and I am pleased – no one will wait longer than a maximum of 65 working days. There is a clear strengthening of children's and young people's rights, and I am pleased that there is an overall health and care committee that will join the Government's proposal. But we are going to do more than this, as several speakers have also said: we need to strengthen the interaction between the various services. We need to improve referral procedures. We need to get a better follow-up in the waiting time of those who have to wait for some time, and the resources in our outpatient clinics need to be exploited in an even better way. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has been commissioned to take action in all of these areas I have now mentioned. Regional health businesses have been given money to prepare the job to wait further down. Implementation of the Roadmap for Mental Health, through, inter alia: More low-threshold municipal services, the development of outpatient services and the provision of information and awareness-raising services in schools are also of major importance in the overall effort. School health is a very important keyword. We know that many children and young people can get help much earlier if they can talk to other adults when they can't talk to their parents about the problems, or when they might not dare or want to talk to their friends. Then it is important that what most kids are spending many hours a day — at school — is adult that they have confidence in. That's why, like several of those who have spoken here, I think it's unusually important to strengthen the school health service. What the Storting is likely to adopt today — I allow myself to say that, President — is a significant strengthening of children's and young people's rights. And it's a substantial strengthening of the rights of some of those who have it the most difficult in our country. I would also like to say a few words about other elements of this matter. When the Storting adopted the drug reform in its time, Stortinget strongly stressed that drug addicts should have patient rights, in line with other patient groups. As you know, the government proposes a number of changes to a number of provisions of the Patient Rights Act – to clarify the rights of this patient group. And it's based on the realization that it probably hasn't always worked like the Storting said it would work. If a drug dependent is to be offered LAR treatment, a professional assessment of the state of health and of the need for treatment must be available. LAR patients receive strong addictive drugs. Therefore, as the Government sees it, we need to assess whether we need specific rules for LAR treatment. For example, LAR should not be the first choice in treatment. Most patients should first try drug-free treatment – before possibly switching to LAR. That is why we have proposed a new basis in the Patient Rights Act that allows for such rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e254	I would like to ask the Council of State about the following: There were some concerns during the hearings — that the threshold for assistance could be too high and that the frequency of consultation could be too long, in order to avoid time-limits. But there was also a great deal of concern for the 23-year-old group, which could be at risk of getting a worse offer. Especially were those who are seriously ill, who have a serious diagnosis, or those who have a long history of drug abuse. What will the Council of State do to ensure that these unfortunate conditions do not arise, especially with regard to them over the age of 23? Are there today good measurement indicators that will reveal this and ensure that it does not happen — whether there is a distortion in the offer to them over 23 years old, or that the younger ones get a worse offer by being fed too badly, or that they are rejected?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e263	The whole objective of this waiting guarantee is to give a better offer, to strengthen the rights of young people under the age of 23 and to wait for the shortest possible time. I'm glad that from the budget setting it seems that the Stortinget, with the amount contained in the government proposal, will join in the implementation of the Mental Health Escalation Plan next year. The sum of that and what will also be given to hospitals will help us manage to introduce what will be adopted here. I'm supposed to be following closely with the group over the age of 23. We have no wish – and there is no objective – for them to have a worse offer because of this. I think it's manageable within the framework set at the disposal, to do this in other ways to get the waiting time down. There are a number of good examples around the country that you don't have any waiting time. I believe that these places must be good examples for those places in the country where they are unfortunately waiting too long today. And I'm going to contribute what I can, so that this is going to happen in the best possible way for everyone across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e272	I'm very pleased with the signals that the Council of State gives on the priority of the school services. The Christian People's Party also supports this proposal, because we believe that this is a significant strengthening. We also think that this is a first step on the way to achieving the goal that we actually don't have any waiting time for this group. Does the Council agree that this must be the political long-term objective? I would like to give the Council of State the opportunity to set such a target, if it agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e277	I fully agree that children and young people who need help will get help as quickly as possible. I also fully agree with Mr Hareide that they should get help at the lowest possible level as early as possible. Then there are several places around the country where you have shown that it is possible not to have waiting times. Kristiansand is just one example – and just to give a few clues about it: they have intakes every day, they are all taken for assessment, and it is minimal with free time. Good work has often been done in municipalities, so it is easy to assess each patient. So Kristiansand and Arendal and others. are good examples, and the objectives are seaworthy for the shortest possible time. And if it's possible that there's no waiting time, it's usually also very desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e284	Yesterday we talked about the Riksrevision report. The Council of State was present, and said, among other things, one should take the report most seriously. There were a lot of things that were kind of negative, we have to admit that. There was one thing that was said in the report on the individual plan and how little this was used for the mentally ill youth we talked about: the report said that no one knew who was responsible for it. That's the point. And then the council says she's going to clarify who's responsible, it's going to be done pretty fast and crazy – I almost said. My question is: does the Council have any timetable for when this preparation of responsibilities is ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e291	Let me first say that the government has the ambition to do things quickly, but not wrong, so that's clear. So I think it is very critical that the rules that apply to people who want to have an individual plan are not followed up. I also believe that it is a bit to hide behind something when someone says that someone does not know who is responsible. But at least to clear it out of the way, we're going to help clarify who's responsible for that happening. So, in particular, I would like to say the following: As the representative is probably familiar with, we are now proposing in the escalation plan to help people with drug problems that we start trials with trustees to help people who need treatment, rehabilitation, work – whatever it may be – through the system we have, and also with individual levels. I wish that was an unnecessary proposal, but unfortunately we are there that there is one contribution in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e300	I am pleased that the Council of State here states that one will follow developments closely, so that those over 23 years old do not receive a lower offer as a result of this guarantee. But the main problem here is that we have a shortage of professionals. We have a lack of psychologist specialists. We have the same thing about psychiatrists. Then my question to the Council of State is: how can we – with the limitation we have attached to the number of professionals – ensure that we do not get exactly this distortion when giving one group a guarantee, while others do not have the same guarantee? As a follow-up to this, I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State also take in particular two measures: point 1, be even more active towards public employees, psychiatrists and psychologists, so that more patients are treated and seen per year. today – that’s a well-known issue for the Council of State as well – and paragraph 2, make sure that the non-contractual private person is also used so that patients get the best possible offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e311	First of all, I believe that the children and young people under the age of 23 that we are talking about here are among the most vulnerable among us. That is why I am pleased that a unanimous committee agrees that we give them a guarantee. But it should not be at the expense of others. But when we're talking about addiction or mental disorders, it's a fact that if you don't get help as early as possible, it will usually get stronger later, which means that there may be violent problems later in life. As far as the question of professionals is concerned, it is clear that we have challenges here, especially in parts of the country. First of all, I think it's part of our professionals who have to find out about treating more patients per day. Day, per day week. I also believe that we should use the capacity that lies both in the public and in the private sector, when that makes sense. That's why we've asked the Social and Health Directorate to launch a survey of what resources we've seen in that area. But we're not going to rest on any kind of laurel pending that. We're going to do what we can to go through the entire arrangement of contract specialists, and it's a matter of course also of the professionals we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e318	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e323	According to the proposal, figures from the first half of 2005 show that for patients entitled to health care in the field of mental health protection for children and young people, health care started only half after 60 days, and within 100 days only 70 pst. have been given a treatment offer. Figures from the Norwegian patient register, which is also reproduced in the proposal, show that the waiting time in the last tertiary paediatric psychiatry in 2006 ranged from 0 to well over 200 days. Over 40 pst. Waited for more than 90 days – or 65 working days, to which the Council of State had come. These figures show that the waiting time in paediatric psychiatry is long. Talking about young people at a possibly particularly vulnerable stage in life suggests that improving the situation is particularly important. The waiting time is too long, both for young people with mental illness and for young people with drug dependence. According to the Ministry, waiting times vary too much between health regions. We have to get both of them. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will: ‘contribute to reducing the waiting time in the paediatric psychiatry by introducing a separate waiting guarantee for children and young people with mental illness’. I am very pleased that we are now receiving a waiting guarantee for children and young people under the age of 23 who have either mental or drug dependence, or a combination of both. Reduced waiting time in childhood and youth psychiatry has been an important matter for the Workers' Party for several years, it has been an important matter for my friends in the AUF, and it has been an important matter for me. Two years ago I used my first post on this pulpit to discuss the matter of a waiting guarantee. I am pleased that we now have an attitude that is mainly promoted by a joint committee. The law will now give young people the right to have their health status assessed within 10 working days, and the right to treatment within 90 calendar days. Individual needs need to determine whether to give individuals an even faster assessment or emergency response. The waiting period guarantee shall not lead to a distortion of resources so that they over the age of 23 do not receive the assistance they need. Many will likely feel that 90 days are also long. I mean that too. But I still think the important thing now is that this is a long step in the right direction. The last four months of 2006 had an average waiting time of 88 days. That means that many waited a lot longer. As I said, there were those who waited over 200 days. In the future, no one shall wait more than 90 days. The experience with the decision we are making today will eventually show when we can take new steps further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e347	We know that more and more children and young people are struggling with mental problems. 20 pst. children and young people suffer from mental distress at all times. Children down to kindergarten age have serious mental problems. The most common cause of death among young men is suicide. Today we are dealing with a bill that ensures a separate waiting guarantee for children and young people. This is, as the previous speaker was about, a direct follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration. I am pleased with that of course it is that the government is following up its own promises, and glad that there is an overall committee that is behind the setting at this point. It is important that a waiting guarantee for young people does not go beyond the treatment of other groups. At the same time, we know that children and young people today often have to wait longer than adults. Therefore, a ventitime guarantee for young people under 23 years of age is correct. This case is far too serious for us to have a political draw here. The matter is also too serious for us to settle down on introducing a waiting guarantee for treatment. I'm startled by the developments we've seen in the population in general and in children and young people in particular. If we're going to reverse this development, it's not just helping what we're doing with the treatment. Then we have to go to the root of the problem. How can we prevent people from experiencing mental problems in the first place? The crucifixion that children and young people in particular are exposed to today is massive. Never has the focus on success been more prominent than today. The demands and expectations of parents, school, friends, TV, the Internet and many other factors constitute a pressure that many cannot resist. Exposure from different channels increases the difference between being inside and being outside. Is this a society we want? Studies show that mental health disorders occur more frequently in those with low income and low education. Men with low incomes have a double risk of developing mental disorders in relation to men with high incomes. In women, education is equally decisive. This tells me that it is still important to reduce social disparities in Norway. We need more policies to strengthen the community and to balance differences. The government's impoverishment is a right and important piece in this. It's hard to be young and not have the same opportunities as they around you because your parents or your parents don't have good advice or because you come from a less resourceful family. More attention needs to be paid to prevention — school, sport and leisure. Especially is the school important, because it's an arena where everyone meets. Low-threshold services such as school health are important – I share the Christian People's Party's view of it. But here, however, the municipalities have to take their share of responsibility, since the school health service is a municipal task. The goal must be early to capture and help quickly, so that people do not develop more serious problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e364	I just want to clarify that the Christian People's Party will join proposal No. 5, from Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e369	The debate has shown that there is a very large consensus in the Stortingen relating to this matter. Previous speakers have used the arguments that are being used, so I'm not going to say anything more than that I'm looking for these things to come into place, and that even more people get help – which they actually need. In the interests of the Minutes of the sitting, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities also wishes to signal that we support proposal No. 5, tabled by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e376	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 100]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e392	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 102]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e400	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e466	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e476	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e534	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e544	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e552	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, from Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the specific rules on medically assisted treatment in the regulation will continue to require that drug-free treatment be tested, preferably several times, and that this can only be waived in exceptional cases. [[LAR]] The rules for LAR contained in the regulation must also require controls for urine samples, requirements for individual levels and requirements for the patient to have long-term use of drugs behind them, and that current printing criteria are included in the regulation.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, says: ‘The ruling asks the Government to consider an introduction of the right to coercive treatment of LAR patients who are pregnant.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a survey of the nature of the school health service provision around the country and, in view of this, to assess the need for a national minimum standard for school health services.’ Proposal No. 5, from the right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to monitor the availability of treatment capacity in child and youth psychiatry and to present the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e681	Section 2-4, first paragraph, second sentence, contains an alternative proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 63 on patient rights, the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2-4 shall be replaced by the following:It is not a prerequisite for the institution to be owned by a regional health undertaking or to have an agreement with a regional health undertaking providing the patient with such a right of choice, but for the overall capacity of authorised institutions to be exploited.» The right has announced that they will support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e820	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e829	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e846	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e884	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e894	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04-lower.ana.ud1581e924	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed.
