ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e51	The representative of Laila Bavøy, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e60	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e76	The setting shows that there is an almost unanimous committee behind the work that Norway is doing in the United Nations. There are just a couple of comments the Progress Party is not in, and the party will probably sail to explain why. I think it is good that the Stortinget gets such a comprehensive report, so that we have the opportunity to discuss and express our views on the work of the United Nations. It is important to point out that it is in particular small countries, such as Norway, that we have a United Nations-led world order and not a situation where nations are making their own arrangements or trying to go beyond the United Nations, such as the United Nations. President Bush has now signaled that the United States will do on climate issues. That's why it's a challenge to make the United Nations work to solve the important issues we're facing today. How are we going to solve the problem of poverty, how are we going to solve the climate and environmental challenges, war and peace and disarmament issues and human rights issues? That is why it is so important for the UN to have more say and take initiatives, and to be able to solve the challenges whether they are in Afghanistan, in the Middle East or in Africa. It is a challenge for rich countries such as Norway to play an active role, and it does so in Norway. That's what this report shows. The Government announces to the Storting a setback for some of the reforms adopted at the 2005 General Assembly. There have been trends in attempts at rematch, for example: in the work of the Peace Building Commission and the Human Rights Council. The theme for the 2006 general debate was the implementation of a global partnership for development. In his last opening post as Secretary-General, Kofi Others focused on security, development and human rights. The reform process has been a recurring theme, and we should note that the High Level Panel, which was led by, among others. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, handed over the report «Delivering as One» to the General Assembly. Current Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in his speech to the General Assembly on 16 April this year that there is a broad consensus that the UN can do much better in the countries of the United Nations. The organisation is considered fragmented and weak at the country level, he said. It is this challenge that the High Level Panel proposal seeks to solve. It proposes a more comprehensive UN at country level, and better organisation of the units to help create a more efficient organisation in the countries where the UN provides assistance. It remains to be seen whether the UN is successful. Some countries have been designated as pilot countries, such as Mozambique, like Marit Nybakk and I visited in January. Let it be said that despite the many weaknesses of the United Nations, much of the help reaches people in rural areas, whether it is to the poor, it is to the young or it is to the HIV/AIDS sufferers. But the UN needs to become more powerful to complement the very central role the organisation has, and will have, in the development work. After several NGOs and women activists had mobilised and made input to the reform process, the High Level Panel made a clear recommendation that the UN reform process must include a gender and gender perspective. There is a need for a woman's own organization, a woman's own unit in the United Nations, and it is a pleasure that this is now supported by Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon. It is important that Norway, which otherwise has a clear view of resolving the poverty problem with the women’s eyeglasses, is now actively following up and allying with those countries that have the same understanding. There is a clear need for the establishment of a clearer UN structure for women and equality. As this work is being carried out today, it is too weak and characterized by a fragmented structure that is both understaffed and underbudgeted. It is important to note that the UN General Assembly discussed an important report on violence against women. Many reports show the serious problem, and this report received a lot of attention. The Committee states in its opinion that it is concerned that the negotiations on the resolution on corruption showed that some countries ‘are not willing to take the necessary measures’. It is good that our own Minister of Development and the Government are so clear that a force must be taken on both corruption and tax havens, for this can be seen in the context. This work must be brought even stronger into the United Nations. Tax Justice Network proves that global tax evasion is a disaster for the poorest countries. These go missing $3,000 billion each year in lost tax revenue because of tax evasion and tax competition. Corruption would not have been possible without hiding the money anywhere. Therefore, an offensive against tax havens and against corruption is so important in achieving the Millennium Goals. One of the biggest challenges facing the world is man-made climate change. But precisely because climate change is man-made, it is possible for the nations of the world to do something with them, so that generations after us can also have a land they can live on. Norway has been active in discussions in the United Nations on the environment and sustainable development. Discussions on the climate resolution were demanding – and the result, unfortunately, was disappointing. It is also in this context a challenge for rich countries to show willingness to act both nationally and locally, and to take responsibility globally. More than ever, the forces that fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and for disarmament are needed. That is why one must also include in the reform process a reinforced fight against non-proliferation and for disarmament. Norway’s involvement in this area has been clear for a long time, including under the previous government. Norway has been, and must be, a driver for the widest possible and most binding non-proliferation and disarmament work. The proliferation of nuclear weapons is a serious threat to international peace and security, and one of the most serious threats to the existence of the planet. It is therefore very good that Norway continues to cooperate in the 7 countries, which are also members of Chile. We were told that yesterday when we met the president of Chile. It is important that the 7-country group progresses as regards the follow-up to the 2000 Conference of Supervisors and the preparations for the 2010 Conference of Supervisors. We know that neither the 2005 Conference of Supervisors nor its UN summit were able to agree on new measures to address the threat of nuclear proliferation. It is important to recognise the link between non-proliferation and disarmament. The danger is to land, as for example. Iran, acquires weapons, and countries like Israel, Pakistan and India, which have weapons, and the traditional nuclear powers do not rust down. It is in this context that we need to see the debate on missile shields and missile defence, a debate which, hopefully, will be further reinforced. It is important, as the Committee points out: ‘Diplomatic negotiations — not the use of violence and terrorism — are essential for a peaceful resolution of conflicts.’ It is very good that Norway raised the question of the use of class weapons. We know that more and more people now join the initiative to get rid of these terrible weapons. In its position, the Committee has addressed many important issues, such as: on human rights and on the alarming situation in Western Sahara. I don't want to mention these questions any more, because they make it clear in the settings. Finally, I would like to say that I am very proud that Norway, both through debate in the UN and through concrete action, by eradicating illegitimate debt, has shown that it is possible – and important – to do something about the debt crisis of many poor countries, to which they are stuck. I made comments on this topic at a conference for parliamentarians – under the direction of the World Bank and the IPU – in South Africa. In such a context, it is a real discovery of the importance of the presence of governments in small countries who are willing to take courageous steps and bring this theme into their home, namely in multilateral institutions, such as the United States. UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e123	The 61st General Assembly has undoubtedly been embroiled by the issue of a UN reform. While this may have led to other important issues falling in the shadow of the attention given to the reform issue, it is clear that it is essential that reform work is followed up and driven forward, and that attention to this crucial roadblock of the UN system is also high outside the UN building. Our goal is to step up Norway's international efforts for peace and reconciliation. The government therefore wants to strengthen the role of the United Nations in the world community. Norway has a general objective and a desire for a more UN-led world order. The UN is often subjected to more criticism than praise in the political debate. The UN is not – and will never be – anything else, more or less than what the Member States make up the organisation and want it to be. Lack of success for the UN is therefore nothing more than a Member State that does not want and does not. The UN is a good, old-fashioned team. The thought behind is that «Together Each Achieves More». It is therefore essential that Member States make their best efforts to make the United Nations team the best possible response to challenges. It is in the interests of the Member States themselves, no one else. The reform debate is just about this: how can the UN team be better able to meet challenges in the future? The High Level Panel, where Prime Minister Stoltenberg participated as one of three panel leaders, presented in November its report on how the UN can be reformed to make the organisation more effective in development, environment and emergency aid. The core of the report and the aim of the proposals presented is for the UN to act as a single player in development work, humanitarian aid and the environment. That is a good and necessary goal. One UN shall be established at land level, with one head, one programme and, if possible, one office and one budget. I think we can establish that the situation in many places today is that UN work in different countries is fragmented due to a large number of UN organisations and offices in each country – with what can be called a potential in terms of coordination. The report addresses and proposes a more coherent policy for the allocation of tasks and resources across the UN system. Norway, of course, supports these recommendations. It is important that we also in the future, when it is now, as the case-rapporteur was concerned, we may seem to be a little busy working to support and implement the report and the proposed measures as an important part of the UN reform process. Norway fully supports the modernisation process. This was also the main objective and focus of Norway's participation in the 61st General Assembly. The further influence and pursuit of reform towards a strengthened, more effective and legitimate UN as a tool for meeting the common challenges of the Member States is necessary if the UN as an organisation is to meet future requirements and needs and to achieve the Millennium Goals. Of events in the 61st session that I personally remember well, 9 October is last autumn. It was the day when North Korea carried out its nuclear testing, despite an international community as a whole and the existing non-proliferation and test stop agreements. Work was also carried out in the United Nations 1st Committee, chaired by Norway, and the debate on the embodiment of and the Member States' condemnation of the bombings. In addition, a historical innovation after the 2005 summit was the establishment of the UN Peace Building Commission, which is responsible for making recommendations on peace-building strategies and measures for specific countries. It is a pleasure to record that the work has started well. The global challenges are completely different today from when the UN Pact was signed. In order for the UN to be the best possible tool for combating poverty in the future and to be a solution to conflict, the UN must become more commercial. It is also a continuous challenge for the UN system to have sufficient legitimacy in, for example, development work. The UN is constantly being accused of having a heavy bureaucracy. The UN is accused of being a blackout and of being an undereffective channel for development and emergency aid. Of course, any accusation of a badly functioning UN must be taken seriously, because a UN without legitimacy is definitely a weakened global tool. But we are not going to accept any groundless criticism of the United Nations system. We often tend to point out the problems and criticisms against the UN as an organisation and forget to talk about the important and crucial job that is done every single day by men and women in the UN service around the world, which is undoubtedly invaluable, and the world would definitely not succeed without it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e155	It has been said very well both by the case rapporteur and by the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen. I'm not going to draw the whole perspective that they drew up. This isn't necessarily an invitation to look at every situation at the United Nations, but I want to take the opportunity to pick up some things that have happened. I very much agree with the case rapporteur when she says that it is a challenge to make the UN work. We all depend on the optimal and best possible functioning of the UN. The representative of the Trettebergstien was also within it. That is why we also agree that this is a need for reform. Bringing the reforms forward, for which I think most people see the need, is one of the challenges. The angle of incidence of how we're going to get it becomes important. We are together with the other parties in the vast majority of comments. I think most of what's happening in the United Nations – I want to take the opportunity to say it – is positive, it's important, and it's a good job. Nevertheless, from time to time we have to take advantage of the opportunity to address problems and challenges that we need to focus on in order to improve the UN. To get the United Nations to become the tool we need in the world society, we have to dry up to focus on the problems. One of the comments we're not in at this time is that we're currently in need of our own women's organization. We fully agree with the issue of gender perspective, gender equality and the role of women in many countries, which is quite different from what we would have liked to see. But if a private organization solves those challenges, we're not sure. The UN is probably not primarily known for lack of organizations, perhaps rather the opposite. In such a context, we would like to draw up an overall debate, discuss and look at the following: are there any organisations we can merge? Is there anything we can put down? Is there anyone who can do their homework more, etc.? We see all too often that you add new things, and there'll be a lot of overlap. We are very uncertain whether it creates the most effective UN. Since we are in the middle of a reform debate, we don't think it's the way to propose new organisations, but that the subject matter is important, and that it needs to get stronger on the UN agenda, we agree. We think that's a better way to address the problems. Even though what I am going to say, does not necessarily concern the 61st ordinary General Assembly, I would nevertheless like to comment that Zimbabwe was chosen to lead the Commission which is going to work on sustainable development. It itself shows some of the problem we're dealing with, and is a challenge for the world community. How do we solve such issues? How do we meet them? How do we deal with the work that Zimbabwe is going to do and that is important? How do we deal with Zimbabwe in such a situation? How can we get into such a situation that a country that is almost a parody is chosen to lead such an important work? We have to take along the joy that Belarus did not have a place in the Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e172	I think the case rapporteur had a very good review of the activity. She pulled out many sides of this. The main impression is that there is a lot of positive work going on. We know that. In previous years, I have used the occasion to deal with this matter to say a part about the development of the evaluation work and on effectiveness. I'll leave it this time. The reason why I asked for the floor to give some consideration is that over the last few years, I have been increasingly given the opportunity to participate in various parliamentary network connections related to the United Nations, and in an increasing number of meeting places. That experience has given me an unexpected impression. I increasingly think that a meeting meets the contradictions in areas that I thought were absolutely fundamental to the joint work of the organisation. We have met this in time, in the sense that when we are travelling, whether as a committee or in other contexts, to countries where democracy and human rights are weak, most people may have signed the UN Conventions on Human Rights, while implementation and implementation are often the same. The test is often the degree to which the legislative body, the courts, is free and can monitor its practice. We know that, perhaps especially in connection with parts of the UN reform work. When, for example: on the problems you have encountered in the work on the new Human Rights Council, one sees that there is also a lot of discussion about values that we thought might be completely fundamental, shared, committed and concrete. This means that in addition to some completely natural contradictions between the north and the south, between the developed and the underdeveloped part of the world, some of the basic values, on which we – or at least I – thought the UN was based, are called into question. That means they're under pressure. Now I am of those who use many opportunities to talk about that we must have great tolerance for the institutions that are built around the democracies and the state apparatus of different parts of the world, where different historical backgrounds, different traditions and religions, different culture – or whatever it is now – can look different. But there are, after all, some basic elements that are common, which are at the heart of what we mean by democracy, and which should be even more clearly so in relation to human rights. I think it is very important that we are further aware that it is not a matter of building up more confrontation, more polarization, around these things, but rather of working with those who are in our own political, democratic cultural circle to gain increasing understanding and commitment to the fundamental values of human rights and the democratic values to be found in the United Nations. We can do that by taking more part, by showing up where we can, both on the part of parliaments and on the part of governments. We might also be able to pay more attention to this in our ongoing work, for example. in the Great Britain, where there is very little UN debate and perhaps some misunderstanding between our expectations of what we believe the United Nations should do when international crises appear, and how much we really think about what we will contribute to the United Nations in the future. So there's a challenge to ourselves. It's about using the meeting places, about taking the job, about making what we stand for, and it's about being visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e183	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the setting on the table. I am pleased to note that there is a great deal of agreement in this Chamber on the broad lines of our work. It is also a strong desire on the part of the Central Party that we should make progress in implementing part of the reform work that is absolutely necessary and that is highlighted by other speakers. Let me take this opportunity to focus on some fields that are not mentioned. It has been working to establish a central Emergency Response Fund, and I am happy to note that from the Norwegian side we have been one of the forerunner nations. If I am not mistaken, it is put in place approx. 250 million. kr. I think we also have to work to try to activate other nations, because there was a significant degree of consensus after the major tsunami disaster that we had to put in place such a fund in order to make an effective effort in the first few hours after a disaster. I hope and believe that we can be able to continue that work. Another important area is the work on maritime law and fisheries. There I would like to stress the importance of what the Government is doing in its efforts to achieve legitimate, sustainable fishing methods, and to stop illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. It's alarming when we see that 80-90 pst. Of what are the marine resources useful to humanity, is actually overtaxed. That we're so lucky that we have a little corner of our globe, the northern part of the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea, where we have – and we shouldn't boast too much of ourselves – some control and balance, is good, but let's keep working on the goal of getting to proper management of the rest of the world's resources. I am pleased to note that it is working to clarify the outer limit of the Norwegian base and to include it in the Treaty of the Law of the Sea. It's a work that's very important, and we'll see updated in time. Like the case rapporteur, I had the pleasure of attending a meeting with the President of Chile, who, with a smile, found that Chile is also involved in the process of getting a ban on class weapons. There I think we have done a good job, and I hope that we can keep up with the intensity of the work that is coming in time – because it is necessary. The last thing that happened in Lebanon clearly shows the unfortunate consequences it has for the people who are being taken by such weapons. I am also pleased that Norway is doing clear work — and has a clear role — to establish binding agreements on fissile materials. There is an important alliance work to launch international negotiation processes in order to achieve the goals we have. It is also gratifying to note that Norway has an active role in achieving international patent agreements in line with the Convention on Biological Diversity. We are on a safe and good footing in that work, and I believe the UN in the time to come will see more clearly than in the past that the role is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e200	Now, when we're going to evaluate the UN job in 2006, we're not going to get away from this reform process that very many others here have been talking about. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has played a very important role here in leading the high-level panel that presented the report ‘Delivering as One’. It proposes a more coherent UN at country level. The objective is to create a more effective organisation in the countries where the UN provides assistance in different areas. However, this is only a small part of the reforms needed. Central Keyword here is a more representative Security Council, a more efficient General Assembly and a more comprehensive effort to prevent and broker conflicts. We also have disarmament measures targeting the most dangerous weapons of our time. Furthermore, there is a need for more modern staff management where employees can also be assigned, transferred and dismissed when the organisation's challenges so require. Almost all the reforms were stopped by different groups of Member States. Sometimes countries in the south will not provide the Secretary-General with support or power to streamline the administration. At other times, there have been major acts that would not increase the effectiveness of the UN to limit the spread of dangerous weapon technology. The work of making the Security Council more representative approaches those who benefit from the current regime. It actually reflects the conditions of power as they were in the world in 1945. I mention this to show what counterpowers you actually face when you're reforming the United Nations system. This is a big task, and it requires a sustained effort by a lot of actors. We must show the political will to move in the same direction. The back of this exercise is the emergence of a new multipolar world order. We see that both China, India, Brazil and Russia are in the process of finding solutions as new major powers. One can be induced to breathe easily beyond the fact that global power will eventually be spread more widely across several countries. We've seen a little bit of that in the post-war period. But there's a lot of danger signals here. The world is becoming more complex and the international institutions are failing. Neither the United Nations, the World Trade Organisation, the World Bank, nor the International Monetary Fund are able to deal with the new conditions of power. Although the world is closely intertwined economically, it is becoming increasingly difficult to find global solutions to common challenges. The UN has traditionally had a strong role in Norwegian foreign policy, as has been said here in the past. The progress party has broken a little bit with this. They have gone out loud and said that it is a corrupt and inefficient UN that “has rather acted as a destructive body for world peace”. I think that's very little nuanced and very little constructive. The UN has about as many employees worldwide as the Municipality of Oslo. Almost never more than half of the resources requested by organisations in their work for peace, human rights and assistance. Despite this, the UN can point to a wide range of important outcomes. We could mention helping to settle or limit the wars in Angola, Sierra Leone, Liberia, East Congo, South Sudan, North Uganda, Nepal and Lebanon. Furthermore, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has been the main driving force behind sending ten million refugees home to safety. This merit list we could have done a lot longer. But instead, I want to say something about the many corruption charges against the United Nations. After several years of intensive investigation, only a limited appeal was made against one central UN official who was associated with oil for the food programme in Iraq. Furthermore, it has been revealed that a handful of officials have received bribes from the Peacekeeping Operations Purchasing Office. All of this is serious. But in relation to the size of the funds that are managed, and the programs that have been implemented, I'm actually going to argue that the UN is probably much less corrupt than most other organizations of similar size. Just a few words about the UN's new Human Rights Council. It shall more effectively monitor the human rights situation in the world. The UN Member States shall, inter alia: be subject to a periodic check. The problem here is that many countries that themselves violate human rights are involved in the Council and contribute to undermining its work. This is one of the areas I really hope the United Nations can clean up. Finally, I would like to stress that the UN is far from perfect. But as we see it now, we have no other option. The left wants an orderly world based on common driving rules and not the strongest right to rule. That's why we need the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e226	I would just like to add a few comments to the debate. The attitude I think is very good, and it follows up the report that the government has given. To the representative of Vallersnes: I think he points to important issues of how we meet values under pressure. I agree with many of the dilemmas he points to, including what he says we must use these frames and meet countries with which we have common values, try to avoid confrontation and try to bridge. It is a paradox that we end up with Zimbabwe in such an important role, but at the same time the dilemma is also the alternative. Is not this way of working on also an opportunity to hang them in, and at least put them under the necessary pressure? To the representative Samuelsen: I want to follow up on the class bombing initiative, where the Lima meeting was important. It's now 69, or let's say 70, states that are involved in this process. There's more than I thought we'd be. 20 of them are countries that do not participate in the CCW process, where this case was previously. Exciting regional initiatives are now being taken for class-bomb-free regions, among others. in Latin America. We have brought with us the world's hardest hit country, Laos, in the process, and constructive work is being done towards the next meeting of the parties. It's an important process. Then I will be allowed to say that I will join the post of the representative of Eastby, whom I believe was committed and precisely around many of the issues facing the UN, and the balances we have to do there – we must not do the best for the good enemy, but work through the UN channels. I must be allowed to make a visit to the Advance Party. I read the settings two and three times to try to find out the comments Siv Jensen made earlier this year in his battles against the UN, and as the representative of Eastby commented here, where it was said that the UN was a destructive body for world peace – quite powerful language usage. I did not find it again in the comments of the Advance Party, and so I thought it was positive. But it could be interesting if the representatives of the Progress Party in participation in various UN events presented the criticism there, it took it out to the international arena with the same language usage, to confront how it was received. That would be an interesting picture. I think it is interesting to see that the Progress Party is involved in such positive comments in the committee position, which I think contrasts with their budget proposals, which are in favour of quite deep and dramatic cuts, which the UN would probably survive, but which would have been a quite significant change in Norway's profile. Then the representative Morten Højlund of the Progress Party was concerned with the one point he wanted to raise, where the Progress Party did not join the majority, that is, this with a women's organisation. There I will be allowed to inform, and I do not know whether this may have been poorly clarified in the basic material of the Government, that there is a proposal exactly in the direction that the Progress Party called for, namely to try to consolidate many programs into one organisation. It has been part of the Prime Minister Stoltenberg's reform agenda, but we are talking here about taking programmes and other part-sessions into one organisation, getting it more focused, more clear and more responsible. If we succeed, with the support of the Progress Party, it has been a positive step.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e243	I took care, in my post, to stress that at the moment we do not see the need for this women's organization, but does it happen the kind of changes that are outlined here, with contractions etc., of course we are willing to reconsider it. Unfortunately, that's not what the story is all about. In the name of the compromise, the new organisations like to come – and then the old ones stay. There's a lot of reasons for that, but I'm not going to get into it. Now this wasn't a broad UN debate, it had a more defined area. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will be sure that when we are travelling – at least in the meetings I have attended, where the representative Jensen has also attended – we have raised criticism in our question form and raised critical questions. We'll keep doing that. It's not only reserved for the domestic Norwegian press, but we think it's a very interesting discussion to bring with us when we travel around and meet the UN. There's a relationship between what we're saying in one place and what we're saying in another place. I underlined that we agree very much, for example. on Norway's approach to this, and our criticism of the UN must not take away the perspective that we stand together on very many important values and the concrete work. At the same time, we believe that it is sometimes important to put things in perspective and really try to push something to make progress – for the sake of the United Nations and for the sake of the world community. If we just let things scour and go, accept it and say yes, yes, that must be so, I'm afraid we can end up in a situation where we get a UN we're not served with. As I also said in my post, what approach we take to the reform work in the United Nations is demanding and difficult. We have said that we should perhaps be somewhat more restrained by the financial support we provide, just to push the UN in a reform-friendly direction. I'd like to admit that these are many dilemmas. I also share many of the perspectives expressed by the representative of Eastby. There are dilemmas, there are challenges, and it is difficult to get this ‘team’, as the representative of the Trettebergstuen spoke about, to work as well as possible. It's not easy, it's a challenge. We are choosing a somewhat different approach to some of these issues than what the Government and the Foreign Minister are doing, but I think we will do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e256	I am often reassured when I listen to the representative, Höglund, because he is soft and nuanced. He says it's not easy, and that's quite right. But my question was that I would like to see the minutes from the meetings outside, if the representatives Höglund and Jensen said what was said earlier this winter, namely that the UN could be a destructive body for world peace. I do not think that is within the tradition of the representative, Mr Höglund, that we agree on most things, and that we want the same thing – because if that is the position, we do not want the same thing. With regard to the fact that you should be careful not to pay money to programmes that you do not trust, that you are critical of the use of other people's money, I believe again that the representative of Eastby had a good point. Continuously, the UN programmes are very good at what else is money use. Here, the Progress Party must tolerate the focus on words and actions and budget proposals, in which it is, in part, a deep cut in the appropriations for what the United Nations is doing, among other things. peace and reconciliation. It'll have an effect. I believe that this is not a theme for a broad UN debate, but it is, after all, a debate on the work of the UN in the last year. And we live this year, we're working with the UN year after year, and then it's not unnatural that we also focus on the principal questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e265	Several have not asked for the floor. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3256]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e285	Yesterday, it was Vesak. It's Buddha's birthday. Therefore, on 31 May, the United Nations is considered to be an internationally accepted religious holiday. The uniform Buddhist church was banned in Vietnam, and it was forbidden to perform ceremonies or to celebrate Buddha's birthday. Those who did, however, were harassed, threatened and attacked by the security police in Vietnam to organise illegal demonstrations. On May 15, 2007, 14 days ago, lawyer Tran Quoc Hien was sentenced to five years in prison and two years in house arrest for peaceful pro-democratic activity. The trial lasted four hours. The lawyer has participated in the Human Rights Organisation working for freedom of expression in Vietnam, Bloc 8406, an organization that has worked to make room for one's opinions. He has also been a spokesperson for farmers and workers through the Solidarity League. On 11 May 2007, lawyers Le Thi Cong Nhan and Nguyen Van Dai were sentenced to four and five years in prison, respectively. On 10 May, there were three other human rights activists who were sentenced to prison sentences for allegedly challenging the Communist Party with a demand for a multi-party system. All this has happened since I handed in this interpellation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about what we are doing about the human rights situation in Vietnam. I don't think it has any connection with the interpellation, but it has a connection with something we see, which is extremely worrying. When the Foreign Affairs Committee was visiting Vietnam in the fall, it was in a situation where it was reported that there were problems with human rights, but that there was a positive development, that there were authorities trying to listen, that there were legal reforms going on, and that the human rights dialogue, although always problematic, was in a positive direction. At the same time, there were two issues that were important in the international field of Vietnam. The country was supposed to be hosting the APEC meeting, which we – already several months before the meeting was due to take place – so when we were in Hanoi, with symbols and the whole propaganda apparatus around. But still important than that was that on 11 January 2007 Vietnam became a WTO member. Much might suggest that the positive development in the human rights field in Vietnam was primarily a façade for the Vietnamese Communist Party and Vietnamese authorities to allow the country to become a member of the WTO. There is no unknown experience in the processes of applying for membership of international organisations, that countries contribute significant improvements and ‘cosmetic operations’ on the surface to convince that there is a positive dialogue. Some of the same things you might see when China applied for few Olympic games. And we have seen it in many countries that have applied for membership both in NATO and in the EU, that the processes tend to stop something once the guarantee of membership has been given. But it's not an excuse. On the other hand, it is a strong reminder that our focus on human rights must continue even after countries have become members of international organisations where they have sought membership. Today, there is a great deal of abuse against human rights activists in Vietnam, and in the last four months this has increased significantly. In February it was a series of arrests that led to these sentences in May. We can worry about developments in the areas of human rights in many countries, but we have an even greater responsibility to worry, take up and engage in active dialogue in the countries to which we are providing assistance, while at the same time contributing to the legitimacy of a country such as Norway providing assistance to help the poor in the country, when the regime is so oppressive. That's why, in my opinion, it's incredibly important that the Government and the entire political environment in Norway speak clearly to Vietnam about how we think the development of Vietnamese society is going. We lend some legitimacy to regimes if we don't publicly criticise evolution. We've seen that the North has experienced some of the challenges in Vietnam's austerity. When the Rafto Prize was awarded to Thik Quang Do, who is under house arrest in Vietnam in the 26th year, members of and employees of the Rafto Foundation were arrested trying to give him the prize and get a conversation with him. We know that others have also been questioned when they've been to Vietnam and tried to address human rights issues. Some of what has come out of the interrogations conducted by people who are Norwegian citizens and who have been questioned in Vietnam are relatively detailed knowledge of what is going on in Norway, what the persons identified are doing, and how it is being worked for human rights in Vietnam in Norwegian society. Many suggest that extensive monitoring and information flows are also being carried out on these activities from Norway to Vietnam, in a way that makes Norwegian citizens with close family members in Vietnam feel uncertain about what kind of surveillance Vietnamese authorities are doing in our society. We have a responsibility to take this seriously too. Because we have freedom of expression, it should not restrict representatives of minorities in Norway to fear represals for the use of freedom of expression to relatives and others in the home country. My interpellation is a challenge to the Government, and I ask the question: What does the Government do in this situation? There's a lot to do. One of the important things is, among other things, ensuring that the legal reform initiated is actually implemented. So in one of the lawsuits that have been carried out this spring, a Catholic priest has been deprived of the opportunity to express his opinion in the trial. At the same time, there is a dialogue to improve the legal system in Vietnam. I believe that we must demand the release of all those who are imprisoned in Vietnam because of their comments, that we press the Government more strongly in this area, and that we use all the international forums to address this issue. I would like to say that there may have been accidents in the relationship with Vietnam on the part of many Western countries, not least from the left – for historical reasons, for example. support for the Communist Party during the Vietnam War. It's time to put this away. It's time to see what the Communist regime is actually doing to its citizens, see that even though Vietnam is a beautiful country, a beautiful holiday resort and a country with economic development, it's also a country that is now more powerful and more repressive to those who want to achieve completely fundamental human rights. I believe that we need to look at how we channel the assistance we provide to organisations and others – to improve the situation of human rights in the country – and get accepted by the Vietnamese authorities so that our aid money should be used not only for poverty measures but also for supporting organisations and others working for greater transparency and freedom of expression. In addition, I believe we need to look at how we can support voluntary human rights organisations in Norway or in the West working towards Vietnam to ensure that there is an external pressure from several other countries. In this context, as in many others, we must take every opportunity to address the human rights situation to the Vietnamese authorities and express our complete disappointment that what was a positive development seems to have been a cosmetic exercise by Vietnamese authorities. Once you're within a WTO membership, you start the repression – perhaps even stronger than in many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e321	I would like to thank the representative of Solberg for drawing attention to Vietnam and the human rights situation in the country. There is a situation where serious setbacks are now being experienced, as the representative has explained. It raises international concerns, including in Norway. I also refer to written questions to me from the representative Tørresdal this week about the same subject. In Vietnam, several representatives of democracy and human rights work have been arrested, and many are under house arrest. However, I would first like to give more general consideration to some of the developments that have taken place in Vietnam – as a hindrance. First of all, I would like to remind you that Vietnam and human rights were, interestingly enough, the theme of an inter-pelling debate here in the Stortinget on 12 March 2004. It was also on 8 February last year that one of the last cases the representative Lilletun took up before he died, the interpellation on freedom of belief and human rights. Then we spent part of the speaking time in the debate on Vietnam. Last autumn, the Foreign Affairs Committee itself visited the country, something that Solberg gave us some impressions. Many people in Norway have a special relationship with Vietnam. Many have had to flee the country, and today they experience that their former home country is being promoted as an economic success story – a country that is becoming an important player in Southeast Asia. Nearly 19 000 Vietnamese live in Norway – the fourth largest non-Western immigrant population in our country. I mention this because after the Vietnam War and until the early 1980s, Vietnam was one of the poorest countries in the world, with food shortages and famines. Inspired by developments in other countries and market economy reforms, including: in China, in 1986 the Communist Party adopted economic changes known as ‘Doi Moi’. From being a cautious opening up in the country's economy, this quickly became a driving force for economic growth. In 1995, an international breakthrough for Vietnam with ASEAN membership, the restoration of diplomatic relations with the United States and the signing of a cooperation agreement with the EU was made. The economic results resulting from Doi Moi are in a special position internationally. Vietnam has had an average economic growth of 7.5 pst since 1990. annual, and is currently one of the fastest growing economies in the world. Many international companies are established; Norwegian companies are now engaged in Vietnam. According to the World Bank, the number of poor has been reduced from over 70 pst. of the population in the mid-1980s to below 20 pst. today. From having had food shortages in the past, Vietnam is today an important exporter of food. Few other countries in the world can point to similar developments. At the same time, economic development has led to considerable pressure on the need for political reform. We recognize this pattern from several countries in rapid development. Not only from the international side, but also from the Communist Party of the country, it is recognised that the political reforms have not followed economic developments. I agree with the representative of Solberg in her observation in the post now, that a reinforced focus is needed on the interaction between political reforms and economic development. Unfortunately, we have to observe that there is a reform work going on, but that it does not give the results you could expect. Norway and several other countries support the reform of central government, in particular through development cooperation. In 2005, Norway’s cooperation with this type of Vietnam amounted to 99.5 million. kr – a significant amount. Much of our commitment is related to the promotion of human rights, as we are involved in major government projects related to public sector reform, law reform, strengthening the country's financial management and other developments in law and justice. State Secretary Anne Stenhammer underlined in his dialogue with Vietnamese development authorities during the visit last month the importance of open processes — and supported civil society and media participation in societal development. In parallel with economic developments, the pressure for political reforms to be seen in the context of political and civil rights is also increasing. Vietnam ratified the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights as early as 1982. Freedom of expression and assembly is enshrined in the Constitution of Vietnam. At the same time, however, freedom of expression is considerably restricted. by the fact that criticism of the Communist Party or expressed wishes for another form of government is punishable. That interpellant pointed to around the marking of a religious celebration, also says a lot about this climate. As the representative of Solberg points out, there was a gradual improvement in the human rights situation in the country in the period leading up to WTO membership. The establishment of political organisations and new policy initiatives was published on the Internet with demands for increased democracy, multi-party systems and respect for human rights. At the same time, an increasing number of Vietnamese joined the various initiatives in the form of signature campaigns. Vietnamese groupings abroad engaged, among others. from our country. It may seem that around the turn of the year, the authorities of Vietnam faced two options: either to accept that the organized political opposition outside the Communist Party has come to stay, or to put in place measures to stop this opposition. Unfortunately, it seems that you have chosen the last one. As a result, a number of human rights defenders and political opposition have been arrested or sentenced to house arrest. Norway has regretted this development to the Vietnamese authorities. We have several times, alone and with other countries, such as the United States. EU, Canada, the United States and Switzerland, protested the arrest of human rights and democracy activists. We have been present in a number of trials. Since New Year's, we have made or handed over eight requests and protests against the negative development of human rights in the country, and I can say, for the sake of order, that these enquiries took place, among other things. on 13 February, 5 March, 9 March, 30 March, 11 April and 11 May of this year – and I may come back to the content of these enquiries. In all such contexts, we call on the Vietnamese authorities in the clear text to facilitate the participation of spokespersons and spokespersons for democracy and the promotion of human rights in the political debate. We point out that increased political commitment is a natural consequence of Vietnam's economic development on the road to the modern industrial community and increased integration globally. We also stress that Vietnam must comply with international human rights obligations and international rule of law. The arrest of Father Nguyen Van Ly, as the representative Solberg mentions, means an escalation in the positions of the Vietnamese side. Father Ly has been serving for over ten years in prison and in house arrest for a year. The last time he was arrested, in 2001, he was sentenced to 15 years in prison and 5 years in house arrest. After pressure from the international community, including Norway, he was released in 2004. Norway handed over a protest shortly after Father Ly was arrested this time, and was present in Hué during the trial against him and four with the defendant. Norway's embassy in Hanoi was also present during the trial against the lawyers Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan. The most recent of these actions took place on 15 May this year, when Norway joined an EU declaration calling for the release of all non-violent political activists who have exercised their clear right to freedom of expression and organisation, as it is also enshrined in the Constitution of Vietnam – this is not an outlying fact. Several legal cases are unfortunately on the way. Our embassy in Hanoi has made it clear to the Vietnamese authorities that they want to follow these trials. The use of démarcher, official protests, is one of several instruments used by Norway in promoting human rights. Vietnam, like China and Indonesia, has its own human rights dialogue with Norway. The main purpose of this dialogue — which started in 2003, and four meetings have been held so far — is to strengthen the country’s implementation of the International Human Rights Act. The dialogue also provides an opportunity to address concrete human rights issues from both sides. From our point of view, we draw expertise and expertise from different disciplines, the judiciary and non-governmental organisations. This gives us a good starting point for going to the depths of concrete, serious issues, such as: use of the death penalty. These dialogues increase knowledge of the countries with which we cooperate and strengthen our bilateral contact points, and we believe that in sum they have a positive impact, as the mention of the dialogue with China yesterday from an expert in the field confirms. Here, I believe it is a good tradition and broad support for the political lead. Let me quote what my predecessor, Jan Petersen, said in his interpellation inserts on 12 March 2004: ‘We have an open dialogue with Vietnam on human rights issues.’ He went on to say: «... we get engaged. And we get involved in this way, I hope, that we're in communication, that we're listening, and that it's possible to get there." And Jan Petersen remembered something important here, namely that ‘it is not enough to express itself in such a way that the Norwegian home public is satisfied, it is also necessary to ensure that the commitment it has really leads to a change, that it makes a difference.’ These are the words I join. The choice of instruments depends on the situation in the country concerned. Now it's going in the negative direction, and we have to re-evaluate the instruments along with the ones we normally work closely with. One-sided measures stand in a special position, as they are most often used as a clear indication in a serious sense — and that has been the case with Vietnam. At the same time, we need to find ways to address this in political discussions. During the dialogue between Norway and Vietnam in Oslo 15–17. January this year, Secretary of State Raymond Johansen addressed the issues of freedom of expression, the role of the media, the development of democracy, human rights defenders, prisoners of conscience, the death penalty and freedom of religion. These are heavy and important themes. As a result of this year's meeting, we are now working to establish police cooperation between Norway and Vietnam on trafficking in human beings, the rights of prisoners and the building of general human rights competences. We have also been consulted by the Vietnamese authorities on cooperation in the reintegration of women who have been exposed to trafficking in human beings. The next dialogue meeting will take place in Hanoi in 2008. Finally, let me say that the representative, Solberg, said about the possible functioning of the Vietnamese authorities in Norway to monitor the views of Norwegian citizens, is an information I want to take with me. Of course, there's something that we find unacceptable, and we need to find suitable ways to find out more about it. So we have to engage along a broad agenda, with other countries, with other organisations, and we also have to look at the dilemma of seeing negative developments in the field of human rights after a country has crossed an obstacle such as entering the WTO. There are no mechanisms in the WTO for that kind of thing, but there are still things we can highlight in the dialogue with the country concerned, namely Vietnam.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e396	I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. I agree that the most important thing we can do about human rights is to ensure that effective instruments are found that do something about human rights in the countries we work against. It is primarily where you have to be concerned, while we are going to be concerned about what I think you should do internationally now, namely express a little disappointment that it seems that Vietnam has suggested something they had not intended to do in order to become members of the WTO. I don't think it's a point to introduce new leads for what a new WTO agreement will involve in this round, but I think it's important to make sure that these issues too are brought in and addressed in relation to what was mentioned in the previous debate, namely the work on human rights for the United Nations, and that the challenges are highlighted. The Vietnamese authorities must experience this not only in direct dialogue but also by pointing out in international forums the challenge of a country that is on a positive path having such a setback because the international sanctions are smaller because it has achieved the desired membership. So I want to say that I haven't taken up this interview because I think the government isn't concerned about it, but because I think it's important that the nation's National Assembly takes a real discussion about this. It helps to manifest that we are concerned with developments in Vietnam, but it's also an indication of, among other things. the fact that many Nordics now experience a certain amount of anxiety after the reports just from those arrested and the interview in Vietnam, where in that context information was presented indicating that they need to have a very detailed knowledge of the Norwegian environment in order to be able to ask the kind of questions asked. I am pleased that the Council of State says he will follow this up, because it is also worrying if there is an activity against human rights activists outside the country's borders from the Vietnam authorities. So I'm concerned that we should find room for how we can help NGOs and independent observers so that they can participate. There are several issues that are important in relation to Vietnam, such as freedom of expression, political pluralism, which, of course, is a challenge to the Communist Party, but also the issue of religious freedom. Not only do Buddhists experience not being able to do what they perceive to be completely natural social work, because it seems provocative to the Vietnamese authorities, but also to the Christians in the northern and mountain regions feel oppressed, and to a large extent it is also felt that it is difficult for international observers in these areas to be able to follow what is actually happening in Vietnam. I would like to thank the Council of State for what he has said so far. But I also want to say that there's room for doing even more, because the situation now requires that you turn down such a negative development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e411	It's not much to add. I agree with the representative of Solberg that it is important to get this case up in Stortinget. I have noticed that in the time I have had the responsibility I have now, we have had several debates on this type of topic. I think that is also important, because it is also noticed both in the country concerned and in our home environment. The relationship that Solberg's representative points out that Norwegian citizens can feel intimidated in some way, I think, unfortunately, is a phenomenon that not only affects the Vietnamese-related part of our population; even other groups can actually experience even worse things, and we have to focus on that. Then, too, with Norwegian assistance and the way in which we contribute to civil society, we need to assess continuously. How are we effective in this? This I think was also something Secretary of State Stenhammer took up during his visit. So there's always room to do more, but the important thing is to do the right thing and find the balance between the dialogue that we have as a country, and what we do with other countries. And then it's to look at this from a perspective: how has the human rights situation evolved in the last year, in the last two years? But do we take a longer perspective, the last 10-20 years – which way does it go? Then I think we have to find this balance between where the general trend is going and where what we can call more economic trends is going. In other words, does this alert the shift we have seen around the turn of the year in connection with the WTO, a new permanent course from the authorities, or can there be any other relationship with Vietnamese policy that is also behind it? It is therefore important that we have an embassy in Hanoi that follows the political work, that we have visits from Norway to Vietnam that can bring about changes in this country, and that we have a close dialogue with other ASEAN countries. In particular, I would like to highlight an important country for us, namely Indonesia, which is a country that has gone quite clearly in a democratic direction and with which we have a meaningful dialogue, because they are once again taking these issues into the ASEAN forum. We also know that countries in the region probably have a greater impact than what we have that is far away. So it's a broad register we have to play on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e425	It is an interesting and important interpellation that Solberg’s representative has gone through — about a sudden deterioration in the human rights situation in a country that really has all the opportunities for both development and prosperity. It is a deterioration that requires both our attention and, of course, our action. Vietnam has had an average economic growth of about 7.5 p.m. over the past 15 years, and is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. This has also led to a strong improvement in people's living conditions. In addition to growth and increased trade, exiles contribute about $6 billion each year — money injected into the Vietnamese economy. Almost no country has had such a decline in the number of poor over a short period of time as Vietnam. As the Foreign Minister also said, from a lack of food, Vietnam is today an important exporter of agricultural products. This is also part of the picture. The importance for social and economic development of their peace since they left Cambodia may not be overestimated. Peace is a prerequisite for growth and well-being. But it is also human rights and democracy – at least in the long run. Peace is fragile, and it requires democratic development with a multi-party system, a good system of governance, democratic institutions and respect for the rights of the individual. That's right now reason to worry. Probably there is an internal power struggle in which the Ministry of Internal Security cares about the reform forces. For there is a reform work going on, both in the party and in the central government – a work that Norway also supports, as we heard. It is extremely important that we maintain good contact with Vietnam in this situation in order to ensure that the human rights situation stabilizes and improves. We need to take the repression seriously, and it is therefore also more important than ever that we keep this contact, that we keep pressure on the development of dialogue with Vietnam – including the critical dialogue on human rights. So Vietnam is not black and white, which I also suggested in the introduction. Thus, in addition to the development of well-being and poverty reduction, Vietnam scores relatively high on a recently published peace index. I think it was actually published yesterday. The Global Peace Index from the Economist Intelligence Unit, who has worked with the University of Queensland in Australia, has produced a peace index of 121 countries based on inner and outer peace. Here thrones for the rest of Norway at the top, but Vietnam is 35th place with France. The index measures the level of armed conflicts and acts of war. But the index also measures security and human security, the number of murders, the number of prisoners and violations or violations of human rights. Vietnam has every opportunity to develop into a country where the population lives in well-being and democracy. Then it is important to look at what can create political change in Vietnam – first of all, of course, that we now have an external pressure. Vietnam is also vulnerable. Exports to the United States are important. Secondly, the dissidents play an important role, and we need to respect them. If someone is doing a real job, it's those who stand up and claim human rights internally. They may be few, but they do have all the wind in the sails, even though we now experience a narrowing in Vietnam. Finally – and we should not underestimate that – we also have internal reform requirements in the party. All of this has to play together, if not necessarily on a team. We have to be in. We must contribute to a political and democratic development in Vietnam that builds on and stabilises the welfare, growth and poverty reduction both by targeting assistance and through an important dialogue on human rights. Finally, I would like to mention a very special matter, because the Minister of Foreign Affairs also dealt with trafficking in human beings. When we were in South China, we were told that Vietnamese girls were shutting in to South China to serve businessmen coming up from Hong Kong. Trafficking in human beings is also part of the human rights violations that it is important that we engage in when we have a critical dialogue or when we communicate with countries – including Vietnam.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e445	I will first of all commend the interpellant, who has addressed this very important issue. I am also very pleased with the feedback from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, where he promised to focus on the matter, and where he also explained what has been done on the Norwegian side so far. As mentioned, unfortunately, the human rights situation is now getting worse in Vietnam. There is a lot of evidence that the rulers were driving a short-lived smear offensive, among other things. prior to the APEC meeting last autumn, and in order to increase the qualification for WTO membership. Human rights and freedom of expression and the press are something we who live in a democracy take for granted. Vietnam, however, is not a democracy, but a Communist one-party state in which the population has little or no influence on social development. However, the country has had a very positive economic development in recent years, as the Foreign Affairs Committee saw when we visited the country in September last year. Like its big neighbour in the north, China, the country has developed industrially and today has a large and growing export to the West. This economic development of the country has had many positive and extensive ring-fences and has brought many people out of poverty, as the representative Nybakk was in place. However, it has not contributed positively to either the development of democracy or the view of human rights in Vietnam. Many even believe that economic development has actually dampened the demand for more influence and democracy. In this respect, we can also see clear parallels to China, where it is also said that economic development is dampening the demand for more influence on the population. The increase in the standard of living for more and more people, the fact that most people get better, means that demands for change and participation are no longer so prominent. Nor should we ignore the fact that both tradition and lack of contact with the outside world of most people also contribute to the fact that democracy development has been and is deficient. I am not going to decide whether all these speculations are correct, but I note that the situation of democracy and human rights in Vietnam is alarming and requires action from the world community. One of those who have felt the abuse of power by the rulers is Dr. Pham Hong Son. In March 2002, he was arrested for writing and publishing articles on democracy and human rights on the Internet. 15 months later, he was charged with espionage and sentenced to 13 years in prison and 3 years in house arrest. The worst crimes he had committed were to translate and publish the article "What Is Democracy", which he had found on the website of the American Embassy in Vietnam, and also sent out his own article "Hopeful Signs of Democracy in Vietnam". The trial against him was avoided in record time, where he was also accused and convicted of having contact with other system critics in and outside Vietnam, as well as distributing information such as the ‘maliciously accused state of human rights violations’ mentioned in the charge. Dr. Pham Hong Son, however, was one of the luckiest, and last fall, during the sham offensive, he was released from prison, even after pressure from international organizations, so then «only» remained three years of house arrest from the sentence. This is just one of many examples of human rights violations in Vietnam – which are now increasing in scope. Unfortunately, the development that last year looked to go in a positive direction now seems to have turned around. There is therefore every reason to call out a warning and focus on the situation in the country even more strongly than before. I therefore assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other representatives of the Government have a clear and unambiguous speech on human rights issues in conversations with the Vietnamese authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e471	The extent of violations of human rights and democratic rules is rapidly increasing in Vietnam. Only in six weeks, since the end of March to the middle of May, 15 pro-democratic activists have been convicted in cases that are anything but fair. I'll interpret it, among other things. as that the Vietnam Communist Party will now withdraw the concessions given to the population, under pressure from the international community, while the country was a candidate for the World Trade Organisation and had the world or at least Asia's searchlight on it from the ASEAN meeting. Since it became a member of the WTO in January this year, Vietnam has not pressed the same pressure to reform. We saw the same trend in Vietnam’s big brother in North China. In the pre-IOC allocation of the summer Olympics, China had a great sarcophagus offensive against the outside world and set free prominent political prisoners known in the rest of the world. Now that Beijing is elected to OL-by in 2008, the charm is turned off and increasingly replaced by paranoia for the rest of the world to see the shadows of the regime. International attention and international exposure have an effect. The two examples here are not unique. The best effect is, however, when the repressive regime wants to achieve something, whether it is an OL or a WTO member. Vietnam's 85 million people experience a combination of increased wealth and fewer rights. I also want to add that far from everyone getting to share in the huge economic growth. It must be a great paradox for the Communist regime in Hanoi that it is the most free economies that have the evenest distribution of wealth, and the same is true for the most democratic states. Vietnam is at the bottom in terms of both. It is a major problem for especially Vietnam's most vulnerable part of the population that Doi Moi, or economic liberalisation under authoritarian control, continues. Women and children are particularly affected by the fact that education and health become the means of payment for each individual to participate in the economy. Trafficking young girls and women is also increasing alarmingly. Often it happens while the police and party officers look away or actively support it. As more and more Northmen view Vietnam as an attractive destination, it must be remembered that this is a brutal dictatorship. There is no free press, the 600 newspapers are all state-controlled, trade unions are not allowed, there are no independent NGOs, there is no freedom of religion, and it is a non-existent civil society. The main problem is that human rights violations in Vietnam are not the result of a violation of the law, but that it is because of the law. An increasing number of laws, decrees, regulations and regulations restrict individual human rights and fundamental human rights. Most dissidents are convicted under Article 88, on propaganda against the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, or Article 80, on espionage. These are both vague paragraphs that usually result in severe punishments. This is particularly alarming because we know that many countries in Western Europe, democracies in Asia and the World Bank have spent the last 10 years trying to get the rule of law into the law. Now the law is being used only more strongly to increase the control of the Communist Party. Norway must use its position much more strongly both as an economic contributor and as a respected member of the world community to release political prisoners, or rather, because Vietnam itself believes that they do not have political prisoners, the people who are in prison for their opinions and opinions, because it is a big problem that as a political prisoner one is being taken to be a common criminal. We must fight for greater freedom of religion. In the case of Buddhists, Christians in the northwest or west, and all other religions naturally, the law must be used to protect rights, not to restrict rights. We need to intensify the human rights dialogue and use every opportunity to address these issues, and we need Norwegian assistance to get measures that contribute positively to the human rights situation, the rule of law and a real democracy. Violations of human rights must not be pointed out for the sake of a home audience, but because we actually want concrete changes out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e492	I would like, like most of the others who have spoken, to thank the interpellant for giving the Storting an opportunity for an in-depth discussion of human rights and to focus on the fact that many countries, including Vietnam, are not dealing with human rights as they are obliged to under signed and ratified UN conventions. When one from Norway has chosen Vietnam as one of the countries with which we have a formalised human rights dialogue, it signals that we are concerned about the human rights situation in Vietnam and that there is a need for clear reinforcements. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very clear position in the answer to the interpellant. The situation of those who work for fundamental human rights in Vietnam, such as freedom of expression and democratisation, is worrying, as many others have said. They are increasingly subjected to harassment and arrests. As late as March of this year, Human Rights Watch reported on the arrest of two human rights lawyers working as spokespersons for putting the spotlight on Vietnam's multiplicity of human rights violations, on which the interpellant was involved. Human Rights Watch also points out how Vietnam, strengthened by international recognition in the form of being admitted as a member of the WTO and hosting the APEC meeting, has now launched the main attacks on peaceful opposition and dissidents of 20 years, as others have also mentioned. In addition, Vietnam is an Asian candidate to the UN Security Council for the period 2008-2009, and in this context pressure should be put on the country to make strong improvements to comply with the UN’s fundamental human rights conventions. This also applies to Vietnam’s relationship with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the fact that so-called social protection centres – or social support centres – run by Vietnamese authorities keep children in custody for a long time and expose them to physical abuse and lack of medical treatment. I know that the Norwegian authorities included children's rights in the human rights dialogue with Vietnamese authorities earlier this year. I hope this was a problem that was also raised. Human Rights Watch has focused in particular on the situation of street children in Hanoi, who are being held in custody in the Dong Dau Centre, where they have to sit with, among others. homeless adults, prostitutes and drug users over periods of up to six months. The report Human Rights Watch, published in 2006, shows that these children lack total protection, and when they leave custody, they are often proposed and are not given any help to return to parents or families. This is a clear violation of Vietnam's obligations under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Another group exposed to human rights violations is the indigenous population. They are persecuted both politically and religiously. One of the groups subjected to such persecution is the assembly houses, which live in central parts of the highlands of Vietnam. Vietnamese authorities force the indigenous people to sign documents where they have to renounce their own religion. Aborigines who continue to practice their religion and participate in religious ceremonies are subject to arbitrary arrest. More than 350 members of the Montagues have been imprisoned since 2001, mainly because of peaceful political or religious activity. I've spent my speaking time focusing on other groups that are subjected to serious violations of human rights, than what was the starting point of the interpellation text. I support the interpellant. But I think it is important to show tension in the abuses, and I would like to encourage that further dialogue between the Vietnamese and Norwegian authorities has a concrete visualisation of an improvement and effective compliance with the obligations of Vietnam by accepting, signing and ratifying the UN's important human rights conventions. The Foreign Minister has shown that both Anne Stenhammer and Raymond Johansen have addressed this in the dialogue with Vietnam. It is important to continue it alongside providing support to those organisations that work for human rights in civil society. One can never get enough emphasis on the importance of building a civil society to respect human rights and democratisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e511	The sight of a secret policeman who, by coercion, holds his hand over the mouth of the Catholic priest Nguyen Van Ly to prevent him from shouting out anti-communist poems during his trial, gives a talking picture of Vietnam's attitudes to political opponents. As said earlier in the debate, not many weeks have passed since the old human rights champion Father Ly was sentenced to eight new years in prison. He took up violations of human rights, and he was sentenced to ‘propaganda against the authorities’, as it is called. Two of his employees were sentenced to six and five years in prison. In Vietnam you have freedom of expression as long as you don't challenge the Communist Party. As the interpellant said, in 2006, Thich Quang Do was awarded the Rafto Prize for his efforts for human rights, but he has not been able to come to get the prize. When a Norwegian delegation recently went to Vietnam and visited him, they barely got the price before the police intervened, and the Norwegian interpreter who was there was arrested. As many of the debaters have been in today, it is that in the interview until Vietnam this year was accepted as a member of the WTO, the country worked intensively to give a good impression to the rest of the world. During a period, there was an improvement in the human rights situation in the country. The government released prominent religious leaders from captivity, proposed some law reforms, simplified the recognition of religious faith societies, and ended mainly with organized measures to force people to renounce their faith. But since Vietnam became a member of the WTO, the development towards greater respect for human rights has largely stopped. Unfortunately, there are signs of setbacks, among others. in the event of a serious attack on human rights lawyers, on those fighting for freedom of expression in general, and on those fighting for the right to freedom of belief and freedom of association and assembly. The interpellant mentioned a number of arrests and judges that have been in ours. On 10 May, three human rights defenders were sentenced to five, four and three years of imprisonment respectively by the National Court of Ho Chi Minh City. The day after, the Hanoi People's Court sentenced a lawyer to five years of imprisonment plus four years of house arrest, while another human rights lawyer received four years of imprisonment plus three years of house arrest – a whole series of arrests and judges. Many have responded sharply to this wave of imprisonment. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a clear statement that this is responding to Norway. It is important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said, that a person reconsiders the use of the instrument. The Czech Republic's first president after the Communist period, Vaclav Havel, has gone out with other dissidents from former Communist countries demanding that Father Ly be released. Norwegian authorities must also work for that. Vietnam's authorities note the protests that are now coming about as a result of a deterioration in the human rights situation in the country. The loss of trust for the Vietnamese authorities is great. Now the outside world has to push. Perhaps this could lead to Vietnam's government releasing some of the human rights champions to dampen the strong international reactions. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about the situation in Vietnam – not least as regards the conditions of religious freedom. That is why I have recently asked the Foreign Minister a question about this side of the human rights situation in the country. As this debate shows, human rights violations in Vietnam are a broad problem. There is reason to ask whether the official human rights dialogue Norway has with Vietnam is working properly. The last round of dialogue was in January of this year, just before the deterioration had become visible, just before the spring prison wave. Has this dialogue become too vague and toothless? Does the repressive regime set for the narrow frames in the dialogue? And how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that one can improve this dialogue until the next meeting in Hanoi in 2008? Finally. I agree with the representative Nybakk, who says that trafficking in human beings and a number of violations of human rights are taking place in Vietnam. It is important that a central theme is also addressed in Norway’s dialogue with Vietnam.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e538	As many people before me have said, Vietnam is experiencing strong economic growth. Foreign investment shoots in the weather. The country is now the second largest rice exporter in the world, and Vietnamese farmers are ready to send ever new agricultural products onto the world market. Other sectors, such as textiles and IT, also apply. The economic policies of the authorities deliver good results. Outside, it seems that the country is undergoing major economic and political reforms. But the skin is deceiving. While adapting to an increasingly market-liberalist economic policy, the authorities are tightening their response to the population. Many Vietnamese people have a strong hope that economic freedom will lead to political freedom. They want fundamental democratic rights in line with us here in the West. But Vietnam, like China, has embarked on a course that involves a raging economic development led by an authoritarian communist regime. No political opposition is allowed, and there is little freedom of expression. The regime is striking down on people who are fighting for fundamental rights such as freedom of religion and assembly, as many have mentioned before. Today, the country has hundreds of political and religious prisoners, and torture and abuse are still reported. Furthermore, there is strong pressure on the press, and there is an increasing problem that Western press journalists do not let into the country. The group of dissidents who dare to oppose is subjected to regular harassment by the police. Central instruments include continuous surveillance, house search, computer confiscation and daily interrogation. The left – and I – are very concerned about this development in Vietnam, and I want to praise the Right to focus on the human rights of the country. As the representative of Solberg said, when we visited Vietnam last September, we raised human rights issues in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and we got the impression of some openness and some positive developments. I also want to mention – because I am concerned – this with freedom of religion, and not least this with women and trafficking, which is a very important topic, and which the Foreign Minister, fortunately, also mentioned that there is a focus. I want to take this opportunity to encourage the Government to put an increased pressure on Vietnamese authorities. This can be done through the bilateral human rights dialogue launched in 2001 — and in all other relevant arenas, as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We must say clearly that fundamental rights are being broken. We have to do what we can to influence the rulers of Hanoi in the right direction. Finally, I would like to point out that the Communist regime in Vietnam is being drawn ever further into the international heat. Membership of the WTO is here a central key. On the Norwegian side, we should bear in mind that, for Vietnam, this clearly presupposes that they respect fundamental civil and political rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e564	In the case we had on the map earlier today, I have had the opportunity to comment on how things stand in the world society in terms of fulfilling the obligations under human rights and democratic development. I just want to repeat quite briefly that I think it seems to be an absolute need to further concreteise not least the binding elements of what must be the core elements of democratic development and human rights, and unfortunately Vietnam is a good example of why it is necessary. There are many who have mentioned concrete examples of abuses against dissidents and human rights activists in Vietnam in today's inter-pelling debate. We also receive regular lists of concrete violations from human rights fighters inside and outside Vietnam. So the examples are many. I just want to say – as several others have been involved in – that the efforts of many of these people are incredibly impressive, impose great respect and deserve the greatest possible support. I will nevertheless grasp a slightly different source. A Norwegian journalist student, Ralf Lofstad, was in Vietnam in March this year because, as part of his graduation at the University of Oslo, he was going to write an exam report with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He wanted to write about human rights and democracy in Vietnam, and in that case he was going to meet dissidents. He ended up being deprived of that opportunity, imprisoned for 19 hours and had some experiences that he has reported quite comprehensively about in writing. The fact that a Northman is imprisoned for 19 hours is not comparable to what many of those who are dissidents in Vietnam are exposed to. Nevertheless, Lofstad is an interesting source, for he had intended to study exactly what several people have been into here, the paradoxical situation that Vietnam, on the one hand, has opened itself to Western capital and tourism and, at the same time, practises bone-hard censorship, banishment, narrowed religious freedom and persecution and imprisonment of human rights and democracy champions. Lofstad writes in his summary that what happened to him clearly shows how rescued the authorities of Vietnam are for any kind of hers, and that they put in great resources to deal with the ‘problem’, a business that also includes foreign espionage, obviously. He writes: ‘But the enemy image is out of proportion. The number of dissidents spoken inside Vietnam is only a few thousand, who also profess to be non-violent, and the response of the authorities to the pure paranoia.’ One of the things that comes out in the report of Lofstad is a relationship that was also interpellant at the beginning, namely that during the interrogations he was subjected to in Vietnam, he was confronted with the obvious understanding of who he had talked to, where he had been, and which assemblies he had attended in Norway before he left. This is a relationship that strongly occupies our new Norwegian-Vietnamese compatriots. One thing is that the Vietnam regime exports its lack of respect for human rights to other countries, in this case also ours, another thing is that people living in our country should not feel safe that they are not exposed to that kind of surveillance. It's a relationship that I think many people are surprised about, and I hope and believe that many, with both the interpellant and me, think this is such a serious matter that it deserves to be looked at more closely. I also heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs say in his first reply that he took note of it. I hope, at least, that we will be able to assure our new compatriots that they will come to our country in a good way and that they will be able to feel confident that freedom of expression and assembly are real.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e582	I think this interpellation debate has clearly shown that all political parties in Norway support the need to have an active attitude towards the human rights abuses taking place in Vietnam and that it is important to have a dialogue. But it is also important to give clear information about what we think about the developments that have worsened in the last few months. It's dangerous to start relativising human rights. I sometimes think that we tend to excuse human rights violations a little bit of social and economic development. But I think it's important to see that two human rights, namely freedom of expression and the right to try their case for justice, are the basic security mechanisms, no matter what system and well-being you've come to, in order to get a society where people are dry and have the opportunity to express their opinion. These are the two basic things that I think you always have to focus on: the justice system should protect the right to say things, and that there should be an opportunity to express its opinion and influence. And that's the two things that are experiencing particularly difficult in Vietnam right now. Because, although a long time has passed and a lot of money has been spent on legal reforms to ensure the rights of individuals, there has not been far enough progress, and there is still a system of administrative decisions that allows people to be sent both to rehabilitation camps and to mental hospitals. Last year, a lawyer who was a spokesperson for farmers who, in the name of economic development, loses their land and does not have the opportunity to operate any longer, was administratively sent to mental hospitals because he defended the rights of farmers. Although there are few dissidents in number, there is explosive power, both in China and in Vietnam, that makes the Communist parties afraid. One is that farmers are moving because economic development is taking away many poor people from the small livelihood they had. And the second is that the problems of corruption – because the lack of transparency in a society also creates a basis for corruption – lead to mass dissatisfaction, which threatens the communist communities. It's part of the economic development that has the kind of sides. Then I think it's important that we, even though fewer hungers, continue to insist that freedom of expression, human rights and the right to have a fair trial, which all those who are now most concerned with justice through American soap series, know it's called, should apply fundamentally around all countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e591	I'll be very short. I think the posts have been good and the discussion has been basically, concretely and practically linked to both names and groups and categories of people who experience a demanding human rights situation. A few comments: The representative Tørersdal was concerned about what we get back for the MR dialogue – does it work? I think that is a fundamentally good and important question. It's hard to give a very precise answer, because after such a dialogue, we can't go in and measure by a barometer or by a statistic what happened. To me, there are two guiding principles. One is, what is the feeling that we're left with over some time of these meetings? What did that lead to? How is it perceived by the authorities, and how does it help to focus internationally and provide us with information that we can use in the processes we are involved in internationally? I referred to the comments of the China dialogue, which I think is an illustration that long-term work produces results. The second approach to that question is, what is the alternative? The alternative, of course, is that we tell Vietnam that we're breaking the dialogue, because we think it's not being followed up the right way, and it's not producing results. I think that in the current situation is a little lucky tool, which I don't think is going to have much effect. We have to stick to dialogue, but we can use it by working on the agenda – with whom we take part in the meetings, what we put on the agenda, and how critical we are around each meeting, so that this does not become a kind of grey tradition that is predictable. That I think must be the way to go. Finally, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, the representative of Solberg, for the debate and agree with what she says about not relativising human rights. I agree. But I think – although it was not a review theme – that her comment on the fact that the left side was almost locked in the image of the Vietnam war was not really very striking for this debate. Here, I believe that the entire Storting – broad – has agreed on fundamental issues relating to human rights in Vietnam and Asia. I also think we've drawn some lines that we must at least include about Vietnam's quite dramatic development since the beginning of the 1980s. There is no excuse or legitimacy for being relativistic towards human rights, but we also need to include it in a broader picture. I think the Stortinge in this debate has been basically, written into the tradition that different governments have followed the same course. I think we'll be able to have a common Norwegian front in these important principal questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e606	That is when the debate is on case No. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e624	This interpellation could also have been addressed to the Minister of Knowledge, who has been responsible for the declaration in the Council of Ministers. But since it is the Minister of Culture who has the responsibility for language policy in Norway, and he is also working on his own report on Norwegian languages that will come to Stortinget, I thought it was right to correct the interpellation with the Minister of Culture. It is the language that constitutes us as human beings. It is the language that is the bearer of culture and tradition. Without language, we would be both cultural and historyless. If we lose our understanding of language, we lose much of our culture and identity. ‘If we are to be able to maintain and further develop a living democracy in Norway, it is crucial that we have a common national language that is used in a good, clear and appropriate way. A well-functioning national language is also important for security, efficiency and resource use in all areas of society.’ This is a quote from the introductory part of the study ‘Norwegian in a hundred!’, which the Language Council is behind, and which will form the starting point for the big message we are going to receive. The investigation has therefore been carried out by a separate group set up by the Language Council. In addition, the investigation states: ‘The existence of Norwegian as a language is not trusted today. When we look at how the entire Norwegian community today is based on Norwegian languages, we see it as very unlikely that Norwegian will disappear in the overcrowded future. However, important areas of society may be lost to English. In these areas, therefore, action needs to be taken.’ This was also a quote from the introduction. An area in which Norwegian language can be lost is like professional language, as academic language. The Declaration adopted by the Nordic Council operates with three definitions for languages in the Nordic region. First of all, it's the social languages. There are six languages that are defined as community-supporting, they are complete, and they are used officially, such as: in education and legislation. Secondly, there are the state-supporting languages, which are defined to be Norwegian, Finnish, Danish, Swedish and Icelandic. Thirdly, we have minority languages. There are over 200 minority languages in the Nordic region. The Nordic Language Declaration takes as its starting point the right of all northern residents to learn a community language. I guess this is the easiest thing to do with the whole declaration. Secondly, they have the right to acquire the understanding and knowledge of a Scandinavian language, Danish, Norwegian or Swedish, in order to participate in the Nordic community. Thirdly, the Declaration states that one should have the right to learn a language with international scope, and fourthly that minority speakers should develop their native language, that we should facilitate it. In this context, our challenges, as I see it, are linked, first of all, to facilitating the Norwegian people to learn about and use either Danish or Swedish in addition to their native Norwegian language. Secondly, how should a strength of Norwegian and Nordic languages be a language of science? And third, what is our responsibility, and how are we going to take our responsibility seriously in relation to the minority languages in our community? With minority languages, I think not only in Sami or female, but also in the new languages that are the result of immigration into our language area. Knowledge of neighbouring languages has become poorer, shows studies. The Nordic Cultural Fund had a study that was presented two years ago, I think it was. It shows that knowledge of neighbouring languages among young people has deteriorated compared to similar studies for some years ago. Norwegian youth does better than young people from Denmark and Sweden; Norwegian youth have more knowledge of Danish and Swedish than Danish and Swedish youth have about their neighbouring languages. That's good, and we'll be happy for that. Nevertheless, we are going to take this development seriously, and there are several measures that should be taken at the same time, as I see it. Firstly, it is important that we strengthen language training in neighbouring languages at school. We need to stimulate the use of texts in neighbouring languages in Norwegian schools, both primary and secondary schools and also in higher education. Secondly, it is important to get involved in teacher training. I think it's incredibly important that Norwegian teachers get more knowledge of and spend more time in the studies reading texts, acquiring knowledge and skills about neighbouring languages. Thirdly, it is important that access to literature in the neighbouring languages of Norway in Norwegian bookstores and libraries is improved. Fourth, the exchange of classes and students between Nordic countries is important in order to strengthen and increase knowledge of neighbouring languages. Fifthly, we must take action in relation to the Nordic languages as scientific languages. Moreover, we must also have a policy and be clear about what we want in relation to minority languages. The declaration is clear that we have a responsibility for the 200 minority languages that exist in the Nordic countries. The declaration states that there will be competence, there will be environments of expertise that can take care of and participate in and develop these minority languages. This is a common Nordic responsibility. I clearly realise that in Norway we cannot have skills and knowledge and training provision around our higher education institutions in all these 200 minority languages, but in a Nordic context it is important that we find cooperation between the Nordic countries so that one can jointly take responsibility, that one maintains competence, knowledge and education in these minority languages. In addition, it is also important, in my opinion, that we develop further the mother-in-law offer around Norwegian educational institutions, so that those who belong to a minority language group can get a good and a proper mother-in-law offer in Norwegian school. Finally, the scientific language – the Nordic languages, the Norwegian language as a scientific language, as used in academia. This is probably the area where the Norwegian language and the Nordic languages are most threatened. We see that we lose grip on professional terminology, because Norwegian and Nordic languages are not valid enough around in many disciplines. That's why it's absolutely crucial that we be able to take care of the Nordic languages and develop the Nordic languages as scientific languages. Then I think that if we're going to make it, maybe the most important thing we can do is to increase cooperation between the different educational and research institutions in the Nordic region. There are major challenges, but it is important that action is taken in Norway, so that the language declaration can be implemented in a good way, and that we can strengthen the Nordic languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e668	Let me first thank the interpellant for bringing up an important theme, a perhaps underestimated theme. We take it for granted that our Norwegian language is an eternal quality, that there is no need for maintenance, that it is a matter of course. It's not at all. We lose languages in the world every single day, and different languages in the world lose their function in different areas. That is why this debate has taken the initiative, a very important debate, also for us. The Government will work on the Nordic Language Declaration, both through cooperation in the Nordic Council of Ministers and at national level. National efforts to follow up the declaration will be included as part of the language policy that the Government will outline in the forthcoming language message, where actions will be discussed both within and outside the framework of the declaration. Their priorities will be assessed in the Communication and on the one hand in the ongoing follow-up work in the coming years. The most important thing about the Nordic Language Declaration is perhaps the contribution it can make to putting language and language policies higher on the political agenda, not only in Nordic cooperation, but also in our national policies, on which the inter-pellant's interpellant is a good example. However, compared to the often heated debate on the issue of spelling in the past, there are, to a large extent, other language policy challenges we are now facing. It is a completely different language policy debate from what Norway has had in previous decades. Among other things, the multilingual and minority language challenges in our own home are completely different in dimensions than in the past. But above all, it is a broader effort to strengthen the status and use of national languages in all areas of society. This concerns both the Norwegian language in general and the new Norwegian target form in particular. A more offensive language policy must not least be geared towards strengthening the position of new Norway. In this way, I fully agree with what the Evening Post wrote in its editorial on 25 May. It is a good promise that this particular newspaper will help to promote a responsible line of cultural policy in our national language debate. I guess it's also a good illustration that the language debate has changed. Because even though we have a lot in common with our Nordic neighbours, Norway is in a special position by including two living writing cultures and two separate writing standards in the Norwegian language itself. Here we have a double wealth, but at the same time a double responsibility. The strange language situation also gives us a advantage within the Nordic community. We are more used to linguistic variation, and we are better at Nordic neighbourly understanding than the Swedish and Danish are. In addition to purely international issues, the Nordic Language Declaration also deals with the new national and multilingual issues. Around these issues, there is no doubt that there is a clear linguistic awareness and interest in our closest Nordic neighbouring countries. The Language Declaration therefore calls for a new Nordic language policy to ensure the full and coherence of the Nordic Council of Ministers' own actions in the field of languages, including: through joint Nordic research and development projects. This will be relevant for several of the concrete actions mentioned in the Interpellation, namely inter-ordinary dictionaries, machine translation programmes and multilingual search in Nordic databases. However, in many areas of the declaration, national follow-up responsibilities also rest with individual Nordic governments and self-government authorities. The declaration is a political commitment to which we should deal. The language, as the interpellant also said, is one of our most important cultural expressions, and very many social issues have a language policy side, and the language identifies us as communities and people. Therefore, it is urgent to develop a comprehensive language policy and give it a cultural policy anchor. The forthcoming communication shall clarify the overall responsibilities of the Ministry of Culture and the Church in terms of language policy. However, a good follow-up to language policy requires all specialised ministries to take into account language policy perspectives in the design and implementation of relevant policies in their respective social sectors. In this context, the Ministry of Culture and the Church and the underlying professional body of the Language Council must have a driving role and coordination responsibility. In addition to the cultural and media fields, many of the key challenges of language policy are linked to the education and research sector. In the Nordic Council of Ministers, therefore, languages have been included as part of the field of research and education policy cooperation. It was then also the Minister of Knowledge who, on behalf of Norway, took part in the promotion of the Council of Ministers’ proposal on the Nordic Language Declaration. Last year, a sample was set up under the Council of Ministers to assess the future organisation of language work. Work is in the process of being completed and a central theme will probably be the relationship between the areas of cooperation on culture and education/language research. Who will be responsible for Nordic cooperation will probably be clarified there. Despite the Nordic conclusions, close contact is needed between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Churches in Norway within important areas of language policy. We need to have one single language policy that includes several departments. In Nordic language cooperation, there is a tradition of such contacts, such as: has concluded that one of Norway’s two members of the Nordic Language Council comes from the cultural sector, the other from the education and research sector. In addition, the Nordic Ministers for Education and Research have already taken the initiative to clarify and prioritise existing and planned language policy actions in the Nordic Council of Ministers, with language understanding as a priority. Under the Nordplus Language Support Programme, the Nordic Council of Ministers provides annual financial support for the implementation of international language courses. In this way, students and students are given the opportunity to stay for a short time in another Nordic country, thus providing practical and ground-based help to understand neighbouring languages in contact with young people from other parts of the Nordic region. What has now been added is a specific initiative to strengthen the practical aspect of language teaching in the Nordic primary school. This is done through a targeted effort towards a defined group of teachers. The aim is to establish a network of resource teachers, which can both contribute to improving the quality of neighboring language teaching and at the same time increase the impact of existing measures by establishing links between the existing training offer and the practical teaching situation in schools. Selected teachers shall be Nordic language pilots who can provide guidance to colleagues and students and be drivers for the development of better and more effective neighbouring language teaching. A special survey conducted by the Nordic Council of Ministers in the autumn of 2005 showed that what is said about the teaching of neighbouring languages in the Nordic countries’ curricula is generally very small and quite non-obligatory. In Norway, however, neighbouring language understanding, including teaching in Nordic languages, has been raised as a school competence objective. The means under the cultural cooperation area of the Nordic Council of Ministers used for translation support can also help to strengthen mutual understanding of languages in the Nordic region. The fact that Nordic readers, thanks to selected translations, become familiar with a writership from another Nordic country may arouse an interest that will in the next round read more books of the same author even if they are not translated, i.e. in the original language. The means of translation also help us in the Nordic region to maintain a corps of competent translators between the social languages in the Nordic region. This represents a professional in-depth competence which forms an essential part of the cultural infrastructure of the Nordic Community. As part of the follow-up to the Norwegian library study, which has just been consulted, there may also be grounds to consider whether Norwegian libraries can place greater emphasis on the active dissemination of Nordic neighbouring country literature than at present. It can also be considered that events with literature reading and author visits under the direction of the libraries can be given a more Nordic neighbouring language perspective. Access to television channels from neighbouring Nordic countries has been a theme that has shaped Nordic cooperation for decades. It is quite obvious that watching television programmes from neighbouring Nordic countries can help to strengthen the understanding of neighbouring languages among the majority of people. On the Norwegian side, there is reason to highlight the increased investment in film production. This will also strengthen the dissemination of Norwegian films in our Nordic neighbouring countries and thus contribute to the greater exposure of a large film-interested audience in the other Nordic neighbouring countries to different variants of Norwegian speaking languages, just as we see Danish and Swedish films to a large extent in particular. TV, film and literature, but also other forms of cultural exchange between Nordic countries, contribute greatly to doing exactly what the Language Declaration highlights, namely that the social languages in the Nordic countries become as visible in public space as possible. A number of other relevant issues, such as interlingualism at universities, language technologies and linguistic diversity, will be addressed by the Government, inter alia. in the language notification. The Nordic Language Declaration should be a reminder to all of us in the Nordic region of the importance of taking care of the inalienable value of the Nordic community. It is pointed out that the Nordic community is unique, and that it is unique that the Scandinavians have an opportunity to use their own native language in communication with all those who speak one of the other two Scandinavian languages. We want to take care of the understanding and communication skills we have in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e723	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I think that was a good answer in many areas, but I want to challenge the Council of State in some areas that I think were less clear and slightly unclear. I am very pleased that the Council of State prioritises this and underlines so strongly that the language declaration is politically committed to us. He was quite clear that this is a political commitment that the various countries have to implement and to facilitate what the language declaration provides for us. I also think it is important, as the Council of State stressed, that close contact between the different departments responsible for language policy in this country – it is the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture in the first place, but also other departments – that there should be close links between the departments on these issues. For me, it is also important, as the Council of State also stressed, that the declaration is a way of raising language policy, a way of making us aware of the position of language and also of the language being the most important cultural carrier we have, and is – as I said in my introduction – what constitutes us as human beings, what creates our identity as human beings. Governments spent relatively much time going through some of the things happening at Nordic level – Nordic cooperation and the North Plus programmes. I fully agree with the Council of State that this is extremely important, including the new pilots who are now going to be tested around schools in the Nordic region. What I might have expected a little bit more was that the Council in its response could be a little more specific about how to implement the language declaration in Norway. What are we going to do in Norway? Are we going to do something about teacher training? Is there a need to address teacher training in order to strengthen the position of neighbouring national languages in teacher training? Can we do more about school? Is there a need to go through the curricula? Is there a need to initiate activities aimed at strengthening texts, literature texts, in the neighbouring language? It is, of course, the teachers of each school who select texts with the students, but it is important that there is some incentive to use neighbouring language texts. Can resources be allocated in relation to student exchanges, etc., not only through the Nordplus programmes, but also as a separate Norwegian action? Such things I think are terribly important, and I would like the Council of State to be a little more specific about it, and ask him to consider whether there is a need for some of these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e743	In the interpellation, the interpellant refers primarily to the Nordic Council's declaration. It is the follow-up to what we now need to translate into concrete action through understanding across national borders and cooperation areas for it, cooperation projects that I described in the response to the interpellant, and, of course, also a number of national measures. As I said in my reply, the government comes with a comprehensive language message. Both the Ministry of Language, that is, the Ministry of Culture, and of course the department that may have most of the concrete follow-up tools, that is, the Ministry of Knowledge, come back to what the interpellant is asking for. So how much I'm going to lighten up the veil in relation to what's coming, I'm a little uncertain about. We'll have to take the formal rounds before we can flag it. However, the language declaration to the Nordic Council is a political commitment and an ambition that we are going to achieve through the measures we are describing is quite clear. Now it's not like the Nordics are the only area in the world where you have related languages, and where you can communicate across borders with slightly different variants of languages where you understand each other, despite their unique and distinctness. But there is hardly any area in the world where the political desire to maintain that understanding and that knowledge across borders is so strong. We're in a media revolution. I think some of these old visions about Norsat and Nordic channels across borders might be easier to realize now, when we have other technological possibilities. We can more easily follow up on what is happening in other countries. We also see how the different Nordic countries build up a very large industry in the form of television drama productions. There are probably not a few who have sat at home and seen the chronicler and thus got a pretty good insight into Danish. Similarly, we hope that we will have similar production in Norway that other Nordic countries can benefit from. The kind of practical, concrete tools are the best tools, I think, to increase the understanding of languages between our Nordic countries, as well as all that is under knowledge, education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e754	Together with common culture and history, the community of languages is a fundamental prerequisite for Nordic cooperation, which is becoming more important and important in a globalised world where market-side cultural expressions are colonising smaller countries and nations. And precisely in this context, the geographical regions are becoming significant political counter-powers. The Nordic community therefore becomes a key to further developing Nordic cooperation on essential social and cultural values. It is therefore of great importance that the Nordic Council adopted a declaration on Nordic language policy at its last session in Copenhagen. Although the declaration is not legally binding, the Education Ministers have stated through the document a clear political commitment to work for the areas and objectives covered by the declaration. It is true that from Norway we are actively involved in the process of developing a new language convention and in the review and organisation of the Nordic Language Council. This work will also provide a good starting point for a renewed Nordic language debate. During the session and through many years of work at the Nordic Council, a broad consensus has been expressed on the key objectives of Nordic language policy. The Council of Ministers was therefore unanimously invited to draw up an action plan to specify how to work with the four main areas outlined in the declaration: language understanding, parallel linguisticity, multilingualism and the Nordic region as a language precursor. It is a wish that Norway becomes a driving force in this context. I am pleased that the Minister already seems to follow the Nordic Council's recommendations on culture and education, which are precisely that the area of language understanding is given the highest priority in the coming years. In this context, it points to the importance of targeting the North Plus language programme in the development of new Nordplus programmes and that teacher training and teaching students should be important target groups. It was also pointed out by the Culture Committee that translation aid should be included in a comprehensive action plan to strengthen language understanding. Over several years, the Nordic Council has also reached a cross-political agreement to provide sign language with the same position as the legal minority languages in the Nordic region. The legal minority languages in the Nordic countries are Sami, Yiddish, female and romance. This was also reflected in a unanimous proposal by the Culture Committee at the Nordic Council. However, during the Council of Ministers' examination of the language declaration, this point was weakened, and the terms of the ministers were that sign language should also be given a strong position. It is clear that this wording also obliges further work, but when the Council of Ministers was not prepared to go further than that, it was related to the fact that sign language does not have the status of legal minority language in all Nordic countries. Among other things, we in Norway have not yet given this status to sign languages. It is therefore even more important for Norway to maintain and strengthen the position of the sign language in the Nordic context in the further work on the language declaration, and in particular when the Nordic Language Convention is to be re-established.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e769	There's a lot of interpellations going on in this room, and the matter we're dealing with now may not be of the issues that we've had the most focus on. The question is whether we should then focus so strongly on this area. In my notes for this interpellation, there are quite a number of question marks. I ask the question whether this is such a central and important topic as the interpellant claims. I notice that the interpellant is in charge of strengthening training in neighbouring languages. He suggests machine translation, and that neighboring search in databases should be facilitated. I want to ask the question, what is the purpose? Is it that we don't understand each other in Danish, Swedish and Norwegian? Most of us have grown up with Swedish television and after each Danish film, and we have a great tourism and trade exchange between countries. It would therefore be appropriate to ask questions about whether this is actually a problem that should be solved by politicians. In such a debate one should be careful to use English, but in England one has a quite striking saying: ‘If it is not broken, don’t fix it.’ Machine translation, multilingual databases or searches, etc. Do we need this? Is it interesting for more than a handful of academics and some teachers? At least I think it has limited interest. On the other hand, when it comes to language policy in general, it is clear that it is an important topic, which is also addressed by the Progress Party. The adoption of the Norwegian language will be important in the future. In this area, there is no disagreement whatsoever. We are under pressure from the world's languages, and we need to strengthen Norwegian both in the media, in the professional environments, in school and in daily use – also in the ICT and software sectors. There are many ways to strengthen the Norwegian language, but I don't think what the interpellant outlines is the way to go. The Progress Party has nothing against us having access to Swedish and Danish literature in the libraries and schools, and that we have the great access we have to several television stations in and cultural entries from our neighboring country. The question is whether we should prioritise scarce resources for this area. Here, the Progress Party will agree with Minister of Education Djupedal, who has recently come to the conclusion that there must be a far higher priority and more focus on the core areas of Norwegian school. We think that's very good, and that's in itself a good copy of what the Progress Party has said in the last 20 years. The Council of State announces the arrival of a language message, and the Progress Party looks forward to it. On this issue, we want to make our assessments more concrete, but we will clearly focus on the pressures from the world languages, on the challenges that large immigration to Norway has given us in relation to language, and also on the future of the new Norway. We have argued in previous language debates in this Chamber, and we are firmly convinced that it is not possible to ensure that the new Norway survives only by coercion, quotas and state aid. It is necessary to focus on the daily voluntary use both in the public sector and in the media if the neo-norm has to be able to survive, as we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e784	I would like to add a comment to the representative from the Progress Party when it applies to new Norwegian as a language. Besides having the right to use new Norse, it's also important that we get equal opportunity to use it. Then it's e.g. important with the organisation of good literature — there are many challenges — so that a person has a good opportunity to use new drugs. Several hundred years back in time, the North Americans talked and understood each other. They understood each other with their Nordic part of the Indo-European language. Today, we often have to resort to English when understanding fails. The Nordic language understanding is falling. Many other regions in Europe envy the Nordic region, which understands neighbouring countries' languages. Here, exceptions must be made for Finnish, Icelandic, Sami and Greenlandic, which do not belong to the Nordic part of Indo-European, and where, naturally, little is found in common. But developments seem to be going the way that we in Scandinavia also need to talk more and more about each other via English. The Nordic language community is perplexing. It seems that the North has to jump off the Northern Germanic branch of the Indo-European and into the English. Several studies have been carried out to find out how the language is understood in different countries. A 2001 survey shows that we are here in the country and those in the Faroe Islands who understand neighbouring languages the best. The results of a text and speech understanding where a maximum score could score 10 points gave 7.01 to the Faroe Islands, 6.14 to Norway, 4.38 to Sweden, and 3.87 to Denmark. A similar survey of recruits in 1976 gave similar results. The Norwegian language understanding is therefore the second best. I think it's due to active dialect usage, and we have two smooth scripting languages – new Norwegian and Bokmål. We are water with linguistic variation – both orally and in writing. In this country, people have seen Swedish television for as long as we've had television. This has undoubtedly led to greater knowledge of Swedish languages – especially through popular serials such as the Archipelago Doctor and children's program such as Pippi Langstrømpe and Emil in Lønneberget. In recent years, several Danish television series for Norwegian audiences have also been shown – both on NRK and TV 2. They've become very popular with many Nordics, and we'll assume that this also has a positive effect on the understanding of Danish by the North. In recent years, Swedish education in Finland and Danish education in Iceland have gone back, and there are strong forces in this country to reduce training in new Norwegian and the number of literary texts in Swedish and Danish. All of this leads to a sluggish Nordic language skills and a greater difficulty in speaking together in Nordic languages. It's probably mostly English that comes in where teaching in Nordic languages goes out, and now it seems that we don't have to go further than neighboring countries to use English. But can it not be called progress if we have to speak English with Danish and Swedish, as one does today with Finns and Icelanders? Nordic language cooperation has existed as far back as the 1800s. In 1869, the Nordic language meeting was held in Stockholm to discuss the coordination of spelling. Between the Norwegian participants was Henrik Ibsen and the linguist Knud Knudsen. The Nordic Council has been concerned about this issue as long as it has existed. The Nordic languages are the best to describe Nordic circumstances, and the Nordic community has a symbolic value. At the same time, there has been a decrease in Scandinavian language teaching in several Nordic countries, and this has not strengthened Nordic understanding. It's an unfortunate development. On the other hand, youth exchanges between Nordic countries are popular and help to strengthen Nordic understanding. We need to be active to save the community and our cultural base. The Nordic Council's literary prize is an important and heavy prize in this way, a safe number. 2 in the North after the Nobel Prize. Here, the Nordic Council has made a great effort for the cultural community and the language of the Nordic region. The Nordics speak with a voice in different languages. We have to fight for it to continue, for example. through language training in teacher training and for pupils in school, increasing youth exchanges and by building up the barriers that still exist for the free movement of labour between the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e810	Language is identity, and language is an important part of our culture. We know that globalisation means that some languages are under pressure. Of course, it is nice that countries have more contact between themselves and that the world is getting smaller in many ways. At the same time, it requires that we be more aware of keeping track of and facilitating cultural diversity and linguistic diversity. This makes it necessary to have a targeted policy to ensure languages. The Nordic Council adopted a declaration on Nordic language policy at its meeting in the autumn of 2006. The declaration contains a general and principled introduction with definitions, where the starting point for the Nordic language policy is underlined. The measures are clarified under the main headings, areas for which it is to be worked, and to which each country is to focus, are reported, as the interpellant did well. The Declaration on Nordic Language Policy is very positive. In the view of the Centre Party, linguistic cooperation must be an important part of Nordic cooperation. The centre party will work actively in bulk and government to ensure that the measures to ensure and strengthen the languages are prioritised and put to work. Societal development is moving towards an increasingly important language. On the one hand, there is increased trade, migration and closer international cooperation, including in the Nordic region. Norway has e.g. closer cooperation with Sweden now than we had in the Union era. On the one hand, there are fundamental changes in the economy. The service sector has become increasingly important and thus language as an input. In the industrial community, labour and capital were dominant. Now there is human capital that owes debt and causes the land to grow, knowledge and communication, with the language as a red thread and a frame. For this reason, a general awareness of language, linguistic quality and skill also in Nordic contexts is a sign in time and a commitment to deeper cooperation, understanding and strengthening identity, also as a basis for meeting and communicating with cultures and people outside the Nordic region. Research shows that the Nordics’ understanding of other Nordic languages, especially the other Scandinavians, is sometimes better than the Swedes and Danishes’ knowledge. There's two reasons for this. The one is the status of the dialects, folk speaking, here in the country. The second is the bilingual situation in Norway with two relatively similar Norwegian languages. This – a variation in both speech and writing – gives the Nordics a comparative advantage: we are more watered down by the fact that a language can vary, have different expressions. For this reason, increasing the focus on balancing new Norwegian-bokmål is, in fact, an action which means better representations also for a better Nordic language policy. This is also reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration as one of the Government's bet areas. The interpellant points to a number of concrete areas of activity in which it is important, in his view, to strengthen efforts, such as linking competences to minority languages, dealing with scientific languages, i.e. Norwegian languages in the academy, the exchange of youth between the Nordic countries, and teacher training, etc. This is the focus area that we in the Center Party can put ourselves in the back of the whole heart. One could comment very much on the post of the representative Knudsen from the Progress Party. I thought it was the integrity of the post that was interesting. For the motto was, as it is for the Progress Party in very many areas of society: ‘If it is not broken, don’t fix it’. It's a mindset where repair is what's always in the high seat, rather than the prevention, and it shows a fundamental difference between the two. The Progress Party and the Center Party, where we in the Center Party see it as a goal in itself to prevent repair from being necessary once. It was a little bit of a siding. The relationship that exists between the Nordic countries through the language gives us good support for close cooperation. So, language is a factor that can help strengthen cooperation and development in our countries. The Center Party hopes that the declaration will contribute to a stronger language policy effort in the whole of the Nordic region in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e831	After all, I register that language and language debates are not the most committed thing to Stortinget. I had imagined a full hall when we were going to discuss language, identity and who we are as human beings. I also record that the so-called cultural party Right does not find any reason to participate in debates on language and policy. In addition, I also think we could have been saved for the bay-like post from the Progress Party. I'm sorry, President, that I used the word "bajas," but I don't think there's any more comprehensive word for the post he made. It would have been an advantage if the representative of the Progress Party had seen through what was adopted at the Nordic Council, what the Nordic Council of Ministers has come up with, and the declaration adopted by the Nordic Council. That was a quote from the declaration to which the representative of Knudsen referred. It is always an advantage to read the basic documents in the case before taking part in a debate. I thank those who have been involved in the debate. It's an important thing. It's about our identity, it's about our understanding of us as human beings, and it's about Nordic and our future Nordic cooperation. As the Council of State said, and as several others have said, the basis for the close Nordic cooperation is that we have a language community. It is this community of languages that we are committed to further developing and strengthening, precisely to strengthen cooperation in the Nordic region. That's what the Nordic Language Declaration points out, what to do at Nordic level and what to do at national level. We return to a debate on language policy when we receive the message from the Ministry of Culture. Then we will have a broader debate on Norwegian languages, but also on the Nordic languages and cooperation on them in the Nordic countries. I think we have major challenges, because, as many have said, the Norwegian language and the different Nordic languages are under pressure. And as I said in my post, if we go in and see within academia, we see that the Nordic languages are losing ground. Even if I don't want to shout warnings – there may not be any reason – there's reason to fear that in 20, 30, 40 years the Norwegian language has lost its hegemony within the academy. It gives cause for concern, because it's like I said about our understanding of ourselves as human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e845	The President will point out – as the speaker himself pointed out – that ‘bajas’ is not a good word in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e848	If there's a good word in this context, there might be a shared opinion about, but if there's a good word in this room, it's probably another case. I must say that I also find it strange that the Right Party is not taking part in the debate. But then it is better with the Progress Party that actually participates. I still think it is a paradox that the Progress Party, which in so many respects is committed to taking care of the Norwegian and our peculiarity and is afraid that we will be diluted by international influence, does not see that strong Nordic cooperation on language policy will actually help to make everyone stronger. But you might also say that this relationship, by being stronger together, has not been the great force of the Progress Party either. On the other hand, I think it is possible to have a fairly broad political majority otherwise in order for us to have a very ambitious objective that the Norwegian language should be a full language in all areas of society. In my view, there is reason to call out the warning that the interpellant was a little uncertain about. There are areas within the academy where you don't necessarily have full terms in 5, 10 or 15 years and a vocabulary in Norwegian. It is about investing in textbooks, teaching in Norwegian, research reports, doctoral thesis and international articles translated into Norwegian, and through this we maintain a good Norwegian professional language in all areas of society. If it starts at maybe the most special small and narrow subjects, it can expand not only within academia but also into other areas of society. I think of this as a little prelude to the debate we get when we get a language message. I hope that we will then get a great and broad commitment, for this is a very important matter that is about exactly what the interpellant says, about our identity and our society. I guess there's a few things that express who we are, as strongly as the language we use. So this is a question that goes far beyond the narrower cultural policy perspective. This is about the broad culture, about who we are, and it's about all areas of society. By doing so, I am delighted with the debate we get over the autumn and winter on language policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e859	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e877	A quick Internet round shows that «Indoor climate in School-Norway» is a hot topic around the whole country. Headings such as ‘School is on fire’, ‘Eating pills to cope with school day due to poor indoor climate’ and ‘School, a health risk’ have been listed in different media only in the last two or three months. They represent a selection of many articles that illustrate that school-Norway conditions are not quite as they should be. In many municipalities, there is often a lack of knowledge of the effects of the indoor climate and of the requirements that can be imposed. It is not easy to find systematic surveys of indoor climate in Norwegian schools. The Norwegian Institute of Air Research conducted a student-based research campaign in 2003. It had a lot of excitement — a total of 688 schools — and is the closest I have come to a survey of the situation in the school. The study revealed that 35 pst. of the classrooms examined had problematic air quality, while 7 pst. had unacceptable air quality. There is, not surprisingly, agreement between how students and teachers experience air quality and CO2 concentration in the classroom. The researchers Pawel Wargokki and David P. Wyon at the Technical University of Denmark in Lyngby have demonstrated that the air in the classroom has a significant impact on students’ presentations at the school. Students work both faster and better with lower indoor temperature and good ventilation in the school room. The school shall disseminate knowledge and develop competences. The indoor climate is an important part of how well the learning environment appears. Overseeing the Danish Labour Inspectorate and indoor climate expert Jan Vilhelm Bakke, at the same time, agrees with the findings of the Danish researchers and states – in VG 4 February this year – that «the schools are still indoor climate hosts in Norway». Furthermore, both he and Dr Gunilla Wieslander, from the Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, the Academic Hospital, Uppsala, points out that the indoor climate in the school “must be improved”. It is a paradox that while children have little opportunity to influence their own working environment, – as these researchers say – the effect of indoor climate is much greater for them than for adults. Doubled outside fresh air added 8 pst to the students' working rhythm. Bad indoor climates in schools and kindergartens are becoming a serious social problem. Asthma is now something over 10 pst. by Norwegian children, according to the Norwegian Asthma and Allergi Associations. Studies from Oslo show, according to the same source, that up to 20 pst. by the children may be defined as children with asthma bearings. When the indoor climate is poor, children are more distressed – and it also helps to make more children sick or sicker. School is a central part of the everyday life of all children. It shall be a place for the development of knowledge and competence. Then it can't be a place where you'll find that your plague might be amplified. The indoor climate is not just CO2. We are also talking about dust, exhaust gases and moisture. Here the causal relationship is complex, but there are clear indications that people who live in homes with moisture and mold are at increased risk of asthma and allergies and develop other forms of hypersensitivity. After passive smoking has now been eliminated as an indoor climate factor, mould and moisture are the factors that give rise to the greatest indoor health problems. It's not that you haven't focused on this problem, but there might be something about the way we approach the problem, which makes good wishes and good will not produce the desired effects. The regulation on health protection in schools and kindergartens came into force in 1996 and was a breakthrough in improving the physical working environment for children and young people in schools and kindergartens. Training laws Chapter 9a, the School environment of the students — also known as the Working Environment Act — came into force in 2003 and also helps to ensure the psychosocial environment. The Education Directorate has followed up, for example: by establishing a national school advisory service in 2003 and by launching a new online guide on the school network in March this year. Furthermore, annual conferences are organised, primarily for decision-makers in municipalities. If quality and knowledge in school are to be really focused, it must also be the environment that sets the framework for education. The success of creating good conditions for school learning is central to Norway’s position as a knowledge nation in the future. It's done a lot of good, but the question is whether it's enough, and whether it's effective in achieving the goal. As I started with, the headlines are hitting us. Many report that, as new building requirements and new methods are introduced — and building becomes ‘better and better’ — the challenge is really growing. It is a paradox, but I have been confirmed by several teams, including from the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations, that the situation is not really getting better. Lack of competence in, knowledge and knowledge of this area remains high. I believe a lot of the challenge is that we may have been committed to unilateral self-control and information about rights and claims in this area. The measures are well and good, but are fast too demanding, too bureaucratic and too scarce for each individual student, teacher, principal or supervisor. In particular, if one has not established perfectly clear, concrete and measurable standards to measure it against. During my review of various suggestions, I have noticed that in many cases there is a claim against the claim, and then the fight often becomes too heavy for the person who has taken the initiative. Let's be open to it: in such a world, the strongest and most action-oriented comes forward. It is obvious that there is a problem that there seems to be a total lack of studies on the state of schools and kindergartens. The one who doesn't look doesn't find it either. Those who do not have standards to measure against may also not require action. Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations have been operating advisory offices on indoor climate-related issues for many years. Earlier this week they reported through a look-up on their website that they looked at the situation of Norwegian schools and kindergartens with concern. I am informed that linked annually receive several thousand enquiries from employees, parents and others about poor conditions in the country's kindergartens and schools. The association also says that they do not see any reduction in the problems reported, rather on the contrary. Consent on objectives and desires can be a danger in this area, because we might forget to check that our wishes also need to be met with actually improved quality in the indoor environment. We have independent supervision and clear, defined standards in a number of key areas of society. With regard to the indoor climate, we have left this to self-control, information measures and the lack of standards monitoring. I think you should consider doing something about that. Clear standards must be defined and a follow-up system followed by an independent body must be established. I think the example of NILU's study in 2003 is quite interesting. An independent body, NILU, conducted a school survey by offering schools a free measurement package that students could use themselves. Then such a check becomes a good pedagogical exercise. It could be combined with knowledge of the environment and its impact on concentration and learning, and it could be implemented without the high costs of building up its own supervisory body. It is Barneastma this year, and Norway's Asthma and Allergy Associations deserve to focus on this issue. I hope and look forward to an interesting exchange of views on an important topic – with the Council of State and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e923	The representative, Gundersen, is addressing a very important theme. A good physical work environment is an absolute prerequisite for a safe school day and a good learning environment. The physical school environment inside and outside should contribute to the health of children and young people and contribute to a good learning situation. At the same time, a good physical school environment is an important prerequisite for well-being in school everyday life. A good indoor climate is perhaps the most important part of the physical environment at school, because children spend most of the school day indoors. At the same time, the indoor environment is crucial for the learning situation of students. Standards and requirements for the physical school environment in primary and secondary schools are laid down in the Training Act Chapter 9a. It is established that students are entitled to a school environment that takes into account their health, safety, well-being and learning situation. The school environment is also regulated by other laws, regulations and administrative provisions, including ‘Regulation on environmental health protection in schools and kindergartens’ administered by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The regulation has some detailed provisions, but is based mainly on discretionary standards to the satisfaction of the environment. Under the regulations, the schools shall have an approval of the municipalities. The Training Act states that the physical environment must meet the professional standards recommended by the professional authorities at all times. The use of standard standards is necessary for both local adaptations and updates as a result of new knowledge. Thus, the Training Act makes recommendations from the professional authorities as legally binding rules on the physical school environment. For the indoor environment, «Guide to the regulation on environmental health protection in schools and kindergartens» provides concrete standards that must be complied with. Among other things, a maximum level is set for the amount of permitted carbon dioxide in indoor air and a minimum level for the temperature in school rooms. That guidance, as well as the «Recommended professional standards for indoor climate», published by former Folkehelsa, now the National Institute for Public Health, also provides a number of other standards which are legally binding under the regulations of the Training Act. However, it is the impact of the school environment on the basic students. A school environment is not good if, based on the student’s situation, it does not promote health, well-being and learning. Students and their superiors are therefore entitled to have complaints in the school environment dealt with within a reasonable time by the school and to be heard through various councils and school committees. The control systems and supervisory mechanisms to ensure compliance place a responsibility at the school, at the school owner and at the state. The school and the school owner are responsible for ensuring that the requirements of Chapter 9a of the Training Act on Good Physical School Environment are met in daily work. An important part of this work is the duty of each school to carry out a continuous and systematic effort to contribute to a good school environment, which ensures the student's working environment. In addition, the obligation to ensure the establishment of such an internal control system is laid down in the Regulation on Environmental Health Protection administered by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This means that the school and the school owner cannot passively wait for some to complain about any illegal circumstances. On the contrary, the school must actively promote health, the environment and safety in line with the legislation. Work will be carried out throughout the school year and the school will have a systematic approach to work. This means that samples are not good enough. The school and the school owner must have a system to prevent and detect violations of the law at an early stage. To cope with this, the school and the school owner need to set specific goals for the school environment that are tailored to the local challenges of the school. This implies an obligation for each school and school owner to monitor local conditions and plan to take action to achieve the objectives. One measure to improve the indoor climate is regular measurements of air quality and temperature. It is also important that the school has a system to ensure that the air does not contain dangerous amounts of different components, as well as to investigate whether other indoor climatic factors, such as light and radiation, acoustics and mechanical indoor environments, are adequately addressed. The State has delegated responsibility for overseeing compliance by school and school owners with the requirements of the Training Act to county offices. The requirements for the school and the school owners to have an internal control system shall facilitate the implementation of the supervision activities of the county council by requiring the school to document how it understands the requirements and what the school actually does to meet them. If such supervision reveals circumstances that are contrary to the requirements of the law, conditions may be required to be corrected. In addition to providing instructions, the county council shall provide guidance on how to meet the requirements and cooperate with the school owner to ensure a good outcome for the students. Effective and competent State supervision of good capacity is an important prerequisite for good control. More measures have therefore been put in place to strengthen the supervision of the county and to improve the management and coordination of supervisory activities at national level. Over the course of 2007, there will be efforts to target and streamline supervision through development, development of competences and guidance. Among other things, a new guide to the provision of the Training Act on the requirement for a sound internal control system in municipalities and county municipalities will be developed. The supervisor will mention the requirements and content of the obligation to have an established and sound internal control system. It shall be completed by 1 June 2007 and shall be made available to the municipalities in an appropriate manner, so that the requirements are elaborated and clarified to the school owners of the country. In addition, the Ministry will carry out an overall assessment of State instruments vis-à-vis the local government sector in order to maximise the overall impact of the measures. The evaluation will include, inter alia: also assess the relationship between supervisory practices and guidance practices, in line with the St.melding. No 16,... and no one was left. Finally, the learning environment for students — in class and out — is very important for children to be able to succeed in school. That is why a very important question is raised by the representative of Gundersen, which is a matter of high priority for the Government. I therefore look forward to good cooperation with Stortinget, and I think it is interesting that the representative Gundersen is raising this important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e960	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a good review. A lot of things have been done, and as I said, it has been focused on the area. However, what is found in Norway almost daily is that the measures are not sufficient. Somehow they don't get there. One of the things that I've got clear input on is that the standard, the follow-up to standard and requirements, is not specific enough. I would encourage the Council of State to look at that again. There is a lot of discretion, as the Council of State had in mind, and I have received quite a number of reports that it is difficult to get through complaints, and that, as I said in the introduction, it becomes a claim against claims when you promote things. What we see in society, otherwise, is that we have a food control to control everything that has to do with food, we have a state car surveillance to check that the cars we drive are not too bad. We have controls in most areas. There is a lot of evidence that we do not reach the indoor climate. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in February this year the SINTEF Building Research Institute and the Institute of Technology provided some studies on dust in new and renovated buildings. There were quite dramatic reports that dust levels were not being met. More than 60 pst. of renovated schools and 23 pst. of completely new schools had too much dust both in the hills and in the ventilation system for the rest when the buildings were put into service. Once very clear requirements have been set, and there are both regulations and laws that underline the importance of this, it just has to mean that a great deal is being done when construction is being built and when they are put into service. Here you could almost ask whether a type of right of return should not be introduced to new schools when they are to be taken over, depending on how tough the municipalities are when contracts are to be written. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e975	As I said, effective and competent state supervision of good capacity is a crucial prerequisite for good control. Just to ensure that we have an effective supervision, and that works as we wish, we have started to improve the governance of the county. Let me also say that for several years now there has been a large-scale upgrading of the school building stock in Norway. After many years of – let's say – failing investment in school buildings, we have now seen a very renewal, not least through the 15 billion DKK to be completed this year, which is the country's loan to municipalities. As a result, many municipalities have now been refurbished. Then it can be thought, as the interpellant was about, that when the school owner takes over the construction from the contractor, there is not a thorough enough job in cleaning and the kind of stuff that concerns dust in the canals – or where it might be. In that case, it is a natural duty for those who order the building, to make sure to go through the building carefully to see that the contractor has made the building ready for learning. It is clear that in the case of a building to be used as a school, for the learning of our children, extra care must be taken before taking over the building and ensure that it is in a proper condition, not least as regards the challenges that the representative Gundersen has raised in the interpellation. In the depths it is such that this responsibility rests with local authorities. That means that we have supervisory authority through the county office. But it is clear that it is the individual business that must always be careful that this is all right. That means it's the school itself, the school owner, the people who have their jobs there, and the kids who together have to make sure that this is done in the best possible way. It is true that it is crucial for children’s learning that we have a school environment — and an indoor environment — that promotes and stimulates learning. The challenges that are not least related to asthma and allergies, which were also addressed by the representative, are significant, not only in school but also in society. This is probably due to the influence of many teams – without my being sure what the reason for this is. It is therefore also obvious that the school should have an environment which, at least, does not stimulate the development of this type of disease. I think we can agree on that. I too look forward to a good debate on this issue. Of course, the government is sensitive to – and interested in – knowing if there are things we can do in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e988	We have a responsibility to ensure that our children grow up in a safe, clean and healthy environment. A poor indoor climate in schools creates disease, plagues and, not least, poor concentration — thus weakening learning. A poor indoor climate gives poor well-being and can in turn lead to an increase in bullying. As the Minister of Knowledge briefed on, the Training Act states that all students are entitled to a school environment that takes into account their health, safety, well-being and learning situation. It is also stated that students should be involved in the planning and implementation of systematic work for a good indoor climate. Everyone also has the right to send a written complaint if the school environment does not meet the legal requirements. Just since I went to primary school, and it's not that many years ago, a lot has happened. Schools themselves have addressed indoor climate problems, and students have become more concerned with a better learning environment. In many lower-level primary schools and in the SFO, indoor schools have now been introduced, which has led to the recognition of the indoor climate by many. As the interpellant focuses on in its article, the number of children with asthma is worrying. I share those concerns. These children require a special follow-up from teachers. But of course, the indoor climate in schools will have a lot to say. Many small steps can be taken that lead to major improvements for each school and student. Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations focus on their website on a range of cheap measures that can be taken to improve the indoor climate. For asthma-treated students, good cleaning, regular aeration, sunscreening, dressing gowns, a low indoor temperature, removal of food residues and garbage, and the provision of dust collectors in addition to the introduction of indoor footwear, as mentioned above, will drastically improve indoor climate. The quality of indoor climate depends on a lot — location, design, when school was built and, where appropriate, renovation. It depends on the maintenance, operation and use and organisation of the outdoor and indoor areas. As school owners, the municipality and county council are legally obliged to ensure that the indoor climate in schools is good. In the past, poor municipal economy was one of the reasons why school buildings were demolished and old. From 2005 to 2008, the local government sector will have received a real increase in income of DKK 20 billion. With the red-green government, the municipal economy has been significantly strengthened, which in turn has resulted in municipalities having the opportunity to prioritize school, refurbish school buildings and replace old ventilation facilities. It is the county council that oversees the schools on behalf of the state, as the minister of knowledge mentioned in his statement. More measures have been put in place to strengthen the supervision of the county and to improve the management and coordination of supervisory activities at national level. We see this in the Labour Party as important measures. In conclusion, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for focusing on the topic and for having started a debate that we hope can develop in the right direction. There is no doubt that a bad indoor climate gives a bad school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1001	Yes, our students deserve an optimal learning climate. There are many factors, many of which have been involved, which play a role in a good learning environment, including: the competence of the teacher, the relationships between the students and between teachers and students. We politicians focus a lot on knowledge in school and on the general learning atmosphere. However, we have often forgotten that the indoor climate has a major impact on the learning environment. If the Norwegian school is to be one of the best in the world, this also requires an indoor climate that makes the brains of our students work optimally. The problems with the indoor climate have been identified several times. Several of us in the hall today probably remember the requirements that were set for a new building law. Still, there are new building regulations that are going to make the buildings even closer, some people call it plastic houses. In the old days, air was to be ventilated, all windows were to be up, the classroom was to be closed – proper airing. Now one sees that this actually had a consequence. Many non-functional air-conditioning systems have been built that have not provided that air-conditioning capability. The indoor climate is helping to reduce the learning capacity of our students. This is a problem that needs to be taken seriously. We cannot rely on the fact that in many contexts our children are offered an indoor climate that is far below the minimum standards of good air quality – both in the Work Environment Act and in the Training Act. As I said, one of the main causes of poor indoor climate is poor ventilation systems. In addition, problems such as moulds, rats and moisture repeaters are found in Norwegian school buildings. The representative, Gundersen, was in this with the post-control of new buildings. It is also something that one sees in the municipal sector, and that applies not only to school buildings but also to other buildings, that it is a major problem that the back-up is not done as it should. One discovered defects and defects that could have been fixed a lot, much earlier. The Progress Party believes that poor maintenance of public buildings is poor public resource management. In addition, poor indoor climates in school buildings lead to unworthy employment for employees and students. This, in turn, can lead to serious harassment — as several have pointed out — such as illness, poor well-being, more absence, reduced learning and more unrest in classrooms. In this context, the Progress Party proposed in our 2007 alternative state budget to extend the interest-rate compensation scheme for school and church buildings. This would give investment in addition to the Government's 2 billion proposals. This would lead to more school buildings being rehabilitated or new schools being built. We therefore believe that the work on rehabilitating school buildings is too slow, and we believe primarily that the state should take care of the refurbishment of these. It is sad that the other parties could not support that proposal. But we hope it will come eventually. Bad municipal finances are often blamed for the poor indoor climate in schools and kindergartens. Poor economy means that rehabilitation must follow a timetable that extends over several years. Economic constraints and the fact that the municipality does not choose to give priority to rehabilitating school buildings allow many years — and many children then have to stay in poor school buildings — to carry out the necessary conversion in schools. Had it, for example, has been a town hall, where it primarily works for adults, who had had a bad indoor climate as many schools have, it had become noisy. It must be a cross of thought for all of us that we expose our child to something that we adults had not found in. To me, it's a cross of thought. At the end of the school year, Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations report that they do not see any signs of a decline in the problem of poor indoor climate in schools and kindergartens. In addition, they say that many employees, parents and students report major problems with the indoor climate of the year that has passed. We find this very worrying in the Progress Party, as many others have also said, and we believe that the requirements for indoor climate measurements in schools and kindergartens are too poor. Now, the Council of State has pointed out some things that can be done, and that we assume will be done, and we still need to focus on this from the committee, from the Storting and from the Government. This is such an important thing, and it has such great consequences for our children and their growth, that we keep the potato warm. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that there must be clear guidelines on air quality standards and requirements. That's actually the least we can do for our children, to provide an optimal learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1020	We had an interpellation about children and asthma here in the hall a few weeks ago, and where indoor climate was part of the problem. That is why I am pleased that the representative Gundersen is now following up on indoor climates in schools and kindergartens. Bad indoor climate in schools and kindergartens is becoming a serious social problem. As the interpellant correctly pointed out, schoolchildren have little opportunity to influence their own working environment. The same applies to children who are in kindergarten. We know that there are many children, yes alarmingly many children, who suffer from asthma and allergies. Over 10 pst. by Norwegian children now have asthma, according to Norway’s Asthma and Allergi Associations. A large study from Oslo, conducted at Ullevål University Hospital, shows that 20 p.m. of all children have had asthma during their first ten years of life. This study has followed children from birth to ten years of age. Similar studies are also available abroad. All studies show a worryingly high incidence of childhood asthma. Those are scary numbers. There is a doubling of the number of children affected during a 10-year period. The presence of asthma among Norwegian children is thus higher than in other European countries. It is the most frequent chronic disease among children, and the main cause of children being hospitalised. This can be clearly related to the indoor climate, both in homes, kindergartens and schools, as well as to the outdoor environment and pollution, especially in large cities. We know that children are plagued when the indoor climate is bad. This not only affects the children, but often the rest of the family, and it has major societal implications. It is assumed that only 10 pst. of asthma cases due to inheritance, the remainder due to external factors such as environment and lifestyle. So many kids get sick of going to kindergarten, and they get sick of the indoor environment in school. Although there is a need for much more research in this area, we know enough to say that a better indoor climate in schools and kindergartens is likely to be a positive contribution to improving the situation for these children. A study carried out by Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations among parents shows that parents experience that employees in schools and kindergartens do not have enough knowledge of asthma and allergies, or other indoor climate diseases. Teachers, pre-school teachers, health sisters and SFO staff say they need more knowledge and information. I would be surprised if the school doctors and nurses do not also need more knowledge in this area, and a awareness of the link between indoor climate and, for example, Asthma in children. Lack of knowledge both among professionals and politicians in the municipalities is usually the cause of poor indoor climate in public buildings. Many people do not know the Labour Environment Act for children, or the regulations for environmental health protection in schools and kindergartens. The state's construction office believes that there is a lack of knowledge that leads to the indoor climate in schools and kindergartens not being prioritised. The indoor climate is often sacrificed in the construction process because it is to be built quickly and cheaply. Ventilation systems down-prioritised, high construction speed results in concrete not drying properly, and low-cost materials are used. At all events, too little attention is paid to clean construction processes. It is a well-known case that there is poor maintenance of buildings very many places. The result is poor indoor climate and unsustainable conditions in schools and kindergartens, which are very unfavourable to people with asthma and allergies. It's worrying. The kindergarten and school are, as the interpellant and others have been in, a central part of the everyday life of children and young people. Then there must also be a place where they can experience health protection, and that not the plagues they have become worse, or that poor indoor climates actually trigger an asthma or allergy disease. Very well said from the Council of State, to which I fully subscribe. Now it's all, the most important thing left is action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1043	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Gundersen, for addressing a very important issue. A good indoor climate in school is a very important and crucial prerequisite for our students to be able to feel good in our schools. At the same time, I would like to thank the Council of State Øystein Djupedal for a very good response, which shows that this government, and also the Council of State, is very concerned about the working environment for our students. A good working environment, both physical and mental, is essential for day-to-day planning, both for learning and play. The government has spent a lot of money cleaning up school buildings and building new school buildings in recent years, but we know that there are kids who don't have a good enough indoor climate yet. We know that there are still kids who have hurt their heads before lunch, and we can't accept that. We have to have barley that invites learning. I'm very pleased, as I said in the beginning, that the government has put this in focus. So far, the government has spent NOK 5 billion, which has been invested in the lending scheme, to clean up or build new school buildings. However, studies also show that up to DKK 50 billion are missing — the delay has grown so great — that we can get our school buildings well enough. But we also see a lot of good news in the paper. The representative Gundersen was into many of the negative things we see in the paper, and they exist, but there are a lot of good news about new construction coming, schools that have been refurbished, and that have got a very good standard. I also want to focus on the law adopted by the Stortinget in the previous period, the so-called Working Environment Act for pupils, Chapter 9a of the Training Act, where it is statutory for each student to have the right to a school environment that promotes both learning, well-being and health. I'm very pleased with this chapter and the division it has, where you have a third. The first is that you have an individual, legal right to a good school. The second is that a school environment committee is to be set up at each school where parents are to be a majority. It is very important that the school environment committee has come into place in all schools around the country, because this is the link. This school environment committee will work to make all students feel good at school. They're the ones who know where the shoe prints, and they're the ones who know what to do, and where to put the challenges. It is, as the council pointed out, the municipalities and county councils as school owners who are responsible for following this up. In the law that the Storting has passed, there are very clear penalties if these laws are not followed up. I am very pleased with the debate that has been raised today. The interpellant said it is important to raise this debate this year. I want to say that it is important to have this debate every year, while focusing on the working environment of our students every single day. Governments have done a lot, but I want to challenge him to start a systematic review of how these school environment committees work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1060	I want to thank the interpellant for helping to focus on this issue. The topic deserves debate – and it has been debated before in this Chamber – but most of all action is needed. We can all agree that there is a clear premise that no students should get sick or suffer harm from going to school. Students go to primary school for 10 years and are entitled to an additional three years in secondary school. That means they spend a lot of years in school buildings. At this time, all pupils shall be required to have an environment, both during schoolwork and during play, which is safe and healthy for children’s health, learning and development. The training law Chapter 9a-1, which was adopted by the Bondevik II government, is very clear in this area. ‘All pupils in primary and secondary schools are entitled to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning.’ Although the law is initially clear, it may not be as clear in the practical everyday life. Aspects relating to the school's working environment are covered by a comprehensive and somewhat complex legal and regulatory framework, which partly interferes with each other. There may also be grounds for pointing out that the municipality is most often the owner, the supervisory authority and the granting authority of the school facilities and the school activities. Unfortunately, it is still likely that several schools cannot guarantee a good indoor climate. Bad indoor climate in kindergartens and schools is a repeat in most newspapers. It is clear that it takes an unreasonable amount of time to rectify conditions that create significant health and learning problems. The National Audit Office has carried out a survey on the state of Norwegian school buildings. More than half of the school buildings surveyed were considered unsatisfactory, and it became clear that a number of schools break laws and regulations relating to the physical school environment. There are also other reports that we have heard today that point in this direction. It is, as I said, the county officials who are responsible for supervising the school owner in the case of infringements of the Training Act. Nevertheless, only the county of Hedmark has reported that they have a school surveillance system. 16 of the statesmen say that they have no system of supervision of the physical environment at the schools in the county. That's why I'm glad that the Council of State says that we should now follow up on the fact that this will be part of the supervision of the statesmen and that it will be put in place. I have to say that the public neglects an important task when the municipalities avoid taking action to improve the indoor climate in the schools, and the county officials do not care that the municipalities do their job. When this does not happen, we must be able to expect the Council of State to take responsibility and to intervene to ensure that the Training Act is complied with. Before we got the Education Act chapter 9a on the school environment, there was a regulation on environmental health protection that regulated this. This produced little results in the time it worked. Unfortunately, we now see that even though this work environment provision in Chapter 9a of the Training Act goes somewhat better, it does not produce the results at the rate that we had expected and wanted. The question will therefore be whether more targeted action needs to be taken. I think the Council of State might consider creating an action plan on indoor climate in Norwegian schools as a resource for municipalities. The plan should focus on the state of the environment, environmental monitoring, and not least on the concrete measures that municipalities can and should take. There is no doubt that a poor working environment could impair pupils’ learning and health. Bad indoor climates negatively affect health, increase stress and reduce concentration and job appetite. I mean, students who are good learn the most and the best. Therefore, all pupils should be required to have a safe and developing job and a good school environment. Having a school with good professional content is of little help if the environment around it inhibits learning. As a final point, I also want to underline the exciting projects in many schools where you use natural air-conditioning systems. I think that is something that should be sought in many new buildings, which will be much cheaper in terms of maintenance, and which also often yield very good results in terms of indoor climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1095	This is an important debate, and I would like to thank the interpellant who has addressed this topic. I am also aware that Sonja Irene Sjøli had an interview about this earlier this winter. There are a lot of people who are concerned about the theme, and that's very good. The council had a reassuring answer, I would say. Among other things, he said: in its article: ‘A good indoor climate may be the most important part of the physical environment at school because children spend most of the school day indoors. At the same time, the indoor climate is crucial for the student’s learning situation.’ That, of course, is quite right. It is desirable that the students be more out of town, and we have many and good examples of how different teaching can be done outdoors, for example. mathematics education. I don't have to mention so much, but it's not just gym and ball games that can happen out in nature. It should also be developed. More physical activity is absolutely necessary, and it's important, right and good learning. Nevertheless, we cannot escape the fact that the indoor climate is absolutely essential. Both the Council of State and others have argued that different laws take care of this area. Monitoring systems and monitoring mechanisms shall ensure compliance with the rules. The school owner and the school are responsible for the day-to-day care of the requirements of Chapter 9a of the Training Act on a good physical school environment. An important part of this work is the duty of each school to carry out continuous and systematic work. Thus, the school owner must ensure that an internal control system is in place, in addition to the regulation on environmental health protection administered by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This means, in practice, that the school owners cannot be careful about being passive and waiting for complaints; they must be active to ensure that the legislation is followed. This is a very comprehensive area, and since the municipalities that school owners are responsible for the schools, it obviously has something to do with economics. Fortunately – I would say – it has become better local economy. From 2005 it has been strengthened by DKK 20 billion. But that's how things take time. Although the municipalities have received better advice now, this is a large and comprehensive area. Gundersen now mentioned, and what I thought was interesting, that SINTEF has come up with a report that says there is too much dust in new buildings – perhaps especially important for schools. I have been involved in building old homes – it was really important there as well. So there's probably a weakness in the bidding rounds. So it's going to have to be clearer for the contractors than what they're doing right now. I think that the municipalities may need to be made more aware of this important area. The builder and the builder must be fully aware of the requirements. As mentioned earlier in the debate, awareness of the staff of kindergartens and schools is also necessary. Many have referred to the websites of the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations. I've also looked at them. There's a wide-ranging problem around this disease image, and there's a lot of factors involved. I'll just mention one that I got a little fascinated by. One could take out a page there that gave a classroom certificate. There one was to indicate the number of teachers and the number of students who were in the room, the time between each venting, when the ventilation system had been looked over the last, etc. But at the bottom there was something that fascinated me. It said in capital letters, and exclamation marks afterwards: "Air likes to open the windows in the spare minutes!" So we must not forget it. In fact, in recent years I think it's been a little undervalued tool. I know, of course, that it's not as easy to air anywhere, but it can be done anywhere. Then we're in on a report from NIFU STEP – since we talked a little bit about district – that concerns the physical environment. There they mention that there is little difference between people, but at all stages the students in Uppland are most satisfied, and they are more satisfied in rural areas than in urban areas when it comes to the country as a whole. Now, of course, this shouldn't be a district debate, but I just want to say that the Education Act Chapter 9a must apply all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1122	This is one of the many wonderful debates of the Storting – wonderful in that everyone agrees that there should not be a bad indoor climate. I assume that everyone agrees that we have enough rules – in buckets and buckets. Everyone agrees that you have good intentions. One can wonder: Why are not all good intentions implemented in practice? To draw inspiration from outside this hall, I think we're all going to worry about something Bill Clinton said when he was in Norway after he left as president. He had found out how the small actions of everyday life made a difference, given that they were put into an all right system. I think politics is about putting some of the little things in everyday life into a system. Politicians – whether they're state councils, bigots representatives or anything else – always have a management ability to bring people together in good Norwegian ways around a table, set a good example and say that this is how we do it here. It spreads very quickly. What I think is one of the problems, is the same thing that the representative Sjøli was talking about, that we, for example. have very strong provisions in municipal health law and provisions on environmental health protection, which range in fines and buckets for a number of conditions in Norway, including indoor climate. I think the representative Sjøli is absolutely right that we lack the level of knowledge and awareness in this area. I know this myself, without comparison, from other areas, for example. when we talk about family violence, that we have regulations, but the practical knowledge is lacking in those we can call the field workers of life. At the same time, we know that the Training Act has clear provisions. We know that any reasonable maintenance programme for construction will take care of this. We know, for example. that a little smart and wise people in many parts of the country instead of a ventilation system will choose windows that are tight and maintained so that they can be opened and closed, because the level of pollution is no different than that of access to fresh air. But then one must have windows that can be opened and closed. What I'm trying to talk about is not an attempt at anything but saying that it would have been very good, with the commitment I feel is with everyone, including the Council of State, if you could create some of the examples where you put the tone that I brought with me from my childhood, with these movies I watched that had the undertone that now we're building the country. We can all say that, whether we belong to the Left, the Right or the Social Democratic parties, because there's something about it. We know when we get to bring people together, that none of us are interested that the kids are going to feel bad, and none of us are interested in not having a good indoor climate. As for the political action, former Per Kleppe State Council once stopped me – he looked at me, and then he said: Doors, sometimes some tough action is required to bring together the macro-level of policy and the micro-level of policy. In the everyday language of politics, the tough grips are called either the wise action plan, the wise pilot project, what sets the good tone, what sets the good example, what creates the energies. I'm just leaving this there for open exploitation, because it's an instrument I've taken to incredibly many times through my political seagoing times, both locally and nationally. I have to say that it gives results. I think the Council of State has every chance of having such a pressure on it and taking advantage of this idea. I also think that's something he'll like to do. I think we get some arenas called arenas for battle, and then we get some arenas called arenas for friendly, all right cooperation, because we're all served with it. I thought, what are you going to say when you go to the pulpit today? Well, you're going to go up to the pulpit, and then you're going to be a little bit neat, and then you're going to try to divide by practical experience with how to do it. I've been in local politics and national politics for so long that I know that when those moments are there, we get something in Norway. So it's that you can always have a checklist that says these ten things are easy to do with indoor climate and kids, these ten things require a little bit more, and these ten things cost more. Just getting someone to make that systemic and go after that systematic, that means life is getting better. When you have some experience with politics, I think it's an obligation to share your experience with others, not to try to write something down, but to try to write down the social solutions and contribute to our going together. We have the rules of the game, and we have the rules of the law. But perhaps with targeted further training of some and the good cooperation situation, the representative Gundersen's very price-worthy intention to remind us of and give us a kick that we are going to take it seriously will be fulfilled. This was an appeal from the representative Dørum on behalf of the Left that sometimes there is a rift, skill and spirit of cooperation not only that leads us to build roads and get to public transport, it can also lead to good social relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1145	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I didn't expect so much disagreement about what we actually have as a goal, because no one says you want a bad indoor climate and a bad learning environment, so it wasn't a surprise. I very much agree with the representative Dørum that we have rules, regulations and the kind of things in buckets and buckets, so that's not what I want. I'm going to come back to what I said in the beginning, that here you can also use the students in a system to get a much better follow-up. There the debate in itself has found that it is very strange. I would like to comment on this with local economy first. And we're not going to do the math that was presented. The difference in the municipal economy is included, but the difference is also taken into account when you reduce other tasks to the municipalities. This isn't a debate for today, but I just want to say it, so you see that here it's not just plus in the margin. So it's this thing with new barley. Many people have said that there is a lot of work going on in school buildings, and we know that. What we have to record is that the situation doesn't get better. After all, the Sintef report demonstrates that the situation is, to a very large extent, also crazy in new buildings. It has been widely agreed by several governments that it has to be invested in school buildings, but it does not get any better. There I think we should listen to what the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations say. They ask for clearer targets and clearer standards, so that you can know what to measure it against. I do not have such competence that I can judge it, but this is a very clear wish and claim from them. When the representative Eriksen points out that only the county of Hedmark has established a system for this, it is almost shocking. I hope it's controlled. I could take that rose because I'm actually from Hedmark. But it's quite shocking that this doesn't apply to everyone else. It's a sign that there's something that doesn't work at all. I would like to ask the Council of State to actually see if this is not suitable for placement with an independent body. We have a lot of environments that can be relevant, that really have competence in this area, and that can be drivers to get better standards on this in the municipalities. It is revealed that there is little competence in the municipalities, and getting even more rules and regulations I don't think helps. I think that in such a scheme, the students could actually become part of a scheme that wasn't expensive to follow up, and it could be part of the pedagogical exercise to learn how important indoor climate is for the students. The last wish of the Asthma and Allergy Associations is to actually intensify research on what are the most important elements of an indoor climate environment and how we fix it. More attention should also be given to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1162	Let me thank Mr Gundersen and Mr Stortinget's members for a good and profound debate on an important topic. As many have been involved, this is not a time for conflict, for this is a topic on which we will have a common interest in finding good solutions. In this way, the invitation from the various parties is something I take with me as a positive part of this debate, to go on with it. Let me comment on some of this. The supervisor we now make, who will be sent to the municipalities during the summer, will not be a new regulation, but it will underline the responsibilities of the municipality with its internal control systems, in order to ensure that this will be carried out more properly. It's quite obvious, as I think more people were involved, that we have a lot of rules for this, but maybe the knowledge isn't big enough. I'm not an engineer, but I've been told by many people who have more knowledge of this, that the way we build houses in Norway in our cold climate, with a lot of insulation in the walls, means that the natural ventilation you had in the houses when you didn't build so solid houses, leads us to more plagues with asthma and allergies. It sounds wise and likely to me, without me having any scientific evidence to say that this is the case. But it's probably the same building culture we take with us when we build schools and kindergartens, that we should make sure that our children don't freeze, and in that way the houses become so dense that there is no natural ventilation. I've had the pleasure of visiting schools that have what Eriksen's representative had in them, what's called natural ventilation, where you use airflow wisely to get fresh air into the building in a completely different way than with these extensive ventilation systems. I don't know enough about this, except that I think we have a lot to learn here. I also believe that the Asthma and Allergy Association have a lot of knowledge to contribute, precisely because they have a lot of first-hand knowledge about these kinds of challenges, just like construction. There are also things we're going to bring with us, and of course we're going to include in our conversations with the Municipal Councils, so that they can take this with them to their members, because I think that can be an important experience to pass on. Let me also conclude by saying that the students of course have an important role. Chapter 9a of the Training Act, which came into force in the previous enlargement period, which is an important chapter such as a broad commitment to large-scale and government to get in place, links this to the participation of the students. That means that students have a role to play in this. The representative of Lena Jensen also challenged me if we could not investigate how far the municipalities had come to establish these cooperation bodies at the school. It's a challenge I'm taking with me. I think it's important that we push it a little bit so that the students and the teachers and those who are going to sit together in this sample can take on the work environment in a constructive way. That means that I guess we'll come back to challenges around this in the future. But I'm pleased with the Greatness's strong commitment to this, which has been commonplace. The size should also know that the government is concerned about this, and we're going to do what we can to go the small steps in the right direction, because here it's about a long-term work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1179	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1185	The size shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1206	In Case No: 2–4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01.ana.ud1321e1217	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require the word under Section 37(a) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting's been cancelled.
