ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04-lower.ana.ud1083e42	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The President has been given indications that this could be a short debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04-lower.ana.ud1083e51	The proposition we are dealing with today means the right to extended child protection when one parent is in prison, is in custody for a long time, or is sentenced to detention and coercion in mental health protection or care. It's been about a year since there was a thorough interpellation debate in this room about what we could jointly contribute to improving the situation for prisoners' children. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality promised to look at the economic situation of the parent who remains alone with children because the spouse or the cohabitant comes to prison. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality has followed up with the proposition we are discussing today. An overall committee is satisfied that the right to extended child protection will apply both when one parent is in prison, when one parent is sentenced to custody, and when forced transfer to mental health protection or care and the convicted parent for that reason is unable to live with the spouse or cohabitant. We are also pleased that the system is not being tested. It harmonizes with the other provisions of the Child Protection Act on the non-necessary granting of child protection. The debate on justice policy often focuses on the perpetrator, on guilt, on the length of the sentence, and on the victim’s situation and rights. A group of victims of crime who receive little or no attention are prisoners' children and close families. In many cases, it is difficult for a father, a mother or a child to be convicted of crime and to have to go to prison. There is therefore particular reason to focus on the situation of prisoners’ children. These are children who can experience sleepiness, depression, psychosocial distress, anxiety and bullying. The Christian People's Party – and I believe the entire committee as well – believes that this group of children should be given special attention both during the settlement, on release and on the issue of possible expulsion of the offender. The research foundation, Fafo, carried out a life-cycle survey among prisoners in 2004. The survey concluded that four out of ten prisoners are below the poverty line and generally have much lower gross income than the rest of the population. Over half of the prisoners also have children. Fafo’s study suggests that children of prisoners are a group of children who often find it difficult, not only purely human, but also economic. The right to extended child welfare for these children will also be part of the effort to address children living in poverty. Furthermore, an overall committee agrees that the right to extended child welfare arises from the start of the compensation. However, the Committee disagrees on the length of time for one parent to have to zone in order for the other to be entitled to extended child protection. The parties to the Government consider that the judgment must involve imprisonment without conditions for at least six months in order for the right to extended child protection to take place, while the other parties consider that the lower limit should be set at three months. It has never been intended that the perpetrator's family be punished for the infidelity that has been committed. We are therefore pleased that there is agreement that society should stand up for the relatives of prisoners as for other single parents. I welcome the proposal adopted today and recommend the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04-lower.ana.ud1083e72	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04-lower.ana.ud1083e80	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04-lower.ana.ud1083e139	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04-lower.ana.ud1083e149	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
