ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e51	The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e54	On behalf of the representatives Erna Solberg, Inge Wohnning, Martin Engeset and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for legislative provisions that give the right to leave and income insurance schemes in connection with care tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e59	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e73	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e82	The matter of the mercury load in the wreck after U-864, caused by a representative proposal, has become a significantly larger matter both in scope and attention than many might have thought initially. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I soon realized that there were major differences of interest here, which required wide and open information and dialogue. Therefore, it was also quite natural to organise two hearings, in which 23 hearings have been brought to the attention of the case. The matter was eaten when Mr. Dag Terje Andersen, Minister of Fisheries and Coast, previously this winter, was so clear and uncompromisingly going in to cover the wreck with olive sand. The concerns of the coastal population, the fishing industry and not least many professional environments were many, without this appearing to have any impact on the temporary government council or on the Coastal Agency as a professional body. But many others began to doubt. Annual meetings and national meetings of several political parties inside and outside the Government requested more time, more studies, impact assessments and risk analysis. In particular, it was considered that the option to lift was undervalued and under-explored in terms of alternatives and their risks. But also professional questions in terms of biological conditions and metallurgical processes related to the establishment of a swamp with an oxygen-depleted environment that accelerates the drying process were highlighted. Further in its extension: the effects on the steel hull, the pressure tanks and torpedo tubes, with large quantities of compressed air and explosives, were not well enough mapped and assessed for safety with regard to the external impact of different types over a long period of time. During the hearing on 16 April 2007, it was also clear that no reputational risk analysis had been carried out for the Norwegian fishing and farming industry in order to allow these industries to be harmed in the longer term. It is not everyday food with boasts of government councils from the opposition, but in this case I would like to give recognition to Minister of Fisheries and Coast Helga Pedersen, who immediately seized her when she was in office after her leave, canceled the summer's cover-up and asked for a new round to be taken to assess alternative lifting methods – despite the fact that many had come to the Coastal Agency's recommendation, not least those themselves, but also the Deputy Council of State and the country's Prime Minister. I choose to believe that this was sincere, not to suggest an ever stronger opposition in my own party before the national meeting. That remains to be seen. However, from the non-governmental parties in the Committee, we have also pointed out a number of aspects of the cover-up solution and the different risk aspects and consequences of these, which also emerged during the hearing. We have asked the Council of State to take a closer look at this. I would more than suggest that she is wise to look into this, for otherwise the final recommendation on the solution will not be complete. Questions will remain unanswered. We have also pointed out that the relatively bombastic comment of the Coastal Agency on its own solution, and almost the headage of others — including professional objections at the last hearing — is the reason why we doubt their objectivity. However, in addition to recommending to the Council an alternative solution to this handling, the undersigned will no longer attempt to instruct. One thing that this one has has major environmental and pollution implications. It is therefore essential for further political work on the matter that the role and views of State pollution control should be clarified and developed. We have clearly marked ourselves as a nation against the sins of other countries, and therefore we have to take account with great international attention of how we clean up this matter. The matter has already attracted considerable international attention – perhaps not so strange! 65 tonnes of mercury as a potential contaminant in one of the world's richest marine areas is not a daily diet. So a formality: the minority writes in a note that the proposals made by the proposers are in fact being dealt with in the Stortinget. As well as the majority as the minority in the case, the Council of State will come back to the Storting with its conclusions. Then it becomes misleading that the decision today rejects it. I would therefore like to invite all parties to amend this to attach the document to the protocol, which is correct in relation to this. A proposal for this will be distributed in the hall, and I'll take it up. Otherwise, I will deal with the proposals on which the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e105	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e110	I would like to thank the case manager for his good work on the matter. My question is directed to the fact that the previous government, which Halleraker's party was part of, also knew of this matter. This is not a new matter. This submarine has been playing there since the days of war. My question is directed to why Right, when they were in position, didn't this matter drift up at the pace? They are now grateful that the red-green government has taken hold of this matter, which one might have cleared out of the road itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e117	I am not quite sure if I understood the question when you know the history of the case. There is no doubt that the previous government also addressed this matter on several occasions. Invitations were made, among other things: The size to adopt additional appropriations to clean up and clarify what had to be done. What created the major conflicts in the matter, however, was that the Deputy Coastal and Fisheries Ministers concluded as the body of the Coastal Agency did and recommended coverage. The Bondevik government has never done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e122	The representative Halleraker has on several occasions underlined his strong mistrust of the Coastal Agency. In principle, it's probably a little bit of a concern that a depositor should judge, or plan, the work of underlying agencies, but I'll leave it. In the Official Journal of the European Communities on 24 April Halleraker said: ‘I find it difficult to understand that this department will be able to carry out an objective assessment, as it has done on the part of the Coastal Works.’ Then I ask the representative Halleraker: Do Right and Halleraker still have such strong mistrust of the Coastal Works, and will this distrust continue regardless of what conclusion the Coastal Works draw?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e134	As I said in my post, I find it very difficult to see that the Coastal Plant is acting objectively in this matter. The background to this is not least their own conduct at the last hearing. I think everyone present in that room was relatively surprised at the attitude they showed toward others in this matter. In the right, we are very clear that in such cases, decisions and assessments should be left to an alternative body within the management system. We also recommended that. However, we will not go so far as to try to instruct this, but assume that the Government itself is making this assessment. It's the government's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e141	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for his contribution to obtaining a lot of information today, but if the Deputy State Council of Andersen is to be referred to as a bombastic and somewhat nuanced matter, there are others in the opposition who could try to see this matter from a little more points of view. Heavy professional environments, such as: NIVA, who has given advice to the Coastal Administration in this matter, has been working specifically on this matter for four years, and NIVA is Norway's heaviest professional environment for pollution of soil sediments. They've been very worried about what a raise could lead to. So this concern has Halleraker defeid on the grounds that mercury is so heavy that it won't pose this kind of danger. Isn't it wise to listen to the trade unions in these kinds of cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e148	Yes, in all things, as politicians, we must listen to professional environments. What's the problem in this case is that the trade unions are partly opposed to each other. The NIVA report and recommendation are met by relevant settings. That's what's serious. As far as the lifting option is concerned, I assume, therefore, that the coastal and fisheries ministers who are sitting here have assessed this differently, precisely because the alternative lifting methods that could help to ensure that this happened were not well enough investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e153	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e157	Today we are dealing with an important matter, Document No. 8:33 for 2006-2007 on submarine U-864. There has been a great deal of interest in the submarine, both mediated, political and especially from the population living around the area. Nor is it so strange that you are concerned about this matter and care. There have been strong opinions about how this should be done, and some claim that they have the right answers and are 100 pst. safe in his case, but that is not the case. It is now important to take good time, as the majority assumes that the Government will return to the Stortingen case in an appropriate manner and at a time when the Government considers it appropriate in relation to the necessary assessments it has to make. That is why we have rejected the proposal of the proposers to present such a case immediately, and we do not understand that it is as important as possible to take this matter as quickly as possible, as the Progress Party, among other things. suggests. U-864 has been there for many years. Now that you're going to go a few rounds, it's even more important that you have some ice in your stomach, so that you can make new assessments in peace and quiet. The danger of a major mercury contamination from the wreckage makes this case too serious for us to take chances. Actually, that's what this is all about. I don't just think, but I know, that the Coastal Plant has the same objective: to find the option that, overall, is the best solution for the environment. The Coastal Agency is the Department of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry of Acute Pollution. Therefore, it is quite natural that the Swedish Coast Guard Agency is leading the further work to be done to investigate the cancellation option, something else would be completely impossible. Then you could really talk about distrust. That's why it's important to realize that with the knowledge that the government had this winter, you couldn't take the chance to lift the wreck with cargo, and I think that the Coastal Works and the Government will be believed in. So it's like someone's accusing the government of having turned this case around. That's not right. I rather think that the opposition should have praised the government for the decision it has made, to want to turn more stones. So finally, we're going to hope that the government, after going the necessary rounds and making its decision to the Stortinget, will receive the broadest possible political support for the option being chosen. It is very important in such a difficult case that you base your political decisions on the competence we have per. today. That's why it's important that we get the time we need, and let the government get some rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e177	Has not the Labour Party representative come to realize that the Progress Party has not repeated its original proposal? As the rapporteur recently stated, there has just been so much new information through consultations that what ends up as a proposal from different opposition parties, including from the Progress Party, is of course completely different than it was at the entrance. The purpose of proposing was to get the matter to Stortinget, out of the government offices. Question no. 2: Why does the Workers' Party not want to look at the removal option, the third independent removal option, when it comes to having a broad, good and thorough assessment, which the representative himself now expresses must be the result of this exercise? Why don't you look at the third option? It became clear, especially at the last hearing on 16 April, that removing mercury as an alternative to raising it with mercury is an independent alternative. Why does the Labour Party not want to look carefully at that solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e186	I also said in my post that now the government has to get a rest of work to turn the stones that are needed to get a solution to this. We've now had a lot of laps on it, and I think it's important that you now get to grips with this, and that you now go a few laps to get to clean up if you're going to do one or the other. I would also ask the opposition to put the government at ease in this situation. When it comes to what I've got with me or not, there's a lot of things going on in this case. However, I believe that at least now we should agree that the option that the Government comes up with must receive the broadest possible political support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e193	It may seem that the representative Stroem did not hear everything I said. After all, I just acknowledged to the Council of State that she has turned the case around. On 17 March, the annual meeting in Hordaland Arbeiderparti adopted an opinion in the same direction. At the same meeting, the country's prime minister, who, on the other hand, was very clear that the wreck had to be covered. So he supported the Council of State Day Terje Andersen. However, helga Pedersen, the state council, did not meet the opposition as well as others. What's interesting in this context is, what does the Workers' Party's big group really mean? Do you have an independent opinion on the matter that can help eliminate the environmental threat of Fedje?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e202	With regard to the relationship between the Government and the Workers' Party's large-scale group, there have been many rounds. It is not possible to stick under the chair that there have been different opinions in this matter. But I think it is important now that the government gets credit for having taken up the matter again, because it has been a difficult and complicated matter. At the time when it was supposed to cover the wreck, we thought it was a correct solution. But then you've gone a few rounds, and it's no shame to turn around – it doesn't mean turn around when it comes to what to do – but that you take this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e209	I noticed that the representative Ström has now in the change of line that the government has turned around in this matter. That was not the same thing as the article. But is it not the case that the government's own representatives have contributed to the government's turning around? As far as I have seen from the debate here on the Stortinget and in conversation with the government's own representatives, there has been a disagreement with the conclusion that was originally reached. The Christian People's Party is pleased with this reversal. So let's do it with hibernation. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that we are now getting a broad review, a complete review, of the situation of the submarine. We do not want to interfere with who you are going to use, whether it is the Coast Guard or others is the government's responsibility in the matter. But in order to have next round's stability because of going out so strongly, we now expect to get a big deal for the Storting in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e218	The representative Jan Sahl is trying to focus on me saying that the government had turned around. If I'm going to be very precise about that, I said in my post that you now want to turn some stones to look at the lifting option. It was because this case has been complicated, and you want to go a few more rounds. So if it's perceived as the government has turned around in this case, it's actually in relation to turning some rocks. The representative, Jan Sahl, has probably come to realize that there have been different perceptions in the government apparatus and in the big group regarding this matter, but at least we made it clear that it was to be covered in the first round. That's why you want to go a few more rounds based on the situation we have. There has been a lot of uncertainty about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e225	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e228	This case concerns an international environmental scandal in Norway’s own backyard, more specifically in the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland. It's not a local matter, it's not a regional matter. This is a matter of international interest. What does Norway itself do with a marine environmental poison in coastal areas? Of course, for a nation that, through its Prime Minister, is seeking the leadership role among the world's leading environmental nations, this is of international interest. It is also a matter of international implications for Norway as a fishing nation. That is why we have recorded that different fisheries organisations have been very committed to the matter, and at both hearings that the Committee has had, we have called for the removal of mercury. It's mercury, not just a little bit, but a lot of mercury. At least 65 tonnes are stored in metal containers inside the submarine. We find few, if any, similar situations. As stated in their strong and long-standing arguments for cover, the Coastal Plant does not have 30 known international cases of cover. That is at best incorrect information. It is regrettable that this is carried over and repeated by the competent authority. On the other hand, it is known to many – but perhaps not to the Coastal Works and perhaps not to the Department – that since the mid-1950s Japan has been struggling with the fatal consequences of mercury dumping in the sea, which is said to have started in 1925. It's about Minamata, the Japanese disaster. In 1959, a Japanese university concluded that the release of organic mercury was the cause of what has been described as the Minamata disease: the nervous system was paralyzed. Even the unborn were hit. Sources I have found have reported 1,760 confirmed victims, while 3,000 are waiting for replacement. I'm not pointing at this to paint a scare image, but to stress that the consequences if mercury leaks out and connects to seawater are that the poison goes into the food chain, that the toxic effect is reinforced, and that the effect on those who eat/exposed to such poison can be evident over a 50-year period. The idea of fresh Norwegian fish can be difficult to combine with ‘The Minamata Disaster’. We are pleased with the first important ‘operation’ in the case, namely the Workers’ Party’s ‘stupid operation’. On 17 March of this year, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said at the annual meeting of the Hordaland Workers' Party: 'It is urgent to cover up'. On 17 April of this year – two days before the national meeting of the Workers' Party started – the Minister for Fisheries said: ‘In the light of consultations held in Stortinget, where several actors have come up with new proposals on how to lift the submarine, more time is needed to investigate the lifting option of the submarine missile’. The hearings and proceedings in Stortinget have taken place on the basis of initiatives and proposals from the Progress Party. As the proposer, I am pleased with the ‘spinning operation’. I am much less satisfied with the arrangements and framework for further treatment. The Progress Party wishes to consider raising and other alternatives other than the Coastal Works. It has been rejected by the Council of State. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that another department should take over the case. It is natural for the Ministry of the Environment to become the Ministry of the Environment, and the Progress Party therefore proposes it. I'm dealing with that proposal. I also point out that there is a competent disagreement between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Fisheries on the role of State pollution control in this matter. The Party of Progress considers that the Authority must also approve the solution when the State authority is the action holder. The Party points out that the third option also needs to be thoroughly addressed: the removal option through the combined dive/subsea solution. We believe it became clear at the last hearing on 16 April that this is an independent and alternative solution. It should be considered as carefully as the cancellation option. The removal of mercury is more important than the removal of the wreck. The progress party wants the matter back to Stortinget when it has been re-examined. The solution of the government parties to come back ‘in an appropriate manner’ is for upresis: the majority should and should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be returned to full consideration to ensure that the Workers’ Party and the Government’s ‘stupid operation’ become an action resulting in the removal of mercury. For information, we have not repeated our original proposal. The process of Document No. After all, the 8 proposal and the hearings have led to the cessation of coverage. It's a good start to a better solution. It remains to be ensured that this does not stand as political tactic from the Government. I also remind you that the Committee has still not received an answer to its last questions to the Council of State. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e255	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e261	The representative of Sortevik had a comprehensive description of the negative consequences of mercury and mercury poisoning. Then I must point out that it has always been the Government's goal to do what was possible to prevent a major environmental disaster due to the mercury lying there. It was a collective government that was behind it. I note that the Progress Party will now tell the Government that the Coastal Agency is not capable of doing this, and they will also move the settlement to another department. Then I have to ask Sortevik: is it the Storting or is it the Government that is going to rule here in the country? Otherwise, I have to say that it is unlikely that the Progress Party knew so much better early on than the Coastal Agency and the national and international professional bodies they had used. I have to ask the next question: what kind of professional is the representative of Sortevik in this area? The progressing party says in the setting that they have been too uplifting all the time, as they point to hearings and the new ones that have emerged. But it doesn't have any significance for the Progress Party, because they had already initially decided to raise something if something went wrong during the raising? [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e270	The Progress Party believes – and has long believed – that the best solution is to remove mercury. The reference to the event in Japan, which is internationally known, shows just the great, negative effects that may occur when mercury remains long in the sea. We have seen that when the Coastal Works are re-arranged from and actually repeated their distance to hearings conducted by the Storting Transport Committee, we have little confidence that there will be a new, thorough and balanced investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e277	I am registering a well-trained country meeting with the Progress Party. I also register that one should train to sit in government. I would like to believe that Sortevik, if he ever became a member of the government, will have problems if Stortinget had such a level of instruction as Blackevik here puts himself on. - But don't worry about it. Then I will also warn against using Minamata-saka as an example, because – and this knows Sortevik – Professor Delete in his report refutes this as a problem for this particular submarine. But to answer these questions, I have two questions: now the revised national budget is being presented. The government spends 20 million. kr more to get rid of this. Is the Progress Party and Sortevik content with that? So something more surprising: USA uses uranium-animated ammunition in Iraq, which leads to cancer [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e286	I think we're going to stick to the issue, and it's an international environmental scandal in Norway's own backyard linked to our reputation as an international fishing nation. That is what is the starting point of the Progress Party. As regards claims and comments on big business, it is true that the founding of the Minister of Fisheries – who has taken a good step and made sure that there is a turnaround by the Government, a turnaround in relation to that country’s Prime Minister himself proclaimed a month before the Minister of Fisheries, who has also in the meantime become the Vice-Chairman of the same party, intervened and carried out – is precisely the reference to the fact that one is now investigating more. That's what happened to the Storting. – So, above all, this is a good example of the fact that initiative by the Stortinget, from parties on the Stortinget, from representatives on the Stortinget, in important matters can lead to something good and is a good instrument that should and should be used. In this case, the government is turning around, and we hope that the final solution will be to remove the mercury.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e293	I registered that the representative Sortevik did not answer my previous question. The Government will now review the cancellation option and the options. Basically, we've always had the mistake of doing what's right for the environment. If the conclusion then shows that there is still too risky with an uplift, will the Progress Party nevertheless support an uplift, towards what is the professional conclusion in this area? Will the Progress Party and Sortevik take responsibility if something happens with the spreading of mercury during the upliftment? The other is mentioned by the Coastal Agency. I myself was involved in this hearing. What the Coastal Agency did was that they explained and based their conclusion and stood so clearly on it. My starting point is that I would doubt very much at the Coastal Works if they had begun to draw their own conclusions in doubt. Then I would have wondered what the Coastal Works were doing, and what kind of professional work they had done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e300	In fact, in the hearing, I expected the Coastal Administration to have a somewhat more open and respectful view of the views of other trade unions. It was precisely the views of other trade unions that emerged from the two hearings of the Transport Committee. I had actually expected that the Coastal Works Director would have been more liberal and transparent in that other professionals with high international competence actually have a different view than the Coastal Works have concluded. With regard to the method of cancellation and the risk associated with it, I have to repeat that we want first of all to investigate the third option. There are three solutions. Luckily, we've gone away from cover. The lifting of the submarine and the removal of mercury on board thereof is one solution. That is what the government has now clearly said that they will assess. But the third option we want to investigate. It's removing the mercury bottles lying there. The submarine missile is far uninteresting. That's the mercury we have to get away. [[The President clubs.]] Let me add that Norsk Veritas has a more conditional risk...
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e309	Time's up! The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e314	We can start by thanking the case spokesman for the work on a matter that became interesting after all, with some political tension in it. The case shows that the Stortinget is also an interesting workplace not only for the government party, but also for the opposition. Perhaps the Right People who are here can pass it on to former Secretary of State Jan Petersen, who thought it was too little to do here! So to the point. It's the way the government trades. She is presenting the revised budget today. That's 20 million. DKK for the further settlement of this matter, which one has already spent millions of dollars in making up its mind. I believe that an aggregate accumulation is very much satisfied with today, and that when any new conclusions are reached, at least clear distribution options, the Storting will be satisfied with it. I can't let go of those who once had political power in Norway, that is, the Progress Party itself and the Bondevik II government. They have also had this matter lying down. They could have speeded up, they could have wagered more, and spent more money on distribution. It records us that the cork Left, Right, Christian People's Party or the Progress Party contributed to it. But now I'm assuming that these, which are now opposition parties, are quite happy that the government is actually spending more money on this arrangement. It's a good night's work! Hordaland SV has been concerned about this matter for a long time and has repeatedly taken it up with us in the SV and in the Storing Group, because one has wanted to get the options out further. The starting point is, of course, that no one wants a submarine with mercury lying in the neighborhood. All of them have the starting point that they want to remove. One wants to get rid of the problem, so that one knows that one has a safe environment in its neighborhood. I think that's the starting point of most people. But then, as SV's national meeting concluded, one has to figure out the security of this. Even if I think that it would be best for a submarine to be lifted – also SV believes it – then one must look at the results before a conclusion is reached as to whether this is dangerous. Of course, I don't want to be in an operation where a gamer with security can make a problem worse rather than solve it. It seems to me that I must be the approach of all the parties on the Storting, that one does what is most defensive and that is best for the environment. At least that's my starting point. So it's clear that what's come out in the two hearings we've had, it's important to keep in mind. Questions that will be related to Norway as an environmental nation, Norway as a fishing nation, can be very serious if we do not do this the right way. It can be done, among other things. have enormous economic consequences, but of course also environmental consequences. That's why what the government is doing, the only sensible thing to do, is to use more resources to sort this out, so that you can choose the best solution and the safest solution for the environment. It's a little premature already to have concluded what kind of solution is the best, before this distribution to 20 million. kr will be provided. With this input, I conclude that the Government has now done something very reasonable, by using more money to sort this out, and that one will come back to the Storting with the conclusion that such a settlement would have to be made. I am absolutely sure that at least the majority of the stakes on the Stortinget will be discussed what the consequences of the distribution will be in relation to the conclusion that will be drawn when it comes to the matter itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e336	First of all, I have to say that the matter has been driven by governments and departments, but that it was only when the Progress Party came up with its proposal for a representative that the matter came to Stortinget. I'm glad. Then I think it is new that SV does not conclude in an environmental matter, because we are well-known that SV almost always concludes early and is very clear about what you want in environmental matters. I also think it's a little special that a party like SV – which is trying to make itself a big environmental party, and which is dedicated to solving the major problems associated with climate and other environmental challenges in the world – is completely different and much more defensive in terms of problems in our own backyard than we're used to looking at completely different things. My questions to the representative Langeland are: Does SV want a cancellation, or will you still allow the poison to lie at the bottom of it, so that future generations might have to deal with the problem? And: Does SV think that this matter should be in another department – perhaps the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which also has an Swedish State Council – in order to gain more objectivity? We recorded how the coastal director was at the hearing in relation to not wanting this solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e347	When environmental criticism comes from the Progress Party, a listener should be careful, because if there is something the Progress Party is not known for, it is to have an offensive environmental policy. But in this case, a job has been done – I should say. But I should have liked the Progress Party now, not least as the situation is most common among people, to have a commitment to both climate and environmental policy. But I'm sure it'll come if the gallupons for the climate are good in the future, too. I found it irresponsible when the Progress Party concludes that an absolute lifting of this submarine, regardless of what experts and international expertise say. It's very dangerous for Norway as an environmental nation to risk accidents with mercury etc. I don't think that's responsible. That's why I'm saying now I'm using 20 million. kr to, and then we're going to cancel this out. I want a cancellation, but I dare not conclude until I have been informed that this is safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e355	The representative of Langeland would like to visit the former governments. I think maybe it's time, after two years, to start steering on my own. He accuses the previous government of not having speeded up. I just thought what we were into here today was to relax a little at the pace, to make proper assessments. But the SV is in good shape when they say that they believe that raising is the best. The Norwegian Veritas say, ‘The only measure with a low risk in the long term is raising. Coverage, on the other hand, has a high long-term risk.» That's what they say. What I want to ask the representative of Langeland is the minority’s wording on the role of SFTs – State pollution control – in the matter. Here's a proposal that SV won't be on. Does SV and Langeland consider that the proposal to clarify the role of the SFT is not essential in a case like this? And: does SV mean that there is therefore no reason to clarify this either?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e369	One of the reasons SV wants to do this is because the relationship with the SFT is not clear. That we do not enter this into the comment made by the case-speaker is because we expect that the government, at the State Council of Helga Pedersen and the State Council of Helen Bjørnøy, will itself go further into the problem raised by the case-speaker. So I've answered that. The fact that I'm constantly ripping up in the reigns of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party in this case, too, is because I've missed one from the previous government's side spending more money and resources on distributions. That's what I want. My conclusion must be that as long as the representative Halleraker and Right feel attacked, it must be because he and the party are not proud of what they did when they were in position. I'm trying to sit in the position to be proud of what I and my party do, and I'd rather be doing for four new years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e376	I am recording that the representative Langeland is very concerned about the story, but he is dealing with a bit of a wrong history description. The party of progress has not yet been in any government, as was said from the pulpit. I register that Hallgeir Langeland also says that SV primarily wants to cancel. Then I think it is a little strange that SV would not clearly agree to find a third alternative, because that is much more interesting to the Progress Party, as the matter stands now. The wreck may be totally uninteresting. The important thing is to get the mercury up. Then I register that the representative Langeland again criticises the Progress Party for not having taken up the matter earlier. We just can't take over all the stuff all the time! My question to SV is: When Hordaland has been so strongly involved in this matter, why has SV never raised the matter, in position or in opposition? It is the case that this case has the department, not the Stortinget, worked with, but the Progress Party has at least raised the case [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e387	Let me give the representative Sandberg the right to say that the Progress Party has not been in government, but they have participated in the adoption of three state budgets and have thus been responsible for both the petrol and tobacco taxes and to get something done with the submarine outside of Fedje, possibly for spending money on payment. The main point of drawing this up is that the Progress Party is a little too good at releasing itself from responsibility instead of actually admitting that they are responsible for a part of what is happening – and has happened – in Norway. Now I understand that it might have to change, and that the representative Sandberg, as the next leader of the party, will also profile what the Progress Party did while they were «put in government». When it comes to raising, my answer is that I think one, same place you are in Hordaland, will want a raise. Everyone in the neighborhood wants it. So do I. I'm not hiding that. But as I've said to previous replicants, I can't take the chance to conclude on this right now, until the government's statement is complete. It would be irresponsible for me to go for a solution that we don't know is safe. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e396	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has withdrawn the original decision not to lift the submarine outside of Fedje. We believe it is very important that new assessments be carried out before a final decision is taken. There has been an enormous interest in this matter locally. The debate has been heard between different professional bodies and different interest groups. In two hearings, we've recorded a total of 23 instances. The advice that has been given is very disconcerting. I have also noticed that no one is speaking with a sloping safety. It only underlines the complexity of this matter. Significant uncertainties have been associated with both options. The consideration of possible environmental damage must always be controlling, whether you choose to cover the submarine or you choose to raise it. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports that the cancellation proposals that have come up after the Government's first decision will have the same thorough assessment as the alternatives that have already been investigated. We also believe that the Government will now take good time and then come back to Stortinget with the matter when the necessary reassessments have been carried out properly. This case is extremely difficult. There is so much at stake, and it is so important for the environment to make the right decision. It is a long story that lies behind the matter that we have to deal with today. Although we've known about the wreck of the German submarine for just four years, it has actually been lying there today, for over 60 years. The findings of pilot studies carried out in the autumn of 2005 confirmed that the submarine was loaded with mercury. Mercury is one of the most dangerous pollutants in existence and poses a threat to the environment and to humans. This submarine wreck poses a huge threat to the marine environment. Many are concerned that the situation here can help to weaken the international reputation of Norwegian seafood products as clean and safe food. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that, at the end of the day, no questions should be asked in the ministry's handling of the matter, all the time already recommended for the submarine to be covered in advance. Therefore, it is now extremely important that all bodies that have notified their interest in the matter should be provided with their solution proposals before drawing the final conclusion. Finally, the consideration of possible environmental damage must be crucial to the conclusion reached. There is a broad consensus that we need to do everything we can to minimize any damage that mercury can cause. We expect the government to come back with solutions that support the trade unions and that the Stortinget can gather around. Finally, I support proposal No. 7 from Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e418	The representative of Sahl has made a lot of sense about this matter, including: through a series of listings in the Official Journal of Bergen. At the same time, we know that the representative Sahl, in the same way as we in the government party, is very busy with the reputation of Norway as a fishing nation and a maritime nation. Does the representative of Sahl agree with me that this partly significant turbulence that the opposition party has created in the media about mercury loads can in itself be detrimental to the reputation of Norwegian marine food?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e423	The media attention on this issue was primarily aroused by concerns in the local environment and concerns among local politicians. There has been an enormous pressure against Stortinget to get a further investigation of a case where one felt that the Government concluded that many characterised as a failing basis. Then we've had two hearings on the matter. We've heard 23 instances. What has been my concern in – I would say – the few media reviews I have had in this case after contacting from the Official Journal of Bergen, has been to ensure that we now get a wide consultation. The Christian People's Party has no tradition of running government, of ruling governments, even though we've met a little bit of each of them in previous contexts. Because of the stability question in this case, my commitment has been to the thoroughness of the job that is now to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e430	I could imagine asking the representative Jan Sahl why he and the opposition use the words that the government has turned around. Have you predicted the outcome of this case? I think it is important to clarify that there is a difference between turning some stones and seeing the need to look at the matter again, and that you have turned around in this matter. So I don't know if the representative Jan Sahl can elaborate on it a little bit, because that might be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e437	To the representative Tor-Arne Stroem I would say that he himself used the words and replied confirming that the government was willing to turn some stones into this matter. The case is that the government would have decided this on its own table, and the government could have done so, but that, after pressure from the Storting and pressure from its own representatives, one has chosen to go a new round, and the Christian People's Party thinks it is affordable. The Christian People's Party's commitment further is that the job that the Government is now going to do must be done on a broad basis as possible, so that, when we get the matter back to Stortinget again, we may get a total staggering behind a broad and good solution that can both calm down people living near where the submarine is lying, and create peace around Norwegian seafood for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e442	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e446	The thing we're discussing now is not a matter on which there are simple solutions. The wreck of the submarine lies on the bottom of the sea, as a reminder of a tragic epoch of our history. After many years of peace in the country, however, it is so that the remnants of the war can pose a threat to life and health. The fear many know about the submarine now, is tied to the mercury lying there on the bottom of the ocean. The wreck can't be located there without us doing anything, and then the question is what to do. In connection with this, I will give tribute to both the department and the opposition. The ministry has shown the ability to go through the case thoroughly and initially made a decision to cover the submarine, built on good professional advice. In retrospect, there have been new moments, and then it can fit a quote from the famous economist John Maynard Keynes, who said, "When the facts change, I change my mind." The department wants to look at the matter again and evaluate all the new information, so that the solution that is finally chosen should be the best. In connection with this, I will, as I said, also give honor to the opposition, because they have been active in order to clarify the matter more. For me, this case is a good example of the hearing institution operating properly. The two hearings we've opened up on the subject have given us more knowledge, not just about the practical and technical aspects. Not least, we've also seen a great deal of local involvement. The latter is an important reason why I am happy that the department has decided to take better time and look at the cases again. It is particularly important that the decision that is drawn, regardless of whether there is coverage or raising, becomes a solution that is most likely to be safe. That said, we also know that the experts disagree on what is the best solution. Fasit response does not exist, just because unexpected things can happen. In this way, the after clock is the most precise science, but he can't sit and wait. It's about our fishing resources, security of life and health both for us today, and for future generations. I'm sure the ministry will do its best to make the best possible result.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e457	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e460	The centre party has been attentively clear and – I would say – ongoing in this matter. The central party had its national meeting on Lillehammer March 18th, and there they made a decision that I stand by here. That is short and straightforward: the Environment Party of the Centre will lift the submarine wreck. Nothing less! My question to the representative of Klinge is: does the Central Party know more than the other parties in the Government? And will the Central Party stand firm at its country meeting decision also in the continuation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e467	Now I never thought it was ‘synthetic’ that the centre party is clear and clear, because we're pretty much all the time. But when it comes to this matter, it's right that we're eager to evaluate the option of raising. What I'm thinking from the award-winning national meeting was not that we were as hot as what the quote said, but that what we were clear about was that both options should be evaluated, so that the solution being chosen is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e472	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e475	The submarine wreck outside of Fedje, with large quantities of mercury, is a significant environmental risk. It has been well explained in the debate today and in the process that has been in both the house here and elsewhere before the matter has come as far as it has done today. It is also well explained that the Government's decision to cover the wreck was made on a lack of basis. The left believes that raising the submarine missile is the best solution in a long-term perspective, and shows in this respect, among other things. to the opinion of Veritas. The submarine wreck represents an environmental risk, and it is also a reputational risk in relation to Norwegian fishing resources. This is also about our credibility internationally in dealing with environmental challenges. I have been working on the Sellafield case for a long time, and that work must continue, related to the plans to restart the THORP plant at Sellafield. It would be to weaken our international work in this area, if we hesitate nationally to choose the good solutions when we meet a challenge like the one we've done with the submarine missile in Fedje. It is also quite clear that the precautionary principle must be based on such matters as this and that one must make good decisions in a very long-term perspective. I assume that the cancellation proposal will now be dealt with in depth. But I want to show that the Coastal Works was very boisterous in their recommendation that covering was ready to be preferred. The working Minister for Fisheries and the Coast was the same, and I also noticed that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg at the County Council meeting in Hordaland Workers' Party was crystal clear that the submarine wreck was to be covered, and that it was not about to reverse that decision. It's positive on this background that the government turned around. But I have no faith that there are internal forces in the Government that triggered such a change, and show in this regard to the Prime Minister's bona fide statement. I assume that this review one should have, not become a ritual act to govern the choice of the harvest, but a real review where one is open to a different conclusion than the Government has previously had. It was amazing to follow the consultation in Stortingen on this matter and the Coastal Authority's sloping safety and rejections and objections raised during the hearing. In this context, I believe that there may be good reasons why other bodies have a leading role to play in the work to be done. What has been uplifting about this debate is that debate is working, that it is actually possible to change perceptions as long as the work is systematic and the pressure is large enough. I think it is alarming that one here from the working party team is almost accused of having made media attention around this. Without that attention, one would not have turned around in this case, and without that attention, this submarine case would have been unsolved, with the reputational risk it represents internationally. I want to praise the local actionists who have been the drivers of this case, who are going to have their share of the honor because we have come a bit towards a good solution. This is a very inspiring matter for us in the opposition in relation to the environment, not least when we also look at the climate issue, where the Prime Minister comes to a different position from what he was previously clear that he wanted. And it's positive, as has been mentioned here, that the consultation rounds in the Storting have real meaning. They have had a ritual character related to the budgetary procedure, where even small amounts of money that are well-founded were not included because the government parties had decided. Here it went differently. In this way, this case of the submarine wreck, which is a serious environmental challenge, has nevertheless become positive, because it can give a different result from what the Government said it wanted, and because it shows that it is useful to fight politically when you have a good case, both locally and centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e502	I think it is alarming to hear the representative's bona fide approach, that this decision has been taken on a lack of basis. I would like to inform the representative of Kvassheim that there has been both national and international competence within the picture. Both the defense, the NIVA, the Veritas and the SMIT Salvage have been involved when the Coast Guard has made its decisions. So now there's another professional community that's been throwing itself at here, and the department has said that their assessments are also to be taken into account. But I'd like to ask, isn't it just the precautionary principle that we should base here? Rebounding of the wreck will be, among other things: developed by NIVA as a major risk for the re-suspension of bottom sediments and the spread of mercury. These are damage that will be completely irreparable, and it will be impossible to restore the reputation of Norwegian seafood. With coverage, we can carry out annual checks and ensure that reports are given to interested parties confirming that Norwegian seafood in the area is safe. Isn't that exactly what's tricked?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e509	This line makes me worried. For what the Labour Party representative does is to have a strong defence for the cover-up solution and problematize – with well-known arguments – lifting. What I fear will be the starting point for the new review to be carried out is that it will be a ritual to buy time in a stormy terrain. As regards my claim that the Government's decision had been taken on a too weak a basis, the setting states. It turns out that there are a number of instances and a number of recordings that belong to this picture – which now led one to take a new position – that should have been clarified much earlier and in place when the government made its decision. With reference to Veritas’ recommendation and what is a good solution in a long-term perspective, it is considered that raising is the preferred option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e518	When the representative of Kvassheim says that he is disturbed by the line to Truls Wickholm, I must say that I am troubled by what Kvassheim says. He owes others for being a bastard, but it seems like the Left and the representative of Kvassheim have decided anyway. He also started by saying that they were too uplifting. And then he feared that it would not be real review and distribution. The only thing that can then be feared is that no matter how real and good the distribution would be, as the Government does and presents to the Stortinget, the Left and the representative Kvassheim will go for raising. It has to be what's irresponsible in this context. Let us say that we all have a common goal of making the best and safest grips on the environment, both in the short and, of course, in the long term, with regard to the Norwegian food reputation. That's what must be the starting point for the Government. That is why many of our alternatives have been evaluated. There have been used national and international professional bodies, which have concluded as they have. Then it'll be alarming if the government didn't join it as well. And when one now opens up for another round, I hope everyone can meet it with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e526	One of the reasons I welcome the review to be carried out now is that there are different options for lifting the submarine missile. There are also options involved with the removal of mercury. I welcome a review of the options. But what we're clear about with backgrounds in the recordings that came, among other things. from Veritas, it is not a good enough solution to cover the submarine wreck, because in the long term it represents a risk, and we want the uncertainty attached to this matter. It doesn't want the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e531	The Official Journal of Bergen, 24 April, reads as follows: ‘That is why there is definite reason to put the work ahead of the Coast works,’ says the Tende representing Akershus on the Stortinget.’ Does the representative Kvassheim share this distrust of the Coastal Agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e541	I explained that in my post, that I believe that the handling of the Coastal Works and the bastful approach to this matter indicate that others are sitting in the driver's seat when one is going to continue working on this. But the organization of it we have left to the Government. However, our advice is that a teacher of the process that has been and corrects it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e546	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e549	The danger of a major mercury contamination from the wreckage of U-864 makes this case too serious for us to allow ourselves to take chances. There has always been the opinion of the authorities regarding the submarine outside of Fedje. That was also why, based on the knowledge we had this winter, we could not take the chance of raising the wreck with cargo. The risk that something could go wrong during the cancellation operation itself was considered too high. We would not risk gambling with people's lives and health during the implementation itself or any further uncontrolled spread of mercury to areas that are today clean. Only touching the fragile parts of the wreck – well sunk in contaminated bottom masses and 140 metres deep – was assessed by a number of technical experts as highly risky. In principle, there are two main methods of preventing further contamination from the wreck and the contaminated seabed. One is the removal of mercury and contaminated sediments. The other is dealing with the wreck on site by isolating the mercury so that it can no longer pollute the marine environment. If there had been no risk associated with lifting and removal, the choice would have been simple – then of course we would have done so. But the world is not that simple. Both the experience gained from the work of the contaminated seabed during the pilot studies in 2005 and 2006, the risk assessment carried out by the Norske Veritas and the Norwegian Institute for Water Research, so that no more should be touched by the wreck or contaminated seabed than is most necessary, but rather isolate the pollution where it is located, with a cover of clean masses. However, for the representatives of the Progress Party, the matter seems to be very simple – in fact so simple that the party could conclude already in the spring of 2006, before the investigations of the wreck and the seabed on late summer and autumn 2006 were carried out. These were studies that the Swedish Coastal Authority considered to be absolutely necessary in order to give a technical recommendation on measures, but already in the Innst. S. No 155 for 2005-2006 on the allocation of funds for these studies had concluded the Progress Party. The party then asked the Government to submit a plan for the removal of mercury and contaminated sediments from the area ‘as soon as the studies are completed’. The results of the studies and risk assessments should therefore not be taken into account. I think this is going to be a far too easy approach in such a serious matter. For me, it is essential that thorough professional and technical assessments be carried out before conclusions are drawn. This is also the approach we would like to take in the broader assessment of the lifting option that we are now going to implement. Some, including here in the Chamber, use the opportunity to present the case as a turnaround by the Government or that there are tactical considerations behind the decision on a broader assessment of the cancellation option. That's not right. What has happened is that new relevant information has emerged in the case. I take that seriously, and the government will have this matter as well informed as possible. There is one motivation for that decision, and it is to be absolutely certain that it is the best option for the environment to be chosen, that is, the option that leads to the lowest risk for both humans and the environment. That is why I welcome the fact that several actors have committed themselves and made representations about how they believe that the wreck can be lifted. Of course, the coastal area has the same objective, namely to find the option that is overall the best for the environment. The Coastal Agency is the Department of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry of Acute Pollution. It is therefore natural that it is the Coastal Agency that is leading the further work to investigate the cancellation option. I believe that the Coastal Plant as a trade union has done a thorough job as a basis for its first recommendation, based on the information and knowledge available at the time the report was written. It has also cooperated with and drawn on the knowledge of a number of independent trade unions. They're going to keep doing that. Efforts to investigate the option of cancellation are a high priority. It is important for me and for the Government that all proposals for lifting methods now come on the table. These proposals will have the same thorough assessment as the alternatives already identified. In addition, independent professional expertise shall be used to assess and compare the risks of the methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e570	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e573	The Council of State will answer the questions per year. Today, unanswered, sent by the Committee, questions 19 and 20? Question no. 2: Can the Council of State repeat the confirmation that, when further consideration is given to the option of cancellation, the information received during consultation in the Grand Duchy? How would this information have come if no initiative had been taken by the Storting and no consultation had been carried out – because where did the information come from? So finally, does the Council of State see that removal is an alternative to lifting, and that there are therefore three alternatives? Will the Council of State insist that it is only the increase to be considered more thoroughly, or will the Council of State at any rate here in the Grand Duchy today confirm that a broad perspective is also to be found, including the third independent option, the removal of mercury, which was confirmed as a method at the hearing on 16 April?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e582	The reasons for the Government to carry out a further assessment of the lifting option are that there are several actors involved in the consultation in Stortinget. Several of those actors were also invited to make their recordings while the Coast Guard made its previous investigation. They then chose not to make their proposals, but those proposals will now be considered. As far as the proposal on removal is concerned, it is something our professional expertise until now has rejected as a possible solution. We also need to look at that option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e589	I have previously given the Council of State recognition for the decision she has made, and would like to repeat that face to face. However, at the hearing on 16 April, the Swedish Coastal Agency confirmed that there was no reputational risk in relation to the world market situation of the fishing or farming industry in this case. I am not surprised that the Coastal Works had not responded to this, but they also stated that this is a matter for the department that was outside their remit. However, fishing interests are definitely within the remit of this Council of State. Will the Council of State ensure that reputational risk is investigated and is involved in the decision-making basis on which she is now working?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e596	It is quite obvious that when we have a submarine wreck with mercury lying on the seabed, it poses a reputational risk for Norwegian seafood. That's why I don't think there's any point in spending money on figuring it out. Norwegian seafood depends on the fact that we have order in the fish business in terms of the marine environment. That is why the Government has granted money for this, including the following: in the current year’s budget, and therefore the Government also wishes to deal with this submarine case in the way that is most environmentally sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e601	Also the Christian People's Party will give commendation to the state council Pedersen for the opportunity that is now given to a new review of the matter. The Christian People's Party, of course, also accepts that the Government should use the investigative bodies that they themselves consider to be right to use – in this case it is concluded with the Coastal Agency. But does the Council of State see, as the Christian People's Party has also pointed out in its statement here, that there may be some problems of stability and that we can have a new debate about this, when it was initially such a blatant conclusion as it was, about lifting? It cannot simply be for the Coastal Agency to draw its new conclusions and not expect it to be debated. And then another question. It has been claimed by the representatives of the government parties, inter alia: in reply to me, that it is to the detriment of the country's interests that we have had a media debate on this matter. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e609	With regard to the role of the Coastal Works in this matter, I have full confidence in the work done by the Coastal Works. The background for a new round of work to be carried out is that we have not mistrusted the way the Coast Guard has handled the matter. The background for a new round is that new information has emerged. It's important for the Government that we use the profession that has competence in this field. That competence lies in the Coastal Works and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. It would not be appropriate to transfer this matter to an agency which does not have competence in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e614	Interestingly, the Prime Minister'sbastant concluded in winter that the submarine was to be covered. Other solutions were out-of-date. The Council of State now informs that during the consultation in Stortinget, information was provided that the Prime Minister’s bastant attitude had to be adjusted. Then it has to be that lifting the case into the Storting and having attention to the matter in the media has brought new actors, new information. On that basis, I'm going to repeat the question that Jan Sahl had: does the Council of State consider the attention of the newspaper about this matter as a problem? Is it also a problem that the local people have said clearly that the opposition has been engaged? Or is it that the commitment, the pressure, adjusted the price at which the Prime Minister was absolutely blatant, and that media attention has not been the problem, but the prerequisite for a new solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e621	The government has had a position in this matter based on the best available advice we had. Then there has been new information in the case that has made us decide that we will take a new round to consider the cancellation option. The government's position will then finally be decided after we have the new assessments in place. I have no problem that there is a debate around U-864 and the handling of it, but I would especially warn the Advance Party against trying to knock political coins on this case and conclude that raising is the best option, before going rounds with the professional assessments and the professional advice we have to borrow the final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e630	I record that the Council of State is very concerned about the Progress Party in a reply reply to a representative from another party. But first, the Council of State did not answer the question from the representative of Sortevik – do we get answers to the questions sent by the Committee that have still not been answered? And so, the government has decided that the Coastal Plant should be responsible for assessing the option of re-elevating the submarine. During the consultation within the Committee, the coastal director stated that the authorities involved in raising the submarine were engaged in qualified vision. With such statements by the Coastal Administration, does not the Council of State see that there will be problems, that there might be doubts about the objectivity of the investigation, when these are the ones who should be responsible for assessing an alternative they clearly do not want? And doesn't the Council of State see that it would be natural that perhaps another department was given the responsibility to ensure that those who are going to evaluate all the options do so on an objective basis? I registered that a letter has also been sent to the Ministry of Justice, which is not public. It might have been interesting to know if there should be another department to assess the matter. But we haven't got a hold of that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e641	It is the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs that deals with this matter in the Government, and the Coastal Agency is the department responsible for the further investigations in this area. The role of the coastal facility is also to go to the expertise they think it is natural to ask, and to seek advice, to distinguish between the advice coming from different teams — to separate the clint from the wheat — and to make a final assessment and recommendation to the Government. I have full confidence that the Coastal Works will do that job in a proper way also in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e646	Then the cord shift is over. The speakers who take the floor below shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e651	So the government decided to dig. The proposers would deal with this matter in Stortinget immediately. A possible rapid decision to lift – if that was the objective – we think we would be directly irresponsible, all the time the Coastal Plant with all the national and international professional bodies to which they have supported it has concluded that it would be too risky in view of the spread of mercury. In that case, a decision on the possible lifting or other removal of mercury must also be based on a thorough professional assessment, particularly of neutral professional competence. Entrepreneurs who sketch solutions do not necessarily need to be what I call professionally neutral – without me being able to benefit from or oppose their proposals. I do not have the competence to do that, and I do not believe that others in this room have the professional competence to point out the right solution here. The Ministry and the Government have had one goal. It's doing what's safest to prevent a major environmental disaster because the submarine contains mercury and TNT. It would be a belief that everyone had respect for. When, after very thorough work, the Coast Guard concluded that the best thing to do was cover him up, yes, in my view it would at least be alarming if the Government had gone for something else. When many people have later said that the Coastal Works conclusion is wrong, that it would be possible to lift the boat safely, yes, I am glad that the Government will go through the cancellation option again. I fully understand that it will be best to get rid of the whole thing, and thus get rid of all the fear that mercury will pollute the environment once in a while. But I expect those who from the beginning have been so sure that raising is possible, will stand up and take responsibility for not spreading the mercury by raising. After all, one talks about Norwegian coastal areas with Norwegian weather conditions. In the setting, there is criticism from the opposition that no emphasis has been placed on the reputation of Norwegian food – it has also been mentioned here – and one responds to the fact that it has not been part of the decision base. As I said, the goal is always to do what is environmentally safe and best, and of course it will also be best for Norwegian food reputation. What kind of reputation would there be if something went wrong during the upliftment, so that the mercury got spread? The husband of a big business must look for a long time when the opposition is now pointing to the individual company to be invited and individual solutions to be evaluated in particular – a suggestion that it is done. I see, of course, that when the department now enters and conducts a thorough assessment, all options will be assessed, and that the department itself is able to do so in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e666	It is a difficult matter we have to deal with here today. The whole thing is difficult. What is important is that there is no prestige in the matter in any way. Based on today's debate, I'm afraid it's getting closer to a prestige case for parts of the opposition. Here we talk about technical questions. We're talking about questions of which there's a professional disagreement. What we all agree on is that we want an environmentally good solution to the matter. When we have so many technical points in the case, and there's such a professional disagreement about it, this case is little suitable to score political points on, or to draw political conclusions on, at the stage we're now. When the representative Sortevik calls this an environmental scandal – and nothing less than an international environmental scandal – I think he is anticipating the course of events. There is no environmental scandal that there is a submarine on the bottom outside of Fedje. What will be an environmental scandal is whether it goes wrong when it comes to dealing with it. As the matter stands, raising the wreck is associated with a great risk. We know that. Covering the wreck is also associated with a long-term risk. We know that, too. Here are some assessments of what's the best solution, because we're all concerned with finding the best environmental solution, a safe solution. What we do has to be safe. It's also that what we're doing has to be perceived as safe. This has been the big issue for the people of Fedje and Hordaland, that you have to make sure that what you do is safe. As the case developed, and as the involvement of the local population in Fedje also mobilised views other than those expressed in the study conducted by the Coastal Administration, it turned out that there was reason to ask whether the cancellation option was well enough investigated. Then I think it is very reassuring that we have a process both in Stortinget, in the contact between Stortinget and the Government and in the contact between the local people at Fedje and the Government, which means that the Government has no record of this, but says yes, we will assess this further. I do not recognize the description of the Government as ‘bastant’ in this case. On the contrary, I also believe that the local people in Fedje will be with me to say that there has been very good contact, and that they have listened well to voices other than the Coastal Administration in this matter. We're also going to keep going, because this is a government that listens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e682	The government has listened, both to the public reaction and to the fisheries organisations, but the announcement came when the Prime Minister visited the annual meeting in the Hordaland Labour Party – and it was very clear about what had been listened to in many rounds before: the urgency of starting coverage. This is what is the scandal, both nationally and internationally, about a solution of cover – contrary to the input and calls that came, among other things. from the public reaction and from fisheries organisations. This was observed with increasing wonder also by international media and international organisations. The political point in this case is that, at the initiative of the Stortinget, the coverage is now stopped in 2007. What we can at least note with satisfaction is that the time window in this case is such that nothing happens in 2007. Something happens at the earliest in 2008. We still hope that it will be removed. That's our solution. It's been the whole time. I note, if I correctly interpret the answer given in the reply here, that the Council of State has now turned for the second time. First she stopped covering, now she also opens up to seriously consider the removal option. I sincerely hope, on behalf of the Advancement Party, that the Council of State will ensure that removal is assessed as the independent option it is and is pointed out from very competent teams, among others. during hearings in Stortinget. But it is the political initiative that has come through the proposal of representatives of the Progress Party – and not least the consultation that the proposal has caused in the Stortinget – that makes us there today. A new approach to coverage has also been adopted through the consultation at Stortinget. These are aspects of cover that are not good. The council said this matter is too serious to take a chance. Yeah, we don't want to take chances. We rely on the risk assessment that is currently on the table, that of the Norwegian Veritas. The long-term environmental risk has been assessed as highest in coverage. New information on cancellation has been received. The solutions mentioned are partially wrongly referred to by both the Coastal Authority and the Department. It has also come to light during the hearing. Information on removal has also been provided — removal as an independent and active alternative. That is why I am particularly pleased that we have now reached the conclusion that the Council of State will also look at it. The removal is the most important thing, the mercury has to go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e691	The representative Rudihagen expressed that he was above the opposition's positions, especially to the Coastal State Department, and that we have questioned their conclusions. But we are not, in fact, alone about that. So the Council of State itself, the sitting government, is turning around on the bombastic decision and going for a spin. Once this case has been resolved, we will deal with one more matter where the Coastal Commission's recommendation was just as bombastic, namely the matter of moving the main protection pool. There too, this government has turned around – it must have all the credit for it. So to this with reputational risk. In my opinion, reputational risk is a strategic decision-making practice that is common in decision-making. I do not think you should dismiss it as something that really concerns the whole matter. It is quite common in strategic and important decision-making processes. This is not exactly what the representative Rudihagen also said, that we are trying to instruct the government in which individual companies are to be invited. Rather, on the contrary, it is the Government itself and the Coastal Agency that write in their reports that these companies were invited, but that they did not have the opportunity to come. And it is precisely the state council that has stated as the reason that these different cancellation options were deficiently investigated. That's why she wants to go another round. I have to say that there's going to be a way of being hairy. You have to figure out that the opposition also has opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e698	There's a couple of rhetorical points that are used here, which I'm reacting to. When talking about Veritas’ risk assessment, it is strongly emphasised that Veritas says that the cover option poses the highest risk in the long term. That's absolutely right. It has also been part of the assessments throughout. But what Veritas also says is that the lifting option gives the highest risk in the short term. If you don't bring both of them here, it just becomes a rhetorical point and nothing more when you're quoting the Veritas report. Since I'm probably the only one in this room who was present at the Hordaland Labour Party's national meeting and heard the Prime Minister's statements and what was actually said about the submarine situation on Fedje, I can again deny that there were some great conclusions that were drawn on this point. What was said by the Prime Minister is the same as has been said by the Council of State in the case, which has also been said by the Council of State – and the Government Appliances – namely that the professional basis so far as the cover option was most appropriate. It was said that time. In the Hordaland Labour Party we decided that we wanted a new round on this. I note that representatives Halleraker and Sortevik are happy to quote our decision in the Hordaland Labour Party on this point. I can also refer to a number of other good decisions that were taken at our annual meeting, which could be an inspiration for day-to-day political work, and encourage the representatives to read this. Then something has been said about the role of the Coastal Works in this matter. I certainly believe that it is the government that deals with this matter, and that it is the appropriate department that has the matter to deal with. But it is also regrettablely a point that the reputation of the Coastal Works in Hordaland is somewhat weakened because of the handling of other matters than the matter we have to deal with here. One is, like Halleraker's representative, the conclusion that the Coastal Plant had with regard to the oil warehousing pot. The second case concerned a relatively poor opinion on the ‘Server’ loss, and insofar as the management of the ‘Server’ loss was concerned. So there's Coastal Works a challenge in restoring trust. But I feel it would be irresponsible to use the cases as an argument against the Coastal Works handling this matter that we have here today. I think it has been raised beyond any doubt that the professional competence on these issues lies with the Coastal Administration. My trust in the Government is completely unaffected by some unfortunate statements made by the Coastal Agency in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e711	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e727	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e736	First, I would like to say that the Norwegian oil protection system is based on an efficient and comprehensive use of society's available resources and a good cooperation between private, municipal and state actors. There is great satisfaction with the Government’s decision to re-establish the main depot of oil protection equipment in Fedje, North Hordland. The shipwreck and accident MS ‘Server’ was a strong reminder of the importance of coastal preparedness and updated the question of the need for a main oil protection depot in this area. It was the Bondevik II government that in 2005 converted the main depot of Fedje into a middle depot and moved the main depot to Florø. The decision now being taken is of major importance and involves a substantial strengthening of oil protection in an area of high seas traffic. The re-establishment of the Fedje main depot means more and better oil protection equipment, and not least the restoration of a trained crew force capable of mobilising and operating the equipment, as at the other 15 main depots. We have also noticed that the government's professionally reasoned opinion that there is no immediate need for further changes in the depot structure, but that it is the equipment of the individual depot that is important now. There are also important signals when the Government says that the current actions will be prioritised in the light of the risk assessment and monitored through the forthcoming budgetary processes. There is also, as I said earlier, significant shipping in North Hordland, both in the form of tanker traffic to Mongstad and Sture, and in the form of local and ordinary coastal traffic. So finally, it's good that this government rates in terms of maritime safety and oil protection in the time to come, and assesses it so that it's most relevant in the first instance to upgrade the main depots and replace old equipment. It also appears that everyone is satisfied that there has been an arrangement on this matter. Seaway is highway No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e755	At first, I want to say that the Progress Party is very pleased that the government, after strong pressure, is now finally going in to reestablish the main depot on Fedje. However, I would like to point out that this only happens after the strong pressure, such as. The progress party has had in the matter, and that there had actually to be an accident before the government really got on the track and said that it now wants to restore the depot. The recovery following the ‘Server’ accident has so far resulted in expenditure of more than 200 million. kr. We are of the clear conviction that if the depot in Fedje had been there at the time of the accident, the damage and extent of oil spills on animals and nature would have been far less than the result. This debate is also in many ways a continuation of the inter-pelling debate we had here on Tuesday, May 8. The Progress Party is very pleased that oil protection is now really being put on the political agenda and that this is likely to contribute to the strengthening of oil protection in the future. However, I would like to point out that in 2006, the Council of State chose to keep a report from the Coastal Directorate where there was a review of the need for new acquisition and replacement of oil protection equipment. The report was published as known, but only after the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party sent a letter to the Prime Minister in February 2007. We believe it is very unfortunate when the Government tries to present itself as a government occupied by more publicity, whereas in practice it unfortunately refers to less publicity by exempting the document from public disclosure. The report made it clear that there are serious defects in the equipment we have in the depots and that there is a great need to purchase new equipment. In two years, there has been an increase of over 100 million. kr. There is information that the Council of State has obviously not wanted to inform us about, and that means that we have had a very serious situation in the sense that we have an oil protection preparedness that is both deficient and far from as it should be. This is in stark contrast to what the Council of State said in its article in the interpellation debate last week: ‘The refrigerator has recorded a need for approx. 260 million. spent over five years in order to maintain the oil protection system at an acceptable level. [[...]] So we still have time to follow the recommendations made by the Coastal Agency." It is not the case that the Kystsverk has made a recommendation saying that over five years, 260 million are needed. kr. No, they said that one must have replaced and invested in equipment for 52 million. NOK 2006, SEK 71 million. SEK 2007, 51 million. NOK 56 million in 2008. SEK in 2009 and 30 million. kr in 2010. When we then know that the Labour Party's Tore Nordtun in the debate boasted that the Government has granted 11 million. kr in 2006 and 2007, it shows that the government does not want to help us get a proper oil protection system along our coast. I should also like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of It should not be the case that oil conservation is not satisfactory in many places in the country. I would like to point to an area like this. Grenland, where many ships carry dangerous cargo each year, and where a foundation or other would have enormous consequences for wildlife and plant life along the coast. Another example is Frøya/Hitra in the South-Trundelag, where about. 50 pst. of all exports from the South-Trøndelag, most of which consist of resources from the sea, and where you are totally dependent on a marine diet and a fish to feed on. An oil accident in this area would be a disaster both for industry and for the settlement there. We would therefore point out that it is important to ensure good oil protection throughout the country, so that, when the accident is over, it does not have resources to ensure that the damage is minimised. I hope that last week's commitment and debate will help many of the parties to join the Progress Party's proposal, No. 2, which I have explained earlier in my article. I would like to mention proposal No. 1 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group Of course, we are pleased that we are now restoring a main depot for oil protection on Fedje.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e782	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e785	The Sture/Mongstad area has more than 3000 ship movements per year. There are more than 1000 tanker calls in these two locations. So there are formidable values and a formidable risk of pollution associated with this traffic. You don't talk about tankers in defined ship managers far off the coast – no, these are tankers that are going to go all the way into the rocks every time. Tor-Arne Stroem said that there is great satisfaction in restoring the main depot. That's what I'm going to do. This is a matter that the undersigned has worked with a lot and for a long time. However, I have to remind you that when Bondevik II went in to move the depot to Florø, it was after a professional recommendation from the Coast Guard. The reason was that there were so many private resources in the area that you could get the help you needed. We saw what happened to the server accident. Just the private resources in the area were not called up. Once again, we see that the Coastal Administration's recommendation was crazy. Therefore, it is also appropriate to note that it was in the time of the Bondevik II government that initiatives were taken to reconsider this decision — in a broader perspective. It is important that people along the coast feel secure that the high level of tanker traffic is as safe as possible and that, in the event of an accident, maximum preparedness is provided for clean-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e798	I found it very interesting to follow up on what Right says – also in this case. Not least we have refreshed the interference from Børge Burnde in memory. One has suddenly come on the offensive when it comes to oil preparedness, an offensive that is completely unparalleled in Norway’s history – and at least in the history of the Right. The husband of the right-hand person in this case shall search for a long time to find. In spring 2005, Halleraker and Børge Burnde – and others – decided to move the oil warehousing pot from Fedje. They decided to make oil protection much worse in an area with high tank traffic, local traffic and national boat traffic. With open eyes Halleraker and Børge Burnde participated in this spring 2005. So they're so rude that they say they're missing this issue in the 2006 budget. So in the budget that they wrote, and that we took from them, this government was going to have this deposit back in place. Six months after Halleraker and Børge Burnde joined in laying it down, the new government is expected to put it back in place. The policy is indisposed when a person behaves the way Right does in this matter. I don't know if it's conscious from Halleraker's side when he's on this trick game, but Børge Burnde is very clear that this is a profile that's useful to the Right. For my part, I just want to say that it is very useless for policy – in general – to behave as Right now does. It is a pleasure for SV to be able to repeat the arguments that one had when this matter was dealt with in spring 2005, when Bondevik II, with Børge Burnde at the head, dropped – and moved – this depot. All the arguments used today to restore the depot had SV in their comments when one dropped it. The fact that all the parties now seem to be some of the comments and the conclusions that SV had in spring 2005, I see as positive. The right and second parties should listen more to SV’s conclusions at an early stage, so that one can avoid making such whistles as one did in spring 2005. Today, the revised budget is presented. Today, it is clear that the government has 29 million rights. kr for this cause. So we're dealing with -- we're not saving money on this important depot, we're spending money on it. Then a question, as some parties do, about oil protection in general, as we discussed last time. My advice to the Government and my future is that of course we should increase our efforts more than we have done so far. I am very pleased that the government is now spending money on restoring the deposit in Fedje, which is what Kvassheim and Børge Burnde and Knut Arild Hareide from the previous government put down, despite the fact that the same arguments they use today to restore the deposit were used by SV and the other party in spring 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e815	The Christian People's Party supports the reestablishment of the main depot in Fedje and the strengthening of oil protection in this area. When MS «Server» appeared outside of Fedje in January this year, there was little indication that environmental damage could have been avoided as a result of the accident if Fedje had had a higher deposit status. The Christian People's Party claimed that there was a derailment in the debate to say that the main reason for the environmental damage was that they did not have a main depot. We're still holding on to that. There are other factors that have to explain why the accident was not handled better. I think that part of the answer is that we have too old an outrage placed on the depots. There are newly developed equipment that we need to put in place as soon as possible, whether it is a main depot or an intermediate depot. Serious accidents often occur in severe weather conditions. Then we have to have a readiness that works. With regard to the transfer of the main depot from Fedje to Florø, supported, as far as I know, the majority of the Storting – all except the Advance Party – this, because we were recommended by professional authorities, such as the State Pollution Agency and the Coastal Agency. The move was justified by the need to reduce the response time to the northwards regions towards City. At the same time, oil protection in North Hordland would be satisfactory with only the mid-deposit of Fedje. It also turned out that there were good reasons why a main depot was established in Florø, but, as the Christian People's Party, the Right and Workers' Party pointed out when we dealt with the maritime safety announcement in spring 2005, there were good reasons why it had to be considered that it was also necessary to restore its own main depot in Fedje. In the autumn of 2006, an overall opposition reiterated the need to restore a main depot in Fedje. That is why we are pleased that the Government has now taken this decision, and that a total increase today supports the restoration of the main depot in Fedje.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e826	Maritime traffic along the coast is a visible sign of value creation and of the globalised economy. The prosperity of our country is largely linked to what's happening in the ocean. That is why maritime transport is very positive. At the same time, this maritime traffic also poses a significant threat to the environment. So oil protection is a topical and important issue. We are constantly reminded of how vulnerable our nature is to the spreading of chemicals and the greed that emissions into the sea lead to. After MS "Server" appeared in winter, the discussion of a main depot for oil protection equipment on Fedje came back strongly on the agenda. Fat is centrally located in relation to tanker traffic to Mongstad and Sture, and there is also much other traffic in the area. Contrary to what Jan Sahl from the Christian People's Party just said, the Center Party has always felt that there is a need for a main depot in Fedje. We're glad that the government thinks the same thing, and that there's money coming to this now. These funds lead to the strengthening of the oil protection equipment and to the restoration of a clear crew force that can use the equipment. The risk of loss and discharge into the sea is never eliminated. However, measures to reduce the risk are important, and it is important that we have a good oil protection system that can work quickly and efficiently when accidents are out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e835	Gunnar Kvassheim has asked for the floor, and he is given the floor before the Council of State, Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e838	I would like to start by pointing out that I was subscribed as a left-wing speaker both in the previous case and in this case. In this case, it shall be relatively rapid. It was a right decision to strengthen oil protection by establishing a main depot in Florø, but it was wrong to do so at the expense of the depot in Fedje, even if it was done on the basis of the professional recommendations that had been obtained. The left is pleased that there is now a system of main depots both in Florø and in Fedje. We took note of the 2007 budget, where we wanted this to be done as quickly as possible. Although the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland acts as offended when one points out that today’s government has also previously had the opportunity to restore the depot in Fedje, one must be able to point out that such a proposal did not come into the budget for 2007. However, that is history. The most important thing now is that the deposit is put in place, and it is gratifying that it has also been followed up with an allocation in the revised budget today, so that this can be done quickly. I want to make a few comments on oil protection in general, because it is important that you realize that the job of strengthening oil protection has come a little, but important, step forward with today's decision. But a lot of work remains. The Bondevik II government put these issues on the agenda with full emphasis through its own communication on the marine environment and a number of actions. Measures were put in place to strengthen the tug-boat capacity, get new sailors, etc., a work that has been followed up by today's government. But in the light of the attention given to today's case and other matters, I expect that there will be appropriations in the state budget that reflect an increased priority in this area. I would also like to express some concern about the follow-up to the Northern Region Management Plan, where there was a premise that there would be an increased preparedness for oil activity. There should also be increased preparedness when it comes to environmental information and monitoring, including in relation to seismics. As far as seismic activity is concerned, it has been followed up, but a similar follow-up in the case of oil protection equipment has not been seen. I expect something to be done in the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e854	The cargo boat accident MS ‘Server’, which sank outside of Fedje in January of this year, updated the question of the need for a main oil protection depot in this area. It was Bondevik's second government that in 2005 closed the main depot in Fedje, despite massive protests, especially locally. There is considerable shipping in Northern Hordland, both in the form of tanker traffic to Mongstad and Sture and in the form of local and ordinary coastal traffic. Fats are centrally located in relation to this traffic, and the Government therefore considers it important to strengthen oil protection in the area and see it as important to repatriate the depot in Fedje as its main depot. I am counting on Stortinget's support for the Government's proposal to grant 29 million. kr for this in the revised national budget, so that the main deposit in Fedje may be in place already during 2007. In this way, there is a significant strengthening of the oil protection equipment in Fedje, and a trained crew force capable of mobilising and operating the equipment is established. Re-establishment of the Fedje depot is in addition to the 15 main depots already established along the coast. This therefore means strengthening the overall preparedness for acute contamination. Then the Coastal Authority's report on the upgrading of oil protection equipment has been mentioned from the pulpit. I should therefore like to comment on it. I hear that the opposition is talking about this report as if it were not public. It's not. It is public and has been so for several months. It has even been mentioned in the 2007 budget term, so there has been no secret that such a report is available. The report we are talking about here was completed in October 2005 and is seen as a status for oil protection as it looked when the Bondevik II government went off. Once the Coastal Plant has estimated a need for investment of 260 million. kr in five years, it includes a aftermath from the previous government. In 2001, the SFT was the department responsible for oil protection, and SFT is known under the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In 2001, SFT said in a report that 60 million were needed. Three years in order to upgrade the oil protection equipment. This resulted in a real increase of a little over 2 million. in 2002, when the then Minister for the Environment, Børge Brende, was responsible for oil protection. The status today is that the preparedness is satisfactory in relation to the risk assessments carried out, but the Coastal Plant has therefore proposed a five-year upgrade plan for the replacement of the oil protection equipment. It is a matter to which the Government shall return in the annual budgets. The Government shall, when designing the oil protection equipment, rely on technical advice from the Coastal Works, but the oil protection equipment is ultimately the responsibility of the Government, regardless of the colour of that government. Therefore, the Right cannot cover itself behind the Coastal Works in the case of Fedje. It wasn't the Coast Guard that put down the main depot in Fedje. It was the Bondevik II government that did, with the then Right State Council Svein Ludvigsen in the head. There has been a lot of talk about turning operations today. I am pleased that the Right now turns around in this matter. I also think it is both pleasing and interesting to note that the opposition is making greater demands and has greater expectations and confidence that the Stoltenberg II government will be upgrading the oil protection equipment than it had to its own government, which went off a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e874	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e877	First of all, the report. I think it is a little special that the Council of State says that the report has been public for many months. It is true that the report was completed on 9 January 2006 and on 20 February 2007, the Progress Party Group receives a reply from the Ministry that it has now gone through the Coastal Authority's letter, which can be exempted from public disclosure. The Ministry writes: ‘The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Region has, on the basis of your enquiry, re-examined the matter and, in line with the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Public Health Act on more publicity and the considerations behind the Environmental Information Act, has decided that the document should be transparent. In line with the second paragraph of Section 33 of the Administrative Act, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has thus decided that the document is public.» It's not been months, it's been a very short time. It is therefore especially when the Council of State in the Interpellation debate on 8 May says that ‘from today’s risk assessment, oil protection is satisfactory’. The Council of State still believes that oil protection is satisfactory, when it is about missing. One hundred million. kr in relation to the needs mentioned in the report exempted from public disclosure by the Council of State on 9 January 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e889	This report is mentioned in the 2007 budget proposal. It has not been secret that this report is available. It's public. Now let's agree on that and then discuss the contents of the report. It is not uncommon for the departments to take time to assess the advice of the professional authorities before publishing the report and the supporting material itself. 19th concession round was a glittering example of that, in which the previous government refused to supply material from, among other things. SFT, Marine Research, Coastal Works and Fisheries Directorate. It was this government that had to take the job of publishing that material. I would like to reiterate that oil protection is satisfactory today in the light of the risk assessments that have been carried out. The Coastal Works report points to some of the challenges that we have, but they have spent a five-year run on those investments. A multiannual perspective is needed to assess that report, and the Government will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e898	As a representative of the party that sat in the previous government, I of course do not deny that we went in on advice from the trade union to move the depot. However, as has been said by this government representative here today, it is precisely the profession to be trusted in such decisions – then with reference to the previous case. Now it turns out that both in this case and in the previous one, you have chosen not to do so in the longer term. However, my question goes to the Council of State, which says in the Evening Post today that oil protection is currently satisfactory in relation to the risk assessments available. But it is not in line with the report that has been presented. Except for the 29 million. for the restoration of Fedje, no more money has been brought into the budgets for oil protection. Can the State Council of the Pedersen respond to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e905	We should listen to and base our policies on professional advice, in this case from the Coastal Agency. It is important for the Government that we do not act in spite of the professional advice given by the Coastal Administration, and that is among other things. central to the previous case we were dealing with, on the U-864. But when the Coast Guard provides professional advice, there is nothing in the way that the Government can do anything more than what the trade unions propose. In that light, we are now proposing to re-establish the main depot in Fedje – among others. in order for the local population of Fedje to feel secure for their daily lives, in addition to strengthening oil protection. I just want to repeat that the report from the Coastal Works we are discussing here needs to be read in a five-year perspective. It is not that the oil protection equipment has suddenly become so much older and more out of place in the year and a half since the Bondevik II government left the government offices. There was also a report in 2001 that the Bondevik government and Børge Brende did not choose to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e914	The Council of State points out that the debated report, with recommendations from the Coastal Agency, was discussed in the budget. But these were not the recommendations made by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, which would have been an important decision-making basis for the Storting when we were going to decide how much resources would be used in this area. On the contrary, when an attempt was made to obtain access to the report, it was notified that it was not public. It was after a lengthy work by the Progress Party’s large-scale group that one assessed more publicity and nevertheless considered not to do so for the sake of the public debate. In any case, it tells us that the duty of a public authority to assess more publicity was not followed in the ministry at the time it should have been done, but only after pressure from the Progress Party and one year afterwards. Can the Council of State ensure that the principle of more transparency as described in the Public Health Act will be practised continuously in the Ministry and not only by external pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e921	I note that the representative of Kvassheim believes that there should be other principles underlying this government's public policy than that of the previous government, and that there are higher expectations of what this government is going to do with oil protection than what the previous government did. I record that, and I promise that we will publish information related to the environment in many different areas that are important for the Storting to have transparency, and I can also assure you that we will provide more in terms of oil protection than the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e926	For this with publicity: this government has proclaimed more publicity. That is what raises questions, when you are met with ‘except publicity’ when you call for an important report. I note that there is a significant gap between professional advice and political conclusion in the previous case and in this case. It goes both ways. Here the Council of State has explained the reasons given by the Ministry for restoring the depot, which is in stark contradiction to the professional conclusion. I'm sure the Council of State can confirm that. I would like to ask when new and modern equipment will be in place. I hope it will come into place before the end of 2007. I would like to ask why Stortinget cannot get this report, which has now been made public, to a wide-ranging treatment in Stortinget. It's about oil protection all along the coast, and it's about a status that's not good. That should be discussed in a broad and thorough manner by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e933	As far as the Council of the Coastal Works is concerned, it is important for this government that we do not act across the professional advice given by the Coastal Works. But it is not the case that the Coast Guard has not recommended restoring the depot in Fedje. We do that on the basis of the traffic developments that have occurred, and on the basis of the strong local commitment that has been around this case in Fedje. As regards the Coastal Works report, it is public and the Government will return to the follow-up in the annual budgets. We're starting today with a proposal of $29 million. kr to restore the main depot in Fedje. I just want to repeat that this government is focusing on publicity. That is why we published the supporting material for the trade unions in the 19th round of the concession – something that the previous government was not willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e943	The Council of State referred to the 19th concession round and that there were no published documents and recordings in that connection, saying that it was a practice that the previous government had. That's part of the picture. It was the Labour Party government that established that practice, which was continued by the previous government. The left has opposed that practice both in opposition and in position. It is SV's input that has led to the new practice of today's government, it is not the effort of the Workers' Party. State councils are surprised that there are greater expectations of today's government than of the previous one in the field of oil protection. This is due to the fact that today’s government has increased oil activity in the northern regions. So there's new assumptions in place. Recommendations have also been made by the Swedish Coastal Agency to step up appropriations. Does the Council not understand that there has to be a link between bringing up the oil activity in the north and delivering it on standby and that there is an important part of the reason why there is an increase in expectations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e950	Now it's 260 million. The coastal works have mentioned in their report, including a significant backlog from the Bondevik II Government. It's part of this picture. Then we've said that as ship traffic increases, oil protection equipment should also be dimensioned in relation to it. However, the points made by the representative Kvassheim in relation to oil activity are not quite clear, because with new petroleum activities it also follows requirements for private preparedness. The readiness will automatically be strengthened when new activity arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e957	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e962	It was the representative of Langeland who made me speak again, and I must say that I find the way to debate in the national parliament unworthy. There's a school meeting level on the debate that I don't think we should be familiar with. The history that was carried out is highly doubtful, and I take a sharp distance from it. It is true that both the Council of State in office today and several representatives from the position several times, in fact now also in the last line change that the Council of State had, suggest that it is important to follow the recommendations of the trade unions. I think you should be so sober that you also recognize that this was what happened in the previous round. When many of us at the time, including in the government parties, opposed that decision, the political system functions so that one continues its opposition and has the opportunity to speak. In doing so, the previous government did a fairly parallel reverse operation like what this government has done in the previous case, namely to reopen the matter in a wider perspective. That was the investigation that was being carried out there, which we requested in the 2006 budget. It's not worse. But when the SV from this pulpit says that we had a different attitude, I think you have to go back in your own notes. Very familiar, even after having received this confirmation from the representatives of the Progress Party, they were alone about this and have meant it all the way. Honor be to them for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e969	The progress party is very pleased that the main depot at Fedje will be in place again. There has been a long battle, and there has been a long battle to maintain a main depot for oil protection in one of the most tanker-traffic areas in coastal regions in Europe. Already back in the period 2002-2003 two proposals for representatives, Document No. 8-proposal, one from me and one from the representative Lightbakken, who was dealt with at the same time in a common position. Let me remind you that it was Svein Ludvigsen from the Right who put the depot down. He meant, and I quote from one of the letters referred to in Innst. S. No 16 for 2003-2004: «The conversion of the depot structure in Hordaland represents a strengthening of the total oil protection resources in the neighbourhood.» [[...]] We are very pleased that we have now received a reinforcement. At the time, I did not realize that the then Environment Minister Børge Brende from the Right meant anything about the matter, but I may have heard something here. Then came St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005 on maritime safety and oil protection. In the setting of it, Innst. S. No 178 for 2004-2005, said the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party that there can be ‘a basis for restoring Fedje as a separate main depot’. The Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre then believed that it was a basis and asked the Government to facilitate this. I have still not registered what Børge Brende thought about that opinion. So it's like the Council of State is wrong. In the exchange of views, on professional advice and the difference between professional advice and political conclusion, the Council of State is wrong. The letter following this much-discussed report, the letter from the Coastal Agency to the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs dated 9 January 2006, says on page 4: ‘The coastal directorate may not recommend the re-establishment of a state depot in Fedje on the basis of an overall assessment.’; Last in the letter, on page 6, it says: ‘The estimate of the Coastal Directorate is that there is no need for State oil protection resources in Fedje, either in the form of a main or intermediate depot.’ Once again, the Coastal Agency and the Coastal Directorate present a complete range of professional judgement. That's my assessment. I'm assuming there's an opportunity to express it. This means that I still have no confidence in the assessment of the Coastal Directorate, nor in this case. I hope we now get modern, good equipment in place as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e993	The government is now taking action to strengthen the essential oil protection. The fact that it's important is something that unfortunately we're still being reminded of. Obviously, the representative Halleraker doesn't like that we remember the old sins of the Right. We might have gotten away with that, it wouldn't have been for today's statements by the representative Børge Brende. Burns are shocked that one, according to the Coastal Plant, is now 120 million. kr below what is needed for good oil protection, as he says. But it's a little strange that Børge Brende is shocked by this, because the report that is now available is a continuation of a SFT report that came in 2001. At that time, it was said that there was a 60 million missing. kr for good oil protection. So this is a aftermath that's been allowed to develop since then. No more money has come, and the equipment that was new at the time has now become worn out. The only exception in the case of appropriations is appropriations from the Stoltenberg I Government in connection with the «Green Ålesund», and appropriations were granted to the Swedish Maritime Cartel Agency. The right self-righteousness and the high dark ride in this case will therefore become something special, especially when we know that it was the Right Government that removed the depot that we are discussing today to restore. Clearly, there is no obstacle to the Right, with the greatest of course stated in its remark, that this main depot should have been restored already in the 2006 budget. When the representative Halleraker now raises the question of whether we should follow professional advice, and earlier today there were doubts as to whether the Coastal Plant is a good enough body, so Børge Burnde says today in that case that there can be no doubt that the Right was in government and that if what was in that report, 120 million would be. I have been admitted immediately. This seems somewhat illogical and somewhat incoherent to me. Once again, I think the Right has a little bit of short memory. Finally, I want to take up one more thing. That is the violent ride we have seen today from the Progress Party in terms of the right to public access. This government has called for more public transparency and more transparency. But to the Progress Party, I would just like to say that before you realize that others should give public insight, you might want to take a look at yourself and give taxpayers some insight into how the Progress Party’s big group spends the money they are set to manage here in the building, with different travels, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1004	It was actually the Right that made it necessary to take a little round to get out of the Storting's pulpit in this matter. The comments state that the Right, which voted in favour of the closure of the deposit in spring 2005, suggests that already in the 2006 budget, the recovery of the deposit should be in place. There is one way to pursue policies that, in my opinion, are at a lower level than the upper secondary level, which Halleraker pointed out from this classroom a while ago. When this budget is actually the budget that Right itself has been working on, and they demand from the new red-green government that they should have it in place for the first year, it doesn't hang on to it. That one can criticize it for 2007 is a little more reasonable. But today we're here, delivering $29 million. kr to restore this depot that Børge Brende, Kvassheim, Halleraker and others laid down. That should be a great pleasure. When Right absolves itself by referring to professional advice – is not policy taking responsibility? Is there a policy to stem from responsibility? That's what Halleraker here is trying to do by hiding behind the college. The department says that rush time charges are very tricky in Norway. It's really something that works in Stockholm, the trades union board thought. Does this mean that the Right now supports the professional body, because they say this, and that all the advice from the professional body is now followed by the Right? Nope! Then I thought it was a little cheap to use the professional board as a cover for their own misery when you put the depot down in Fadje. When it comes to the comments that have also been referred to in the case, I would just say that there is no doubt that there were three parties in front of this closure. It was the Progress Party, the Center Party and the SV. That's the actual ratio. If it was a vote on this, I have not been able to check it thoroughly enough, but as far as I understand it, there is no vote on it. But there is no doubt about where the SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party stand in this case, as Right tried to say here from the pulpit. But I thought Right now should smile and be happy because they're not proud of the government's. Be proud of this government, which actually restores the depot and spends 29 million dollars. kr on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1013	This case has something in common with the matter Stortinget treated just before this. One is what the representative Langeland was into, and that is that the parties SV and the Progress Party have been committed to these matters for many years. The other thing in common, as Langeland also points out, is that many of the premises for the current policy are the Bondevik Government and Svein Ludvigsen and, in part, former Environment Minister Børge Brende. The third thing that these two issues have in common, however, is that it is not just about Norway’s credibility as an environmental nation, but it is also about Norway’s credibility as a supplier of fish and seafood from a clean and rich sea. We sell seafood for 40 billion kroner a year. More than 50,000 people have their jobs directly linked to the fishing and aquaculture industry in Norway. An oil disaster will hit this industry hard, and I just want to encourage the government to take this with it in the further work on oil protection. I don't think we can say we're happy just to rust up the depots. I believe that we must also provide a seagoing preparedness throughout the country. It may not be that the fishing industry in North Norway is the only one to be protected by seagoing State oil protection. It also deserves the rest of the country to get. Then you could say it's a pleasure that the government has turned around. I still get a little skeptical when I hear the council say that she follows the professional advice she gets. The report states that in order to achieve what is called an ‘recommended level of preparedness’, a number of higher appropriations are needed. When the Government does not follow up these appropriations in line with the report, how can it be to follow the recommendations made by the Coastal Agency? I don't understand. Before these things are corrected, I believe that we are endangering several thousand jobs along the Norwegian coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1022	Last week, Fisheries Minister Helga Pedersen of Stortinget said that oil conservation in Norway is ‘satisfactory’ – and that after nearly two years of sitting in the Council of State chair without giving one extra crown to oil protection. It also says something about the standard of oil protection that the Council of State took over when she took over the government offices two years ago. It must have been very satisfying. In the course of the two years, the Northern Region management plan was presented, where the Government itself said that it was necessary to provide more money. Coastal traffic, and not least traffic related to Russian oil vessels, has increased sharply. Therefore, a report was submitted by the Swedish Coastal Agency a few days after the Council of State took over, where they said that in 2006 one would need 50 million. kr in additional investments to keep the same level of oil protection equipment. So you need 70 million. kr in 2007. That's a total of 120 million. kr. Then, as the Council of State said last week, it doesn't make sense to have a ‘good time’ to do this, because you had the time until 2010. As several other representatives have also underlined and established, this was the annual appropriations necessary. This did not find it appropriate for the Council of State to inform the Storting about in the budget proposal for the current year. There are these figures from the Coastal Works at all not commented, and it would be right for the Stortinget to know that the Coastal Works thought that 120 million was needed. Extra kroner. The council could of course write that it didn't mean the government. It wasn't necessary. It was satisfactory the way it is now. I wanted to be a little more humble in relation to that information and the relationship with the Storting. So I've heard that some representatives make it a point that the SFT in 2001 thought that 60 million was needed. kr. Yes, the Storting was familiar with. That information was never outside the public domain. This was even commented on in the staging proposition. When I look around the hall, I see several parties that in their alternative budgets didn't have one extra penny compared to the information that the government then provided. This was not for the public, but the need for increased oil protection was addressed through extended territorial waters limits, two to three new tugboats were acquired and, in addition, work was started on the establishment of alternative navigational guides. What this matter is about is what information the Storting should have about what is needed, what the Council of State thinks is opportune to present to Stortinget, and the fact that now we are 120 million. kr lower than when the red-green government took over and thought that more effort should be made on oil protection. You can't talk away. Just as a conclusion: with regard to the posts of the representative Langeland, he was charged by the president last week for his post, and I have to say that it says everything about the need to comment on his posts further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1035	Øyvind Halleraker has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a short reply, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1038	Thank you for that! The representative Langeland makes a number that the Right has changed his mind on a matter that we saw was crazy. That was exactly what the government was doing in the previous case we were dealing with, also while the matter was going on. That's how Langeland talks about pride. I would like to admit that I am not proud that we followed a misguided professional advice, but I am proud that the commitment shown to this decision helped the Bondevik government to start work to change the decision. That's the result of what we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1046	Hallgeir H. Langeland has also spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a short reply, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1049	I think it's good that Halleraker is now satisfied with this government when it's about the licenses to Fedje, and that we're spending 29 million. kr to restore the depot there. That's good. I appreciate the fact that the Right's representative is now boasting of it. The reason why I had to take a last line is that the former Minister of Environmental Protection was not quite precise in his explanation of this. Mr. Brende was Minister for the Environment. He got a report from the SFT saying one had to have 100 million. kr extra for oil protection in Norway. It didn't matter to Mr. Børge Burnde at all, he didn't care about it at all. On the contrary, Mr. Børge Burnde, from another government position, is laying down an oil warehousing depot in Norway and weakening preparedness. Then I thought I should be a little bit careful about criticizing this government, which is actually now spending 29 million dollars. kr to set up a façade that Børge Burnde himself stood for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1056	I just want to repeat what I said in my previous post, which is what the State Council Helga Pedersen also said in the Stortinget last week, that the Government's assessment is that oil protection is today at a satisfactory level – and that after not having awarded one additional crown, according to WWF, in two years. With regard to the figures from the SFT in its time, they were not excluded from the public. SFT's figures were explained in landfill proposals, and the Storting could discuss it. As I said in my post, I look up to several parties here that had no additional appropriations, because the government said that oil protection equipment – after starting work on changing the sailing routes, after expanding the territorial waters limits and also after strengthening the tug capacity with three boats – was satisfactory. What this debate is now about is that in 2005, a report was issued at the Government’s table, which said that to maintain oil protection at a safe level, 50 million needed to be needed. SEK in 2006 and 70 million. kr in 2007. Has the Storting been made aware of this report? No, no, no. We did not know that the technical advice was that so much extra money was needed because of the opening up of oil and gas activities through the new management plan, and because more oil tankers are now sailing along our coast. Then, of course, we could also get a comment from the Government related to the Coastal Works report, where they had said yes, we have reviewed the report, and we believe that the additional appropriations are not necessary. The level at which we are today is satisfactory. At least then the Stortinget in designing its alternative budgets had the information that we should have had and that the Stortinget got through the SFT report in 2001. I don't think it's right to let Stortingen access that kind of information, even if it feels uncomfortable. It is particularly important in an area as vulnerable as oil protection. It is important that this information is provided to the national Parliament of the country. Had I been from the government parties, I would have said yes, Stortinget should have got this report on his table, and we should not have kept it secret until after the accident at Fedje. Then we could discuss the level and have arguments in both directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1069	Firstly, this government has proposed to grant extra money. The allocation of the Fedje deposit proposed in the revised national budget is a good example of this. In the forthcoming budgets to be submitted by this government, we shall return to the report of the Coastal Works and to the slowdown left by the Bondevik II Government. The representative Børge Brende argues that this report had not been published. It has been published. The right has every opportunity to add the appropriations they want into their alternative state budget, an opportunity they don't use while they put in government and made proper budgets. The right has an excellent occasion when revisions are to be dealt with in Stortinget. That's where the government has proposed $29 million. kr to restore the depot that the previous government laid down. I hope and expect that the Right will support that proposal, and I am glad that the depot has been restored.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1078	Mr. Brende has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1081	I had actually looked forward to the articles of the Council of State. I had hoped that the Council of State had put the matter to death linked to this report, and that she had been so generous as to say that this report should probably have been informed in the current year's budget proposal. I think the Council of State would have earned that. It's not true, as the Council of State says, that we could take this information into account in our alternative budget. That report has now been released, but it was released after the Fedje accident, in March this year. How could we have taken this into account in our alternative budgets? I just don't understand that. I think it's a good principle to give the Storting the information that the Storting wants. It may also help to push forward increased bets, if that's what the Council of State wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1088	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1104	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1117	I think the temperature in this case is a little lower. It is also because, in my opinion, we have received a good document on the table related to offensive and internationally oriented chemicals policy. There is no doubt that the three really major environmental challenges we are facing are related to climate, dramatic loss of biodiversity, and that the amount of pollutants and other health and environmental hazardous chemicals we are dealing with is such both nature and quantity that it blends with the other two challenges. Environmental toxicities do not have any national boundaries and are, in fact, a not insignificant global problem. Norway and the north are particularly vulnerable to pollutants that produce ocean and air flows from other countries and parts of the world. Again, strict bans here at home are of little help, as long as our vulnerable Arctic acts as the world's toxins sink. In other words, this is also an important global challenge. Many of the environmental problems we face today are due to the ignorance of the past. PCBs, DDT and mercury were used for a long time without any known adverse effects. Today, such old environmental sins are found in polluted soils and polluted sediments in the fjords. In fact, there are dietary restrictions in 27 of our fjords, where it is not recommended to eat shellfish and the like. It is also true that in the 1950s and 1960s there was not much discussion about the use of PCBs and DDT when we are discussing remediation in contaminated land and in previous environmental sins. What is important in this communication is that we now also imagine what will become the future pollutants, where in fact someone in 20 years can say: why didn't you say no to this in 2007? We need to be more predictable, and it is the framework around such a code that we are today asked to decide. The environmental toxins accumulate in the food chain and create problems for animals and humans. It's actually the case that in måseegg in North Norway it's been measured so high PCB values that it's not recommended to eat more than one måseegg a year, and this is one of the areas that we think is cleanest in the world. Children and women of childbearing potential are advised to avoid sea eggs altogether. Researchers also suspect that misalignment in polar bears on Svalbard may be due to high levels of PCB. Why, for example, are living? polar bears on Svalbard so much shorter than the corresponding polar bears that you have in the northern part of Canada? There may be something about the airflows that are different. More of the pollutants end up because of the special air currents up in our Arctic areas. We must, as I said, avoid creating similar problems for later generations by using chemicals that can prove to be future environmental pollutants. Such an example may be brominated flame retardants. In the last 20 years, a sharp increase in these substances has been recorded in breast milk. The experience with PCBs shows that once pollutants are released into the wild, it is very difficult and expensive to clean up afterwards. So this is an area where the principle of good value both ecologically and economically is preferable. At the same time, it is difficult to imagine a modern society without extensive use of chemicals in products and processes. Only on the European market today there are 50 000 chemicals in use. It's the most dangerous chemicals, the pollutants, that we want to protect ourselves completely from. These can cause, as I mentioned instead, great damage in the long term. Among the most famous toxins are lead, mercury, PCBs, cadmium and brominated flame retardants. The most dangerous pollutants are not just dangerous by direct contact. In addition, they have the property that they climb up the food chain. It doesn't help to ban a substance at home when we import goods from other countries that are less strict than us. It helps little to impose strict requirements on the production of new products if at the same time we do not have a good grip on the sorting of hazardous waste at home. The Committee has worked closely on this matter and has in fact also agreed that it is an important task we are now facing to establish a toxic-free environment and a safer future. The Committee stresses that: ‘chemical policy must be consistent and predictable and have a long-term perspective. Nor should chemicals policy contribute to the disappearance of important industrial workplaces from Norway and the establishment of companies in countries with lower environmental standards. It loses both Norway and the environment.’» In addition, a new chemicals legislation has been established within the EU. In this area, too, the EU is the major global environmental player who is most offensive. It is interesting to note that the EU is now out there setting ambitious objectives in climate negotiations. We're coming for Norway. As regards biodiversity, the EU is the leading driver globally, and Norway would, for example, EU membership had to strengthen a good part of its natural management policy due to more stringent legislation there. The EU has also taken a great deal of responsibility in the field of chemicals policy. So it's interesting that there's a joint committee that says, ‘With its extensive requirements for testing, information on use and exposure up and down the supply chain, REACH is very ambitious in a global context. The Committee shall meet with the implementation of the REACH Regulation in Norwegian legislation as soon as possible.’ I would also like to challenge the Council of State in its contribution to say something more about when the Council of State sees it possible for the REACH Directive to be included in the Norwegian legislation. I understand that there is now a hearing going on, and that it is complicated to say an exact time. But what an overall committee says, and also with the SV's excellent representative on board, is that we should get a clarification quickly, and that we should also include the REACH Directive quickly. I think that the Council of State in a letter to the Committee highlights both the impact it will have on Norwegian jobs, and the danger that some of the industry will then move out of Norway to areas with lower environmental standards, if we are not quick to include the REACH Directive in Norwegian legislation. State councils say in their response, which is referenced on page 12 of the setting: ‘REACH is of major importance for Norwegian industry and, in particular, Norwegian suppliers of chemical products. As long as REACH is not part of the EEA Agreement, Norwegian suppliers could be considered to be exporters from third countries and EU customers would then be given the status of importers with the extensive obligations involved. This could result in EU customers preferring suppliers within the EU.» [[...]] We have to avoid for the most part that due to the late implementation of REACH in Norway, we have a situation where important Norwegian jobs disappear, for example. the large paint producer Jotun and l. This is essential, because there is no environmental benefit in their eventual disappearance. What is now also significant, and where I want to demand a greater commitment and more concrete initiative from the Government, is in terms of cleaning up the sediments. I mentioned the 27 fjords that have so many pollutants in the sediments that dietary restrictions have been imposed. An important work has been started – one has done it in Sandefjord, one is in Oslo, and one has done it in Trondheimsfjord – to clean up these old environmental sins. In fact, here I am calling for a more concrete action programme from the Government, and at least as an opposition party, we regret that this year the Government reduced the funds for clearing up the fjords by 6 million. kr. That was correct following an increased effort in the 2006 budget. But in an area that is so incredibly important, it was stupid to cut for the current year. It is also interesting to hear the thoughts of the Council of State and the Department. Was it a work accident that you cut off, I think it was $6 million. kr or 7 mill. kr for the current year? The needs are huge. The need isn't just tens of millions. The SFT has stated in a previous report that it is about billions. But these are investments to clean up old environmental sins. Keep those responsible, but many of them are not searchable. So it's about pollution from so many years back in time that the state has to go in and take responsibility. I believe that Norway is now establishing an offensive chemical policy through this big business message. We've had it internationally and nationally for many years. We've had some of the strictest demands. However, by including the REACH Directive into Norwegian legislation at the top of this, we get an even better and more effective regulation. And then we're going to hope that we get an international impact so that a lot of this code can become a global code, because it doesn't help much if we have strict rules, and China doesn't have them, and a lot of this ends up in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1162	The protection of the environment has now come seriously on the political agenda, and this government has more than any other government has taken the initiative to turn Norway into one of the countries where others have so far only spoken. We're going to deal with the fight against a number of pollution. There is a significant reduction in emissions into air and water, a reduction in substances that deplete the ozone layer, a reduction in substances that supply excessive amounts of nutrients and a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, etc. Of course, this picture includes the use and emissions of the pollutants. We want a safer future. Therefore, we now need to set targets for a policy that does not lead to health damage, which does not lead to damage to ecosystems, and which does not result in damage to nature's ability to produce and self-renewal. The ambition of the red-green government is to bring the concentrations of hazardous chemicals down to the level corresponding to the background level of naturally occurring substances. It implies a level of almost zero for man-made pollutants. One of several initiatives and responses comes through the big message we are now dealing with on a non-toxic environment. The need to bring about the necessary regulation and, where appropriate, the prohibition of the use of many chemicals is urgent. This was evident in the work in the EU on a new chemicals legislation, REACH, which Børge Brende mentioned quite broadly. I have partially followed this work in the EU since the European Commission presented its proposal in the autumn of 2003. In this work, it turned out that, first of all, we have a huge number of chemicals in use, and second, we don't know if these are harmful or how harmful these are. So we're talking about tens of thousands of chemicals. We don't know enough about health and the environment. This is very serious. In the future, the chemicals around us must be safe. It is important that environmental pollutants are removed from the recycling chain. The chemical legislation must also be clear and the supervisory bodies must have knowledge and ensure that the legislation is complied with. I've worked a lot on health issues and health policies in the past, and I just have to admit that it has sometimes been frustrating to see an increase in the incidence of many diseases, without anyone pointing to clear cause factors. Many cancers have increased by from 100 pst. to 300 pst. on approx. 40 years. It would not be particularly speculative to assume that health and environmentally hazardous chemicals have a rich share in these sad statistics. Strong increases in the incidence of allergy and reduced fertility also need explanations. Unfortunately, the worldwide use of pollutants includes: in agriculture long after it was clear that use could or would cause serious damage. This sample of examples can form a backstop for us to make significant improvements as the lack of knowledge about chemicals decreases and decreases. Moreover, as mentioned in the Communication, the precautionary principle is important when science cannot provide us with safe advice and answers. Contamination of the paying principle also makes many think about. If it costs to pollute, the improvements will also get faster on the table. However, much has already been achieved if one looks at the results of reductions in emissions on the list of priority areas, including for example: 95 pst. reduction from 1985 to the present day of the most dangerous substances on the list. However, much remains in the case of both PCB, brominated flame retardants and various heavy metals, such as: lead, cadmium and mercury. For example: heavy metals, global agreements are still to be reached, and Norway needs to make a strong contribution, as the Government has also announced in this Communication. It is important that the UN adopted classification system, with classification rules on which physical, chemical and health and environmental properties that may be hazardous, can now be accepted and implemented worldwide. In addition, it is important to gain understanding, both in Norway and globally, so that essential parts of production and future value creation are based on a clean and non-toxic nature. Yes, in many respects this is a decisive competitive advantage. I could only mention one of the most growing industries out there and at home, namely travel and tourism. Food safety is increasingly linked to toxic and environmentally friendly production methods and to a toxic-free environment. We are now making very strict demands on the use of chemicals in our largest industry, that is, the oil and gas sector. It hasn't always been done sufficiently in the past. The requirements should be tough and consistent. The sea is far more vulnerable than many have wanted to take over so far. In the notification, the government gives examples of strong commitment to the cleaning up of contaminated seabeds and the cleaning up of contaminated sediments. An action plan in this area is clearly set out in the Communication. That's excellent. That is why I do not think it was absolutely necessary to make a separate proposal from the opposition on that, because this is already happening. There's something called looking up open doors, it doesn't. There's nothing wrong with the proposal, it's just that the government has already taken this into account. I am also very pleased that an action plan is being presented to clean up contaminated soil in kindergartens and playgrounds. Security for our children and others must be important. I mentioned REACH earlier in my article. It is now important that the REACH Regulation – because it is a regulation – be included in the EEA Agreement, as the formalities require. If this is not the case, Norwegian enterprises will have an almost insurmountable competitive disadvantage — at least for some industries. I have noticed what the Minister for the Environment wrote to the Committee, which is also quoted earlier, but let me, to be complete, take it into my post here: ‘As long as REACH is not part of the EEA Agreement, Norwegian suppliers could be considered to be exporters from third countries and EU customers would then be given the status of importers with the extensive obligations resulting from the Regulation. This could lead to EU customers preferring EU suppliers.’ It is therefore urgent to clarify, so that customers such as Norwegian companies do not have in the EU are now switching to EU suppliers. It's said that someone has already started making strategic choices, so we can't wait too long to do this. I would also like to say that it may be a risk sport to try to obtain extensive exemptions from parts of REACH. It is very unlikely that we will be exempted from the REACH regulations that no other country has received. We'd rather work for – it's my visit to the Government, and I'm sure it does too – that the legislation for everyone is adjusted in line with new knowledge and good environmental policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1214	Let me start by commending the Government for the job it has done with this message. I want to say a few words about the polar bear. The climate is changing. The ice is retreating. It has done the same before, but this creates certain problems for the polar bear. In addition, higher and higher levels of chemicals are being measured in polar bears in the northern regions. These toxic chemicals come up through the food chain, through fish for sale and into polar bears mainly. This causes the polar bear to face two challenges, of which at least one is man-made. The high level of chemicals causes the polar bear to have problems with fertility. But even though polar bears act in areas that we regard as Norwegian, most of the chemicals come from other parts of the world. It shows that it is important to have a significant commitment to international negotiations, because this challenge cannot be solved only in Norway. What you can solve in Norway is the problems facing seabirds in Trondheimsfjorden. Because of many years of high levels of chemicals and toxins in the water in Trondheimsfjorden, many seabirds nesting in the area have suffered a severely reduced breeding success. The reason for this is that the seabirds shall not take up enough lime. This reduces the breeding success, given that the eggs are not strong enough. These toxins don't come from the United States. Here I think I want to arrest some of the government's points in the message. Today the toxins come out mainly through the sewerage in Trondheim, and there is reason to warn against. It shows that national measures are also important, in addition to international measures. I find that the Government in the notification is using the polluter pays principle. Then I am proud to say that the Progress Party was the first party in Norway that the programming party just pollutes the payment principle. Some of the other things I also want to highlight from the message are the need for information to the consumer. Then I'm just going to mention areas where we don't fully agree with the majority. The part of progress indicates that copper, which is a micronutrient, should not be compared with serious toxins such as PAH, TBT, mercury, etc. For example, the impact of a rigid and strict legislation on the use of copper in Norway may be expected. the shipping industry is relocating its maintenance tasks from Norway to other countries. Then I hope that the REACH Directive can correct any changes. Should copper receive the same treatment in the REACH Directive, this is not a major problem. But to charge a substance like copper when its use is based on the best available technology, we find something strange. Marine sediments have both of the previous two speakers. The problem is that one cannot essentially say that the polluter has to pay, because the polluter is often not known. Pollution has been going on for decades. Unfortunately, the state has to take that bill. I look forward to the government coming back with a more ambitious bet on just this work. So it's like there's also some serious pollution on land. The Council of State and I had a debate a year and a half ago about the Nygården in Malvik. We have now been given a clarification to Nygården in Malvik that it will be cleaned up. We just have to appreciate that very much. I'm going to end by pointing at this with mercury. I find two major paradoxes about the government's work on this. Every year, the Norwegian industry releases approx. 200 kg of mercury. There is little relative to the amount of aluminium and lime produced in these processes. In Fedje there are 46 tonnes – 46 000 kg – mercury. I believe that the Government should have credibility in protecting Norway, Norwegian nature, Norwegian consumers, Norwegian fishing industry and Norwegian agricultural industry against mercury, the Government must also remove the mercury at Fedje. Another paradox is that in the same session as this message is being presented, the government will most likely also provide an injunction for the use of one-off barriers. Usual bulbs do not contain mercury, while disposable bulbs contain mercury. This leads to increased consumption of chemicals in the use of the product. I thought the intention of this message was to reduce the consumption of such products. I refer to the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1240	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1245	The representative Lien must do right for his daily salary today! There was a paradox in the representative's posts that made me take this line. Very many of the environmental improvements we have seen are linked to the fact that government and government have made demands both on public authorities and on companies to reduce emissions from production or services. The representative, Lien, is a polluter of the payment principle. It's a very important and correct principle. Then it may be unfortunate, but perhaps not surprising, that the Progress Party would not be involved in a comment that we have in the vote, where we are just stressing the need for extended producer responsibility to reduce the use of pollutants. With the opinions expressed by the representative in his post, I wonder whether he can live with such an observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1254	Absolutely. We assume that for all hazardous pollutants, the best available technology — the best available technology — should be taken into account. Contaminants the paying principle is clear. The Progress Party has joined all the points presented by the Government in its setting. When we have not joined the comment to which the representative refers, it is afraid of the consequences it will have for the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1261	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1264	The work on hazardous chemicals and pollutants is a global problem as described by the rapporteur. The chemicals know no borders, and we depend on international cooperation to have a clean environment here. The representative of the Progress Party was also about how the pollutants accumulate in our Arctic neighbourhoods and pose a problem for polar bears and seabirds. Looking back to the 1950s and 1960s, when the first researchers began to suggest this, it must have appeared as a bit of fairy tales that industrial emissions, emissions from sewerage and even emissions from products could follow ocean currents and wind currents all the way to the North Pole, in order to become a problem for the ability to reproduce polar bears and for eggshells to seabirds. There were many of the researchers who were ridiculed. There were many of the researchers who called out a warning then that no one heard. The most famous of them was Rachel Carson, who wrote "Silent Spring", about the effects of DDT, like, for example. did something about just the reproductive capacity of a bird. The history of the pollutants and of the damage they are doing to nature is, in fact, the story of why we have the precautionary principle in environmental policy: if we are in doubt, we should let the doubt benefit nature. I can only think of climate change when I hear the posts in the hall today. The coating we have today for climate change due to pollutants far exceeds what you should have taken seriously at the time. The scientists who called a warning in the 1960s and 1970s would have saved us enormous expenses for cleaning if they had been listened to at the time. Norway has a history of being one of the countries that have tried to lead the way in chemicals policy. We were among the first countries in the world to address the asbestos problem through our strict work environment law. Other countries — and the EU — came a long way behind this. We are still one of the countries in the world which have the most stringent policy on the use of injecting drugs in agriculture. Unfortunately, during this round, the EU was not able to make agricultural chemicals part of the REACH Directive, and that was not the case. Of course, we're going to implement REACH, because it's the framework that we can be with and improve and develop, and that we have to work within. It will strengthen Norwegian environmental policy in some areas, and we need to do what we can to implement it in a way that does not weaken Norwegian standards. The major environmental challenges are no longer the poison coming out of the factory pipes or the factory pipes, it's the poison coming out of the gate. Most of the pollutants in the future will be pollutants present in products. We're starting to get rid of the old pollutants like PCBs -- polychlorinated biphenyl. In a statistic that might not be nice to read, we see that the amount of PCBs in breast milk goes down. But at the same time, we see that we are starting to find increasing quantities of the new consumer chemicals, for example. the brominated flame retardants, in breast milk. When you breast-feed yourself, of course, it's a paradox to think about. It's also a paradox to think that if I had tested myself before I had my child, the content of environmental toxins in my body would have been higher than if I had tested myself now, because there are only two ways that the human body can get rid of environmental toxins – either through breast milk or by giving birth to a child. We still know very little about what the tiny amounts of these dangerous substances mean to our bodies and to our health, but it's important to be aware of it and try not to have them there. That's why I'm happy with the grips the government is now taking to get more information out, so that people can choose away environmental contaminants. Short on cleaning up sediments. For us, it is clear that efforts need to be stepped up. Norwegian fjords shall be a fjord and not a fjord. I am also pleased that there is an almost collective committee that has supported the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister for the Environment in the hard work that is now being done to clean up the Oslo soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1284	With this message, the government has provided an important message for our living environment. The title – Together for a non-toxic environment – also covers the treatment in this room. The Committee's position demonstrates a high degree of political agreement on challenges, objectives and principles for a non-toxic environment. It's a pleasure. This political consensus can thus be used, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve concrete results towards the industry and the commercial industry that markets and uses chemicals. It strengthens the role of a driving force in international negotiations for stricter regulation of chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment. It also provides an opportunity to promote the interests of the consumer: the security, the right to know and the right to conduct goods. The Christian People's Party wants us to be a driving force in international negotiations. We want Norway to be a priority country to prevent chemicals from harming health and the environment. The government thus has our support if it wants to implement a policy with these ambitions as a starting point. Environmental toxins can be very harmful to the environment and life. These are health and environmental chemicals that are not degradable in nature and easily accumulate in the ecosystem and the human body. When these pollutants accumulate in the food chain, even small emissions can pose an unacceptable risk to health and the environment. The research can document large values in e.g. polar bear and there is a legitimate suspicion that this affects the fertility of polar bear. We already know that 10 pst. of the polar bear population is dubbed. Environmental toxins affect nature and our basis of life, and this knowledge must have political consequences in terms of requiring evidence from industry that used chemicals are safe for health and the environment, and that we place greater emphasis on the importance of leading. In the past, environmental pollutants were dispersed with emissions from industrial production. In recent decades there has been a clear decline in emissions from industry. But the pollutants are finding new ways today. Today, the products themselves are an important source of environmental dispersal. This requires an increased focus on business responsibilities, documentation and the consumer's right to know. It is important for the consumer to have easily accessible knowledge, because knowledge can be involved and prevent fear and fear. But the desire for a non-toxic environment also involves the cleaning up of pollutants. The Christian People's Party believes that it is now important to prioritize cleanup. We agree with the Government that puts the children's play environment in focus. We need to ensure that the play environment is toxic, whether there are products or contaminated soils in playgrounds and kindergartens. It's about knowledge among adults, but it's also about financial resources to replace contaminated soil. An action plan without financial resources is of little value. Treatment of contaminated seabeds is also a challenge. In the Christian People's Party, we are particularly concerned that environmental poisons are now spreading in the Inner Oslofjord with the poison dumping outside the Malmøykalven. We are surprised that an SV Environment Minister ignores the majority of the referendum in SV-steered Nesodden, and listens more to a City Council from the Right and the Progress Party. I cannot be satisfied with the answers given by the Council of State and the Environment Administration to a troubled population around Inner Oslofjord. From the measurements, a halt to the deposit should be re-assessed, the methods should be re-assessed and the situation monitored. I underlined that there is a broad consensus in the setting. But I still want to say that it is strange that the government cannot participate in an obliging escalation plan for cleaning up contaminated sediments. It is also important that the Government clarify the REACH Directive and that it is rapidly implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1307	It is good to see that there is a great deal of consensus about the communication being presented today and in the comments made by the Committee. This is good in view of the possibilities for an effective follow-up to this big message, and there is no doubt that there is a need for it. In Norway, we have the tradition of being a leading country in this area, where we have been able to combine the concerns of increased production and welfare growth with offensive and forward-looking environmental and chemical policies. There are several of the numbers here that have been at the intersection of industry and the environment, and they have drawn it out in a way that makes it look like this is a contradiction. My view is rather the opposite: these are two considerations that should go hand in hand, and that should have a good opportunity to complement each other. And that's exactly what you see in Norway. The representative, Lien, said that we're going to get out in total at the base of 200 kg of mercury this year. We have an aluminium industry that is probably among the cleanest in the world. Nevertheless, it has been possible to create a framework for this industry, which has been interesting with development, initial investment and new jobs in Norway, now at Sunndalsøra. It is a policy that absolutely must continue. Because it is precisely this dynamic in which the state advances both with whips and with carrots, which provides for innovation, development and forward-looking activity in our business life. That is the relationship with the REACH Directive. The Central Party is also of the opinion that the REACH Directive is a significant step forward. However, we are concerned that this should not be reflected in the fact that there are minimum standards that we require ourselves to follow. We are prepared to implement it, but it is with the clear assumption that this does not mean a reduction in Norwegian environmental standards. It will also be very important that we continue to work to improve the directive, or the regulation, so that we can tighten up the areas where it is necessary throughout the European economic zone. In the message, the government already warns that it is going to work for a total ban on parts of the brominated flame retardants. We are very pleased about that, and it is clear that this ban will have a significantly greater impact if it is introduced across Europe. Last year the committee was on a study trip to Svalbard. There we were given insight into the effects of long-distance chemicals on the polar environment. The representative Tord Lien said instead that it was a challenge for the polar bear that the police disappeared. That must be today's understatement! However, it also has other challenges related to the impact of chemicals, like a wide range of other polar animal species. This first shows how vulnerable it is, and how important it is that we get chemicals out of the value chain, so that we avoid these problems in the future. In addition, it provides Norway with a special opportunity and responsibility through targeted research and knowledge acquisition to participate in and tighten up international legislation. We have the opportunity to be a knowledge base that allows us to base other premises on the further debate. Then I want to stress the importance of having an effective review, and having effective product information, so that people get full information about what their products contain. Consumer awareness is very important. So I'm going to end by saying that the clearing of old contaminated land must be a priority area. We look forward both to the action plan and to increased financial resources in the course.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1326	Several of the previous speakers have well described the challenges we face in this area. There is also a good description of much of the positive work that has been done and that has helped to reduce parts of the problem. It has also been a good reflection of the challenges we face and of which there is a broad consensus that we must now tackle with strengthened force. For the Left, it is quite natural that we have the ambition that Norway should be a leading country in preventing chemicals from harming health and the environment. It should be an ambition for Norway to be a driving force for more stringent international regulation of chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment. The Left fully supports the proposed measures in the Communication and an effort in the areas where the Government announces that one will return with a more offensive policy. We also support the principles outlined and which will underpin the work of a non-toxic environment. In its document to the Stortinget, the Government states that one is concerned with strengthening research activities in the field of health and environmental hazardous chemicals. It's a completely natural ambition, because part of the problem is that one doesn't know, and the relationships you don't know. This ambition to strengthen research efforts has, moreover, been described by the Government in a number of areas, and it seems increasingly incomprehensible that in a number of areas, one wants to strengthen research efforts, but at the same time reduces the ambitions through the budgets and says that one wants to have a break in research policy now. It is important that a replacement with a new offensive bet. What is uplifting in this area is to see that policy has worked in some areas. But there's still a lot that's been undone, and we're busy. One of the areas in which it is important to clean up is old environmental sins that pollute land both on land and on the seabed. Thus, although the Government stresses that one should clean up, this, which some previous speakers had in mind, was not followed up with appropriations in the 2007 budget. It is a problem in some areas of environmental policy that the ambition that one says one has, and what one actually delivers of appropriations and instruments, is not related. It's well illustrated with a budget where one says one has ambitions to clean up, but cuts the appropriations by six million. kr. The polluter pays principle is important for the Left, and it is important that it also includes the fact that where the State or state companies have been operating, there is a special responsibility for carrying out clean-up, including: because the State is to show its way by taking responsibility and by pursuing offensive policies in this area. The government has said that it will implement action plans to clean up the seabed and clean up contaminated soil – kindergartens and playgrounds are specifically mentioned in this context. I hope that one will come back with an obligating plan for how one will escalate the appropriations in this area, and it would be positive if the government parties had joined the proposal that is in the vote, to promote such an obligating plan for the Storting during the autumn. It would be a good way to meet the opposition, and it would be an important offensive in an area where it is definitely needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1343	‘Together for a toxic-free environment’ is the first large-scale message dealing with health and environmental hazardous chemicals in their full range. The message comes because this is a priority area for the Government. The approach and interventions so far show that an overall increase agrees with the need for an ambitious and comprehensive policy on chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment. Chemical policy shall ensure a high level of protection for consumers, workers and the environment. Increased efforts today and the active use of the precautionary principle will also help to ensure that future generations do not have to use large resources to clean up today’s pollution. Much has been done to reduce the risk. However, if we are to achieve a safe and non-toxic future, use and emissions need to be reduced more. The Government therefore proposes in the Communication a number of new interventions to help reduce the emissions and use of hazardous chemicals for health and the environment. Environmental toxins do not have any national boundaries. They are carried over long distances through air and ocean currents and through trade in products. In particular, our northern regions, as the representative Børge Brende said, are a kind of 'discharge sink' for environmental pollutants. Therefore, international solutions are essential in addition to national measures, and Norway should be an active driver. Many substances that we have banned or regulated strictly are still in use in developing countries, where control and protection against damage are very weak. I am pleased that the Committee on Energy and the Environment also considers that efforts to combat environmental pollutants must be an important part of the aid. Still challenges remain for the Norwegian industry. Therefore, the government will not allow environmental emissions from new production after 2008 unless there are compelling reasons. Strict environmental requirements could contribute to the development of new and cleaner technologies. In line with the generation target, emissions shall be halted as far as possible by 2020. Therefore, by 2010 the business community will draw up plans to show how this is to be achieved. The Government will also impose strict requirements on other value-creating activities, such as agriculture, forestry, aquaculture and transport. The government wants the products we surround with to be safe. They're not when they contain pollutants. The government will, as far as possible, stop the use of environmental pollutants in consumer products. In addition, we are working to ban or introduce other instruments for other pollutants, such as several brominated flame retardants, mercury and copper. Recently, we have banned the environmental toxin PFOS. The government will also strengthen information on health and environmental chemicals in products, so that we can all make informed choices. So some words about REACH. Thus, the new chemicals legislation REACH has recently been adopted in the EU. REACH involves the responsibility of industry to demonstrate that their chemicals are safe for health and the environment. Overall, REACH legislation will provide better protection of health and the environment. More information on chemicals will enable the removal of dangerous chemicals. REACH will also ensure that the most dangerous substances are strictly prohibited or regulated. I note that the Committee wants the rapid implementation of REACH in Norway. I can assure you that the work is a high priority in the Government. In addition to our own assessments, we have launched a process involving the other EFTA countries in order to advance the process. Increased knowledge of chemicals is a high priority. We must have research and monitoring results that can be used as a basis for new policies. The government will, among other things, develop a comprehensive monitoring and monitoring programme by 2009, focusing in particular on data from the Arctic regions. A main focus in the message is how we can prevent later the need to clean up contaminated land and sediments. Several of our fjords and ports are now heavily contaminated as a result of past emissions and use of pollutants. Cleaning up along the Norwegian coast and in our fjords is a high priority of the Government. The notification contains a separate action plan for contaminated seabeds, based on the 17 most polluted areas in Norway. The government will make a special effort to protect children, and the message contains an action plan to clean up soil in kindergartens and playgrounds. The government also wants to increase efforts to reduce the amount of hazardous waste. We will also strengthen efforts to stop the release of hazardous chemicals to and from waste pipes. One of the main objectives of chemicals policy is to stop the release of pollutants by 2020. This is an ambitious objective and an objective environmental protection authorities cannot achieve alone. The Government will therefore invite relevant organisations and different sectors into a wide-ranging body to advise on how further work needs to be done to achieve the objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1376	The government will stop the emissions of environmental pollutants by 2020. I think that's a great ambition. But then there are those emissions that have partly come many, many years ago. The state is, as I said, polluting in many of the areas. We have industrial sites around the country of Norway where both the state itself has been an operator and industrial enterprises owned by the state have been actors. They're lying there and they're heavily contaminated. The same is true of the fjords, as mentioned earlier. The opposition is today promoting a proposal that is likely to fall. We have heard from the representative of Kristoffersen that this is an unnecessary proposal, because this works with the Government. If the Council of State needs a reminder, the proposal is that the Storting asks the Government to come back with an obliging escalation plan to clean up polluting sediments – I was going to say – to land and to water. When it's unnecessary for the minority to ask for this plan, I wonder if the council can tell me where this work is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1385	Many of these areas are very large, they have many complex pollution problems and they are also more responsible, which obviously means that we need flexibility when we are going to go into the different areas. We see, in many of these areas, that we need to assess both costs and who is specifically responsible. In the case of the budgets, it will be expressed on a case-by-case basis in the annual budgetary rounds. But it's clear that we have to make concrete analyses in each area, because it's both complex and complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1390	As I also referred to in my post, a joint committee says that REACH in a global context is very ambitious. When the Government is now working on the issue of the implementation of the REACH Regulation in Norwegian legislation, does the Council see some areas within REACH where the EU is too short in relation to what is Norwegian standards today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1395	We're just doing the assessments of the different parts of REACH. What I think there is a great deal of agreement about is that REACH is a comprehensive regulatory framework and that it is all good for health and the environment. But it is absolutely necessary that we go to work thoroughly, just to reveal the issues that, among other things. The representative Burnde mentions, in order to ensure that we have the best possible legislation. But the government wants to integrate REACH as soon as possible, so we are working, as I also said in my post, with the other EFTA countries to get ahead of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1400	I record that the Council of State was not involved in the poison dumping in Inner Oslofjord in its contribution. I think that's a little strange, when a government representative says that this government is dealing with other people just talking. Here one had the opportunity to go from words to sustainable action. I also think it is strange in relation to the attention given to this matter in the relevant municipalities. There's a lot of people in the Nesodden, in Upper Courtyard, and in Oslo who's scared. You're afraid of what this toxin dump is going to do. My question to the Council of State is, how will the Council of State take this fear, this popular reaction in these municipalities, seriously? What measures do the Council of State take to play on the ground, to inform and to do the right steps in the clean-up process, so that the population living in this area can be safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1407	The cleaning up of the Oslo soil is a major environmental measure. A number of monitoring requirements are laid down in the permits for clean-up and landfill operations. Because of the turmoil that has occurred in the last period, in March I asked the State pollution control authorities to provide further monitoring, precisely to meet that concern and to ensure that the process goes as the permits involve. Thus, the SFT is in the process of implementing the increased monitoring during these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1413	The Council of State is quite right when, in her contribution, she underlines the need for new knowledge and research. That's why I pointed out in my post that it's not related to one not following up on appropriations for research in the budgets. Governments were also concerned with the need for good data access in the Arctic areas. In this respect, I refer to the Left's proposal to support the Zeppelin station in New Ålesund, which is an important instrument, but which is struggling with scarce budgets. I have registered that the government has obliging plans in terms of babysitting, babysitting, etc., but in terms of cleaning up at the bottom of kindergartens and in Norwegian fjords, there is a lot of vaguer. They say you have ambitions, but cuts in the budgets. Is it the ambition of the Council of State to invest more money in the budget of the harvest than before in this area, as part of a planned escalation of appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1420	Now I'm not going to reveal anything related to the 2008 budget, but it's clear that cleaning up the environment and cleaning up both at sea, in kindergartens and in playgrounds is a high priority area. The message that we have presented here is in one of the areas where the government has a high priority. Environmental toxins, together with climate and biodiversity, are the highest priority areas in the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1425	In the big news, the government says that they will assess the introduction of a fee or a ban on the use of copper in wood impregnation. At present, there is no adequate alternative to this copper use, which requires extensive research in both Norway and Europe and has been confirmed by the SFT. A charge will only result in an increase in production costs, without any special environmental impact, because there is no alternative to the copper. The Committee on Energy and the Environment stated in its position that it would be possible for the Government to assess instruments other than prohibitions and charges. What are the instruments that the Council of State sees as possible in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1432	After all, we have a national target to significantly reduce copper emissions by 2010. In order to achieve the objective of significantly reducing copper, additional instruments are needed. We are carrying out the assessment of the instruments that need to be implemented. In this case, both prohibitions and charges, or combination of prohibitions and charges, are relevant. But it is also important that more research needs to be done on non-polluting alternatives, and there is also a job that needs to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1440	Like many others, I am pleased that a total accumulation agrees with the main principles set out in this Communication. If we're going to achieve a non-toxic environment, I think that's an important prerequisite. But it also means that the message represents a good deal of work, how important goals and challenges have been drawn up and presented. This is before today mentioned by many, so I'm not going to repeat exactly that. I would like to start by saying that a lot of good work has been done to limit emissions and the consequences of chemical substances in Norway already. The reduction of hazardous and toxic substances has historically emerged in many places, I think, in combination with stricter regulation from the authorities, a committed environmental movement and a business that has become more and more concerned with its own reputation. I think that's important. Not least I see this in my own region, which I think is a good example of that. I remember well the actions of the environmental movement, and I remember well the efforts of the authorities and demands for regulation. So now we see the consequences of the efforts of industry and society as a whole. That's good, and that's proof that we can do a lot together, and that it's useful. I think that history's knowledge shows us, despite today's and tomorrow's challenges, that we can achieve a lot, and that if we choose to gather, we can lay the foundation for a future with a non-toxic environment. Then there are many challenges. One of them is pointed out, namely to clean up a seabed that has been contaminated for many years. The Communication states clearly and emphatically that the action plans defined should be implemented. There is an incredibly important work to be done, and there is quite a lot of work to be done. I have the greatest confidence that both the Government and the Storting will follow up that work in the future. Another challenge is to provide adequate information on dangerous substances and chemical substances. I also think making the information more widely available will be of importance. It will raise awareness, and it will make people more aware of the consequences of the use of chemical substances. Not least, it is important for a leading commodity discussion and attitude. I believe that improving public access to information is an important work – which is not mentioned in the Communication, but which needs to be done to improve the situation. Another point, also mentioned by several, is the relationship with REACH. The Communication states that Norway will assess any need for derogations through adaptations to the EEA Agreement. The Minister for the Environment has already mentioned this. I just want to stress what Mr. Asmund Kristoffersen said earlier today, that any race to get some exemptions from REACH could be a risk sport, especially given the urgency of implementing it. Five months have passed since the notification, and it is half a month left before the REACH Regulation comes into force directly to businesses and EU authorities, i.e. from 1 June 2007. In Norway, therefore, the REACH Regulation does not have direct effect, but must first be formally incorporated into the EEA Agreement, and this is urgent. The legislation relating to REACH is very complex and complex. The greatest burdens are linked to the registration of substances. Registration is the responsibility of EU companies producing chemical substances in metals, minerals and other natural substances or importing in pure form or preparations into the EU. Users of chemical products are not responsible for registration. However, as long as REACH is not part of the EEA, Norwegian export companies’ customers within the EU will be importers of the substances. Thus, they will have the formal obligation to register all substances contained in the imported products. They can avoid this by switching to a supplier within the EU, but we hope that it will not. It is therefore important for the competitive situation of Norwegian export companies that we become part of the REACH system and that we become it quickly. It's urgent a clarification. I am reassured by what the Minister for the Environment has now said, when she has said that this is a priority task for the Government. It is an important issue for Norwegian export companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1477	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to 3 lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and 5 lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1490	Then we have reached the final round on the protection and development of wild salmon stocks and will now adopt the completion of national salmon rivers and salmon fjords. The government's presentation of the proposition just before Christmas did not create the large media storages, and I interpret it so that both the environmental organisations and the marine industries are well pleased with the content of the proposition. There is also not much disagreement in the Committee, which is reflected in the opinion. So I thank the Committee for a good cooperation. Some parties had wanted an evaluation of the first round before going to the final phase, but the signals from the farming industry went to the opposite. They'd be done with the whole process as soon as possible. Time was already overripe, and they would have predictability in the industry. Norway now ends up with 52 salmon rivers and 29 salmon fjords, which is about the number that the Villaks Committee proposed in its NOU 1999:9 For salmon for all can no one do? St. pp. No 32 for 2006-2007 is a well-developed proposition involving several departments. In my opinion, it is well-balanced between environmental measures to preserve the most productive populations of wild fauna and flora, and especially the farming industry. We know that the situation of the wild species is serious in large parts of the species' range, and then it is important to put resources and instruments in place to stop further loss of strains. In particular, the protection regime shall ensure special protection for wild salmon. The entire Committee agrees that it is important to take care of the Atlantic wild species, where Norway has a major international responsibility for the future operation of tourist industries in the districts, recreational fishing and access to genetic material for the farming industry. The Progress Party and the Right have written a statement of objections to the majority's view that the protection of the national salmon rivers and fjords should be permanent. Nothing thing lasts forever, I say now. If new technologies, knowledge and new general framework conditions provide for changes to the legislation governing the management of the watercourses and fjords, this may lead to a new review. Otherwise, the entire scheme shall be evaluated by 2017. Many conditions affect the development of the wild species, and we need to take some action. These include: measures in the farming industry, gyro control, watercourse measures, liming, research and monitoring. Escape of farmed salmon is one of the greatest threats to the wild species. Unfortunately, the number of escapes is increasing from year to year, so that there is now as much salmon from farms as there are wild salmon in Norwegian rivers. Last year, the Directorate of Fisheries was informed that 790,000 salmon and trout had escaped. In addition, there may be large numbers of darkness. This is the main environmental problem for the farming industry, and it is therefore important that the entire Committee is aware that it needs to take action, both in the form of research and in the form of assessing needs and opportunities related to future technologies and forms of production. DNA tracking, as developed by the Marine Research Institute, can be a breakthrough in tracing back to escaped farmed fish. To date, this measure has shown good results. We all know that access to relevant knowledge is essential in order to make the right decisions. It is also true in this case. In the management of wild-axis resources, there is a lot of knowledge, but also knowledge gaps, and rarely is it a unique phase response. But everyone can learn, and that's what the Knowledge Center for Laks and the Water Environment in Namsos is going to contribute. The purpose of the Foundation is to contribute to increased knowledge of salmon populations as a basis for sustainable management and industrial exploitation. They shall provide unwarranted results where no one can doubt their objectivity. The Management Board is broadly composed of scientists, landowners and representatives from the aquaculture industry, as well as those who have salmon fishing as an industry and a hobby. I am proud to say that the red-green government grants today, in the revised national budget, NOK 900,000 to this foundation. This is part of the development of the center. We all know the problems with Gyrodactylus salaris. In addition to escaped farmed salmon, this parasite is one of the most serious threats to the wild species. It came to Norway in 1975 from Sweden under our authority and has since been detected throughout 46 watercourses. After extensive control, it is now in 20 watercourses. No government has previously invested as much in the fight against gyro as the sitting government. The villa must be protected and the watercourses cleaned for the parasite. The work is under way in the Steinkjær watercourse, and the next major measure is the Wefsna in Northern Ireland. This has taken this government seriously, and today it grants 20 million in the revised national budget. NOK in addition to the SEK 31 million. kr that was granted in the budget for this year. Now the job is to be done. Side-river tissues shall be cleaned in such a way that the wild-axis is restored. Major natural and industrial experiences will be possible in the future. Although the Wefsna was protected against hydropower expansion by the Soria Moria Declaration, the term «lax watercourses» is not an obstacle to hydropower expansion. The entire Committee is pleased that the Government believes that power development which does not have a significant impact on salmon can be implemented. In fact, some watercourses are among the best salmon watercourses, because by regulation it is possible to smooth the watercourse so that no part of the watercourse is dried, even with low rainfall. We hope that climate change does not mean the drying of the protected watercourses in the future. With regard to the development of nutrition in our 29 salmon fjords, there are slightly different opinions of the parties in the Committee on the strictness of the rules for this. It is a fact that the first salmon fjords were created only to protect the wild axis from breeding. This is still the case, but one will be able to operate with other activities in salmon fjords — while protecting the wild species. So a little bit about the individual fjords. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees to move Fördefjorden’s ‘external limit back to the former temporary protection zone’. [[...]] Following consultations with various actors from Sogn and Fjordane, it was necessary to move the border, so that the Floken Fish Farm – owned and operated by four families – will be outside the outer limit of the salmon fjord and have future development opportunities, in line with the other farming facilities in the fjord. This is good environmental and district policy. In retrospect, the Committee has received a number of enquiries from farmers in Sandsfjorden. In the case of this fjord, it may appear that incorrect information is given in the proposition. This is probably something the Council of State would say about. Proposal No. 8 – in 12 hours – from the Progress Party, moving the border in Sandsfjord, the red-greens will not support. This is a limit proposed by the Directorate for Nature Management as early as 2003. It has never been up to discussion, nor in hearings. The proposition specifies: ‘The production of stockfish in Sandsfjorden shall be ensured to allow for the necessary development in line with amended national framework conditions for stockfish farms.’ I therefore believe that the facilities in Sandsfjorden still have development opportunities. The Tanafjord in Finnmark will in the future be a farming-free fjord. This means that, in the context of the revised national budget, the Government will provide Gamvik with 5 million. kr in conversion funds – as compensation. Finally, the Committee's recommendation for a decision contains the original limit in the Fördefjord, set by the Government. This limit is deleted, cf. what is set below V. From now on, the current outer limit of the Vørdefjord as salmon fjord will be equal to ‘the former temporary protection zone in the fjord’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1557	I had been glad that the government was going to put forward a staging proposition on wild axes. I had hoped it would contain an ambitious effort to strengthen the wild axis. The proposition we're dealing with today doesn't. 150 years ago, Atlantic salmon was found in rich monks in Norway, North America, Iceland, the British Isles, Russia and Sweden. Norway has always had many strong salmon strains, but populations in most other salmon countries have been severely reduced. Thus, the preservation of the Norwegian wild species has gained relatively greater international importance. However, it is important to point out that there is no evidence to suggest that salmon as a species is threatened in Norway. A few of the populations, on the other hand, are extinct, and some are threatened. We all share a shared responsibility to help correct this. Each salmon fairy has its own genetically unique herd. In Norway, the vast majority of salmon populations share the same proportion after about one year. a year as salmon juvenile in a river travels on a multi-annual economic migration in the Great Sea. The fact that salmon is dependent on both the sea and on freshwater in rivers is a contributing reason why the number of populations of Atlantic salmon is strongly reduced internationally and that other populations are weakened. There are different conditions that could threaten different watercourses. It's e.g.\t\t You can change the industrial and agri-environmental acidification adapted watercourse management overtaxation both in rivers and in marine chemicals, farmed salmon and – not least – the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris Of these threats, watercourse development in the 1930s and up to the 1960s is the cause of the vast majority of extinctions, while acidification and gyro are probably the cause of a few of the most serious cases. Then, as a representative of the Progress Party, I am proud to see that the struggle my party has waged in the Storting to increase the appropriations for liming acidified watercourses – in addition to reduced sulphur emissions from industry in Europe – has led to the fact that acidification as a cause of salmon population loss will probably be avoided in the future. However, there is reason to point out that many of the watercourses in the Bays and the West that are limed today still have to be limed for many years before they can finally be freshened. Hydropower expansion, as it was done in the first part of the last century, is the main reason why populations of wild species are endangered or have been eradicated. These hydropower plants were built at a time when little was known about the ecological consequences of the expansion and at a time when industry’s power needs overshadowed most other considerations. At the same time, this happened using a completely different technology from that currently available. Today, the level of knowledge is quite different, and expansions can happen in many places without worsening the growth and spawning conditions of the wild species in the river. In some cases this may even lead to better conditions for salmon. In this context, I would like to give my support to the Government that it communicates in the proposition that it will grant permission for watercourse development, if it does not significantly adversely affect the living conditions of salmon in the river. But I don't fully understand what biological conditions justify that the administration regime for the Salmon's feeding room, the river, is less strict than the management regime for the fjords, where the salmon just passes in a few days. In my opinion, a regime in which both in the river and in the sea permits everything that is not harmful to the salmon will be the right thing – as is also evident from the setting. Knowledge of how the power build affects salmon and of how both new and old plants should be designed is important. Many strong trade unions in Norway know a lot about salmon biology. With regard to knowledge of the impact of river intervention on salmon, there is a need to bring forward the environments associated with the Vasstract Laboratory in Trondheim and the NINA Wildax Research Station at Ims in Rogaland. In order to say something about how river intervention affects salmon, you depend on two conditions. One is the ability to model the interventions, which can be done at the Vasstract Laboratory. The second is the ability — using scientific instruments — to study salmon as it occurs in its natural biotopes, the river. That's what they do at the research station at Ims. Both of these environments represent the top international class and will be important contributors to the knowledge lost management needs in the future. Knowledge from these environments is needed in order to design effective measures to strengthen the wild-axis and to facilitate environmentally adapted power generation – and also in relation to how the upcoming concession audits can best be carried out. These professional environments are also important in relation to the evaluation of the Government’s work on the wild species. Let me point out that I am much more comfortable with the approach of the great majority than with the Government's approach to the evaluation. In St. prp. No 32 is shown to be primarily protected by fjords and rivers to be evaluated. I am pleased that the bulk of the population in the committee setting makes it clear that a total increase wants a more ambitious approach: ‘All the threat factors of the wild species must be monitored in a sufficient number of national salmon rivers and fjords as well as in a sufficient number of fjords and watercourses that are not part of the scheme.’ I'm very pleased with this. It shows that the government at least wants to bet on research around the wild. Of all the threat factors I have mentioned so far, there is only one factor that is close to having the potential to eradicate all salmon in Norwegian streams. It's the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. There is also reason to recall that the parasite does not exist naturally in Norwegian fauna, and that it was the state, through the release of gyroin infected salmon from the state breeding station on Sunndalsøra, which introduced gyro into Norwegian nature. The progress party is of the clear opinion that this fact should guarantee that the state should also use all resources to eradicate the gyro from Norwegian nature. In the last period, all the three-day government parties accused the Bondevik II government of emergency in the fight against gyro. In particular, state councillor Helen Bjørnøy's party, SV, was an aggressive pusher to raise the appropriations to an acceptable level. Today’s presentation of the revised national budget suggests that the promises are not completely forgotten, but the majority today refuse to follow up the so-called ‘ideal plan’ to the Directorate for Nature Management for the Control of Gyro. The 2002 plan largely takes account of the socio-economic situation and the risk of transmission of infectious diseases. The estimates underlying the plan show that there are some significant socio-economic gains to be gained from strengthening the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris. There are two great paradoxes in relation to gyro and today's setting. One paradox is that we have just been told by the Council of State that the treatment of the Steinkjær watercourse for budgetary reasons will not be completed this year either. The Steinkjær watercourse has been infected for more than 30 years. The first years of the 1970s were the three rivers of the Steinkjær River, among the best salmon rivers in the country. The rivers are now practically empty for salmon. Paradox number two is that today we will decide to protect the Weasel. In Wefsna, there has not been any successful emigration of smolt due to gyro for years. Even after the presentation of the revised national budget today, with today’s appropriations for combating gyro, we have never been able to freshen up. In addition, gyro can spread from one watercourse to another. Given that Mid-Norway, with Helgeland, contains five of the ten most potent salmon streams in Norway, and that two of them are infected by gyro, there is reason to be concerned. If the gyro spreads from the Weefsnavassläge and Steinkjærvassläge to Namsen or Gaula, there can be no doubt about where the responsibility lies. The majority's lack of ambition and willingness to bet is, in my opinion, a game of chance and contrasts with the same majority's belief in passive land protection as an environmental policy instrument. Perhaps Norwegian wild salmon had been better served with a proper gyro treatment in Vefsna than protecting it. The power situation in Central Norway and Norwegian renewable energy production had at least been better served by gyro control than by protection. I'm going to use the rest of my post to talk about fjord protection. I must begin by pointing out that in relation to the fjords that the Directorate of Nature Management has investigated, the Government chose to preserve mainly those fjords that have the highest value for the farming industry. The fact is that after today we get less land protection than we had before, and that's good. However, the government was in favour of protecting two fjords where protection would have a very adverse impact on the farming industry. One of these fjords is Fördefjorden. I would like to commend the case rapporteur and the majority for a unanimous increase today in order to move the border inwards into the fjord, so that the Flakes' Fish Farm is located outside the protection area. The other area that is being hit is the Sandsfjord in Rogaland. Today, most of the coast of Rogaland is protected. From now on, there will be very limited growth potential for the farming industry in the county. One of the companies hit is Erfjord Stamfisk. The company produces eggs and juveniles for the farming industry throughout the West. The Progress Party is today promoting a proposal we unfortunately could not be involved in the Committee's work. If the proposal is given a majority today, the Sandsfjord, plus a few objectives outside the fjord, will not be protected. Just in this small area is one of Erfjord's stocks. If our proposal is not adopted, the production of eggs from Erfjord Stemfisk will become more vulnerable, and the risk of production failure will increase. Moving the border as we propose today will have no negative consequences either for the wild species or for other environmental considerations. Stockfish sites are known to operate under much stricter rules than common fish sites. At the same time, it is a fact that the industry has been hit by a lack of smolt. Given that the representatives Tore Nordtun and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa in the 2005 election campaign promised that the farming industry in Rogaland should not be subjected to further protection, our proposal is a tiny patch on the wound for those who are now getting their jobs protected. The other fjords, with the exception of some area, have no major negative impact on existing local businesses, and that is good. The vast majority of protected fjords have been protected since 1989. At that time, the Government introduced temporary protection zones for salmonids, while some other areas were protected for the first time in 2002 by the Stortinge treatment of national salmon fjords. During this period, it has never been demonstrated that passive land protection is a rigorous instrument. In spite of this, the majority today is turning a blind eye to a proposal to bind large areas of the Norwegian coast against the cultivation of anadrom salmonids. The Directorate for Nature Management points out that aquaculture is a threat to some salmon strains in the light of two factors: the escape and spread of salmonids. Escape has been a major problem in recent years. In fact, the trend is that an ever lower proportion of fish produced escapes, but due to a large increase in production, overall escape rates have not fallen significantly. Unfortunately, the escape rates for the last two years have been far above normal, and that's not lucky. It is therefore important that both the Storting and the Government focus strongly on the fight against escape. I expect this government's strong rhetoric around this to be rediscovered in the budget for 2008, in the form of increased appropriations for the State's Escape Commission. However, there is reason to point out that there is no evidence that the protection of the feathers leads to fewer escapes, rather the opposite. Similarly, it is important to point out that salmon salmon is completely natural. But when the concentration of salmonnus on the emigrating smolt becomes too high, it will have reduced survival. But then it is that wild smolt leaves the rivers at the same time as the spring solution and when the flow of water in the rivers is at its greatest. This means that the salinity of many of the protected and planned protected feathers at this time of year is so low that the lusa just dies, and there is virtually no salinity in the mermaids. But sometimes we know that smolts meet plants with relatively high concentrations of salmonnus. Therefore, instead of putting obstacles in the way of the breeding establishment, it is appropriate to impose stricter requirements for the control of salmonids during the period of wild smolt passing through the farms. The proposal we are making on this particular issue today is not being adopted, but I hope that the Council of State will take this proposal into account when she is going to continue to work on the regulation on soil protection. So I would like to end by saying that Norwegian aquaculture is growing, contrary to the wishes of the Government – I would almost say – have. More and more fish are produced with increasing profitability. At the same time, it is an industry that by its very nature is district friendly. It is not possible to centralize a breeding pain. If the industry is to continue to grow as a profitable district industry, it must have room to grow. Good locations are the main factor in ensuring further growth and profitability. Many of the best sites are in the fjords, protected from the weather and wind and with high fresh water content in the water. Nearly 50,000 people have income related to aquaculture in Norway, each of which makes a contribution to the value creation of more than NOK 600 000. In the case of food production, farming is twice as large as agriculture, without a single subsidy crown being granted. The aquaculture industry may become one of the heirs of the oil industry if we give it the opportunity. For this reason, it is important for me to point out that Norwegian aquaculture is gradually about much more than the breeding of anadrom salmonids. I hope that during the day we will be able to clarify that farming of marine fish and land-based smolt plants will develop freely within the limits of the aquaculture law, even if they are within national salmon fjords. As regards the preservation of the wild game, it is said that the matter we are dealing with here today is not an ambitious effort to raise the wild game. What we are dealing with here today, on the other hand, is an illustration that the Government believes that the main environmental policy instrument is passive land protection. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is wrong. When the government parties categorically decide that the protection to be adopted should be permanent – now the case rapporteur modified this somewhat – it is easy to understand why the government was not very interested in a thorough evaluation of the impact of the various threat factors on the wild species. Today, the government chooses again to sacrifice the farming industry in a game to act as a force for saving the wild species and to return to Norway as an environmental nation. I have to say that I had been more impressed by the Government and the majority had been more concrete in relation to which active instruments the Government itself is going to use to strengthen the wild. That is why I am promoting the proposals in the position to which the Group of the European People's Party is advocating, the proposals on which we stand alone, and the proposal that has been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1660	The representative Tord Lien has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1663	It's a big and important thing we have to deal with today. Let me just start by giving honor to the case rapporteur for her good work on this matter. I'm not going to put anything more into it than that it could have gone even more in the wrong direction than what the Right really would have imagined with – maybe – another case rapporteur. But that's not what was my biggest point in this debate. Norwegian salmon industry is, in fact, a modern industrial venture in a class to which almost no other part of the world exists, which in a few years has become an economic locomotive which represents a significant development along the Norwegian coast and which has produced sustainable results which now show that the wild fish industry has been passed on to the market in economic strength. Who really could have thought that? And who was it like at the 1991/1992 FOS bankruptcy – when they produced around 100,000 tonnes and explained this with strict state governance mechanisms as evidence of overproduction – could believe that today almost 700,000 tonnes would be seen in Norwegian production? Therefore, this is an important matter, where we see that this industry not only has the threat hanging over it with claims that one might be the main cause of the threat to the wild caught stock, but we see all the other threats to which this industry is exposed, not least in the market, among other things. is equipped with the worst export conditions available to any industry in this country. And we see – if not daily, as monthly – market threats that make this industry truly not only have challenges to produce the best quality as you do, the most environmentally robust as you do, and at the best possible price as you do, but also market threats in terms of anti-dumping, out of the US market and countless such attempts from the EU market. And we see today how the situation is vis-à-vis the Russian market. As the proposition points out, the reason for smaller wild breeds in Norway is multiple. It points to acidification of watercourses, regulation of watercourses, salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris, adverse growing conditions in the Atlantic and probably also salmonnus, which fortunately reduces. Nevertheless, the Ministry chooses to propose measures that are largely targeted at the farming industry, a different area from what the administration itself says has created problems. There is therefore every reason to stop a bit and ask some critical questions. The marine industry is likely to tolerate being misguided stigmatised as the cause of low wild salmon population, but the wild salmon industry is scarcely able to have a poor consistent management and a poor consistent indication of what is its greatest threat. Unbundling of very large areas, to which rounds of two now contribute, obviously offers less development opportunities and less income, which, on the other hand, are hardly compensated with increased contributions to get rid of the other alternative threats to the wild axis that are also pointed out in the proposition. The purpose of the establishment of national watercourses and fjords was to preserve the Atlantic wildfish stock against the threats posed by salmon farming. In particular, the threats they wanted to protect against the wild species were salmontus around the farms and genetic interference caused by the escapes of farmed salmon. After the establishment of national salmon fjords and watercourses, trade unions have raised objections to the effect of the type of protection against watercourse and fjord regulation. The purpose of an evaluation is to see – as we advocate – whether national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords are a consistent tool to protect the Atlantic wild axis in relation to other relevant instruments, before possibly continuing the next round of national salmon watercourses and fjords. Of course, conservation of the Atlantic wild species is very important for the conservation of biodiversity. Because Norway has a unique presence of wild species and is considered a core area for this species, Norway has a special responsibility for the conservation of the Atlantic wild species. Let me also say that the national salmon rivers and fjords were introduced as one measure to preserve the Atlantic wild breeds in Norway. In addition, types of land protection have previously been mentioned in order to limit the presence of the farming industry in fjords and in the vicinity of the outlets of the watercourses, such as: temporary hedged zones. These arrangements are comprehensive and have a significant impact on those involved. No evaluation of this has at any time been carried out which suggests that there are important and correct measures in relation to the objective of keeping the wildstock that has been implemented. Therefore, there is also reason in this case to ask several major and important questions. Therefore, the main content of the proposition is opposite to that of the right. We will have carried out an evaluation of round one with salmon fjords. The size is otherwise good at requiring evaluation of almost every case before moving on and implementing new regulations in other areas. It is only through an evaluation that we will get answers to the complicated questions that everyone really needs to ask on this matter. When we know that this evaluation is now being put into place sometime in 2017, I'm not going to say that we have a blind path towards the goal, but we should take more time and use more resources to evaluate the comprehensive first round. As everyone has been involved in previous articles, escape is a major problem. Here the industry has a special responsibility to bring about the massive escape. I think we all expect an improvement here and better results than what you've been able to show so far. Let me also say that we are very pleased that the Fördefjord has not suffered the fate proposed by the Government. I think that in the Right we feel a slightly larger fatherhood of the decision that the Stortinget is making today, than the government parties have reason to do, but that doesn't have to be the main point. The point is that now the boundaries have also moved out to where they were, at the previous boundary of the securing zones, i.e. the line Flokenset-Hooreneset. I guess we're all very happy about that. The main point with the protection of watercourses and fjords is to take care of the wildstock along the coast. Protection has created a great deal of uncertainty for nutritionists, and it is expensive. The industry, together with the authorities, has taken active action to reduce escape and to reduce lice pressure. This is an important work that must continue. The research environment that has worked on this issue is therefore also uncertain as to whether the protection of fjords is the right way to protect the wild species. Therefore, an evaluation is needed before new rounds of salmon fjords are introduced. I must also add that we support the proposals of the Progress Party on the Sandsfjord in Rogaland. Let me conclude, so no one should misunderstand, stress that we have to do what is possible to protect the wildax strain. It is the basis for growing salmon around the world and ensures important outdoor and industrial interests along the rivers. Norway has, as I said, an international responsibility for the best possible management of this natural heritage. However, there is no room for the symbolism policy and agitation that this matter is closest to. It is important that we are aware of the measures that are being put in place. We also need to be able to demand that the administration dissociate itself from the many special interests that hold one or more hands on these issues, that you relate to the knowledge that you have and that you use to get a basis for making the right decisions in this case. Therefore, we should have taken the break with an evaluation of round one before we started on round two.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1689	Villaksen is a species of Norway that has a special responsibility for it. In Northern Europe, we are among those with several salmon strains that have it reasonably well, historically. In the past, the prevalence of salmon, many of which have been involved, was much greater. In many places, the wilderness axis is gone. In Norway, there are also challenges related to proper management of the wild species. We originally had 446 populations. One third of them are now either lost, threatened by extinction or considered very vulnerable. We can't afford to lose any more of the wild breeds that we have a responsibility, even internationally, to manage. There's a lot of threats to the wild stocks. Historically, acid rain has helped to eradicate 25 of these strains. 25 populations disappeared due to pollution and we still spend a lot of money on the Ministry of the Environment's budget on liming to prevent more populations from moving along the same path. Hydropower expansion has also caused us to lose salmon stocks. There were exterminated or vulnerable or endangered species in 35 watercourses due to expansion. Gyro is one of the big threats to the wilderness today. That is why we are proud that, in the revised national budget today, we have increased the funds to combat gyro by 20 million. kr, because we know that fighting gyro is an environmental battle we can win. The representative, Tord Lien, said that we had remembered some election vows. We haven't just remembered any of the election vows, we're fulfilling what's the ideal plan in relation to the Directorate of Nature Management, with the decision we're making. And there's going to be a promise that I think the opposition and also Tord Lien inside had not thought that we were able to make in this connection. What's happening is a significant rise for the wild axis. Breeding is a threat to the wild. It is serious when the number of escaped farmed salmon in recent years is as high as that of wild salmon to the Norwegian watercourses in one year. That means half of what we can see is farmed salmon. The salmon problem is a chapter by itself, but the most serious thing is the genetic contamination that makes it possible for us not to get rid of the escape, we will have a situation where we have a large, slightly diffuse genetic stock that will be much more vulnerable and much more difficult to manage, and that will lose some of the peculiarities of salmon and some of the most fascinating things about it, namely that it grows up in a river and comes back and spawns in the same river. The proposal contains measures in all areas where salmon is at risk. It's important to us. But it is that we have one main measure, and the main measure is to give the wild species breathing space, by taking it into account primarily in some watercourses and fjords through the establishment of the national salmon fjords and salmon rivers. However, in this context, I would be allowed to say that with the adoption of the proposal for the completion of national salmon fjords and salmon streams, the farming industry will have a significant area to carry out its activities. They have worked hard to get it, and I am glad that the majority then stresses that it is the industry itself a heavy responsibility to reduce the number of escaped farmed salmon. I am also pleased that the majority say that, without a significant decrease in the number of escaped salmon from the farming industry, new and more stringent instruments must be put in place. There is no acceptable situation with such a high number of escapes, and even if the farming industry makes repeated assurances that they will get rid of it, the statistics show the opposite. Now we're done with the process of creating salmon fjords, and we're saying with this that we don't see a rapid change, we have to come up with completely new and more stringent instruments. We cannot live with the threat to the wild stocks today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1710	The Atlantic Wildax strain has been greatly reduced. The northern European salmon strains have also been reduced. This is the background for the Christian People's Party in the Bondevik II government to introduce land protection for wild breeds by establishing national salmon rivers and salmon fjords. The proposal of the Bondevik II government in 2003 was supported by the Stortinget. Now today's government is following up with the finalisation of this process, with proposals for the protection of new 15 salmon rivers and 8 new salmon fjords. In total, we are up to 52 salmon streams and 29 salmon fjords. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now completing the process of establishing national salmon rivers and salmon fjords. The protection now includes three-quarters of Norway’s total wild-axis resource. We believe that this area protection is a proper and necessary measure. In the debate we have seen predictable and traditional contradictions between the farming industry and river fishermen and landowners. However, the work of the Committee has shown that the parties have now largely accepted the scope of the proposed protection. The main score was clearly in 2003. Protection through salmon watercourses and salmon fjords is an important measure, but not the only thing needed to achieve a more sustainable management of the wild species. Other measures also need to be taken. The Christian People's Party has therefore not been most concerned with the boundaries of the protection zones, as the proposal of the Government has been well justified on this point. The Christian People's Party has participated in an adjustment in Førdefjorden based on the local recordings we have received. But there are also other measures that are important and that we have been concerned about. The aim is to limit the escape from salmon farms, the control of the salmon and the parasite gyro, and to prevent interference with watercourses that may affect spawning conditions. It is not easy to prevent escape, but the Christian People's Party is pleased that the farming industry itself is actively involved in the work of a zero vision for escape. We should now be willing to initiate DNA detection of salmon. This is possible and will have the greatest impact on the impact of farmed salmon on the wild salmon strain. It may also be an instrument for continuing the work of the breeding industry against escape, although they have a high economic interest in preventing escape. Furthermore, it is important to maintain the work against gyro, and the Christian People's Party expects the Government to apply new methods that have good effect. Today, it is nice to see this important item raised in the budget as revised. To sum up, the Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now completing the work of establishing national salmon rivers and salmon fjords. We're behind the setting at this point. But we are still impatient about the follow-up to the fight against gyro and the prevention of escape. We are together with the minority on their own proposals on these two points.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1723	Today, we are completing work on the national salmon fjords and the salmon rivers, and we are pleased with that. This provides safe and predictable framework conditions not only for the farming industry but also for industries other than the farming industry. There has been a lot of talk about this, but there is reason to remember that inland fishing and river fishing and the resources that the salmon represent in the watercourses are significant and probably also industries that have significant growth potential in the future. We recognise the need to introduce regulations to protect the North Atlantic Wildax strain. As many have experienced, this strain has had a negative development in recent years, and Norway is one of the last countries with significant strains. It's relatively good here, but it also makes us have a better starting point for success than what you have elsewhere. Through this treatment, the farming industry will have increased access to land and will have a very clear and clear framework for the activity to be carried out. If you take into account the reactions that have occurred after this proposal was submitted, I would probably go as far as to say that it is positively received in most camps. I think we should take that as a sign of good political craftsmanship in this context. It has been said that this system is permanent. That's of course true. At the same time, the mechanism will be evaluated by 2017 at the latest, and it is obvious to everyone that if this evaluation shows that there is no match between the instruments we are kneeling through this scheme and the objectives we want to achieve, it will have to have implications for the design of the practical policy. Something else would be very strange. We point to a wide range of other important measures. Although this is one measure, there is no reason not to continue even harder with regard to the threat posed by gyro, with liming, the control of salmon and with the regulation of watercourses and of fishing. I want to point out in particular the risk of genetic contamination that escaped farmed salmon in this context. For a long time, we have been focusing on this problem, not least politically and together with the industry. Therefore, it is obviously disappointing to note that the number of escapes does not go down – rather on the contrary. Of course, I look forward to the setting being followed up on that point, but I think it is important to come back here quite quickly with even sharper measures if you see that you are not now getting any effect. So the message from Stortinget to the farming industry today on this question cannot be misunderstanding. Then there's a question of what this proposal should be used for. The centre lot assumes that this mainly regulates the conditions under which the proposition is made. It's not relevant, as we see it, that this should be used as a breaker bar to regulate all other types of activity and economic development around the country. We'll warn against this practice, and we reserve the right to come back to it if it turns out it's a practice. In the case of Sandsfjorden and the relationship that Lien's representative addresses, we believe that the stock farm there is being maintained, and that both Tore Nordtun and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa have their words in place, because it is said that the production growth due to changing national framework conditions should be allowed. Of course, we are also pleased that we got a unified solution in Fördefjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1742	Through his work in the Bondevik II government, the Left was involved in several measures that are important for the care of the wild. One of the measures that was important was to get protection decisions for 50 watercourses in addition to those that were already protected. Several of the watercourses on which a protective decision was taken are also affected in the setting that we are dealing with today. It was also the Bondevik II Government which established 37 national salmon rivers and 21 national salmon fjords in 2003 and at the same time laid down the basic principles of the scheme and provided guidance for the further work and handling of the case. This has now been followed up by the Stoltenberg II Government, fully in line with the pre-requisite of the 2003 broad decision. Given the history, it is therefore not unnatural that today's setting is also marked by broad consensus. This is a good and important platform for further efforts to manage salmon resources. In one area, changes were made in relation to the area and breakdown proposed by the Government. It concerns Fördefjorden, which is given a special status with monitoring of all the threat factors involved. This is a set-up that requires regular surveys, and then related to all the threat factors. This desire to give this status to Fördefjord is very much in line with what is stated in the Left's programme to have Fördefjorden as a national reference fjord, and also very well in line with what we have been working for during the Committee's examination. As mentioned by several previous speakers, there are more factors than area protection needed to do the job in relation to the wilderness axis. The control of Gyrodactylus salaris is central. That is the background to the Left proposal, on which a request is made by the Government to draw up a plan for the follow-up of gyro control by 2010. The left was dissatisfied with the investment in this area in the 2007 budget, and proposed an increase of 11 million in the budget for the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris. kr in our alternative state budget. We didn't connect to that. But it is positive that, within an adjusted, revised budget, presented today, which contains very few good news in the field of the environment, the Gyrodactylus salaris bet is reinforced by 20 million. kr. And that's good. The relationship between control of escape and care of the wild species has been mentioned. I think it's very important for the government to come up with a plan on how to follow up the work in relation to escape. There is an escape commission set up, and it is very important that it be given an independence, which makes the work done there credible. It is also important that the economic resources it needs to have be given to the Escape Commission in order to carry out its work in an appropriate manner. I would also like to point out that the liming work is important and must continue. In many watercourses good results have been achieved, and in the long term the need for appropriations here will be down. But it's important to keep the pressure up here, and so has the government in this year's budget. Another area where one has had the results of the work done relates to measures against salmonids. There has been a significant restriction, but there is still a serious threat to the wild species. So the conclusion from the Left today is that we're not in the goal of today's decision, but it's an important step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1766	When I presented the proposition about the wild axis exactly five months ago, I said that the wild axis has no strangers – just more or less good friends. The attitude in this case clearly shows that an overall political environment will contribute to an upliftment in the wild, although there are of course somewhat different opinions on the choice and use of instruments. I am therefore pleased to note that all the parties in this Chamber are good friends of the wild race, and that there is a broad consensus on a strengthened policy for the protection of this species, for which Norway has a special responsibility. It may seem like a paradox that the wild axis – despite all its good friends – is still threatened, but I believe that much of the explanation is that it is demanding to manage this species. The Villax is a hiker who encounters threats and obstacles both in the watercourses, in coastal areas and in the sea. The sum of human activities is just too much for too many of our salmon populations. We've done a lot over many years to reverse this negative development, but we have to do more. The villa means a lot to Norway. It is one of our most important natural values and has for centuries also been an important part of our cultural tradition, our nutritional basis and our quality of life. Many districts also have significant incomes from tourism and other activities related to salmon fishing. The opportunities offered by the wild species for sport fishing, recreation and nature experience are important to a large number of people in the countries around the North Atlantic. In addition, wild salmon populations are an important genetic resource for salmon farming. I am very pleased with the Committee's proposal for a decision on the completion of the system of national salmon river and salmon fjords. As a result, the entire three-quarters of the Norwegian wilderness resource will receive special protection in watercourses and fjords. I also very much appreciate the broad opening up of other measures for the protection and development of salmon populations, inter alia. enhanced control of the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris reinforced measures against salmonids and the evacuation of farmed salmonids continued liming of salmonids and the restoration of salmonids' living areas more stringent regulation in salmonids Now we've put the most important investigations behind us. The time has come to step up efforts, and as several have already mentioned, part of this is a consequence of the Government's proposal today to increase the year's budget for combating gyro by 20 million. kr. So that means that the total amount of funding is going to be 51 million. kr, and that this will ensure significantly better progress in the control work. First of all, we're going to do it in the Wefsn region and in Steinkjer. Finally, I would like to say that in three weeks' time, the annual meeting of the North Atlantic Organisation for the Protection of Wild Salmon, NASCO, will be held in the United States. The Norwegian delegation to the meeting will then inform the rest of the wild nations about Norway’s reinforced policy for the protection of wild fauna and flora. I know that they will do this well knowing that Norway, as the world's most important wild-wing country, is at the forefront of this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1806	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1809	This becomes more like a good friend of the wild axis to another. There is considerable uncertainty in the industry as to the consequences of the current handling of the case for the guidelines for the rearing of marine fish and shellfish. I wish the Council of State could now demand, to say it so, that the breeding of marine fish and shellfish will be hampered by the decision of the Stortinget today. Can the Council of State give me such confirmation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1816	I think that in terms of the process and this work that has been going on for a long time, also during the previous Bondevik administration, there is not so much concern about the farming industry in these questions. There has been close cooperation, and one has also worked closely in understanding of the need to protect the wild species. That's about. 1 600 sites linked to farming in Norway. The proposal we are talking about today affects 10 sites for the breeding of salmonids, so that it has relatively limited consequences. What we have said is, of course, that what already exists of breeding can continue, but then with some stricter requirements for action against escape, salmonnus, etc. I can rest assured that there is no great cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1825	The system for the protection of salmon fjords is permanent, it is clearly established in the proposal, and it is even emphasised from among others. the red-green lots in the settings. Should it not have started at a completely different end, when it is given the signal to bind very large coastal areas that many hope can provide for future business, balanced, sustainable business, and take a stand on the concept of «permanent protection» on the day when it was able to provide evidence that breeding activities are the main direct threat to the wild species? It would then be possible to determine whether the fjords that are now protected should be permanently protected, for the good reason that no such evidence is provided in the proposition we have for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1830	It's true that it's a permanent protection. That's important because the wild species is such a highly threatened species. The villa is an important resource for Norway for both nature and genetic reasons, but also for business interests. We are launching a monitoring programme and an evaluation that will go beyond ten years. The monitoring programme will be launched during the year, and then, of course, an important knowledge will be gained that will have a bearing on further evaluation of any new action that needs to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1837	As many people have experienced, escape is a significant problem related to the challenges we face to deal with the wild. That's why it was important for an escape commission to get to work. One has underlined the need for the Commission to be given the independence it needs in order to be able to work in a credible way, and for it to be guaranteed the economy to do the job to be done. Can the Council of States confirm that one will provide both independence and the economic space needed for the Commission to do its work in a thorough and proper manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1844	I have noticed the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. I welcome it and will deal with it with the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1849	I'm not giving up completely. The Council of State said in its first answer that there was little uncertainty in the industry, but I find that there was considerable uncertainty in the Council of State about what I was asking for. I therefore want to see whether today's decision will lead to consequences and difficulties for the farming of marine fish such as cod and halibut – i.e. not salmon fish – in national salmon fjords. Cod is probably what is most relevant in many of these fjords, and then I try again: Will today's decision lead to negative consequences for cod farming in national salmon fjords?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1856	Of course, the starting point for this proposition and for the work we've been doing for years now is that it shouldn't increase the risk of the wild. All the changes and measures put in place must not increase the risk of the wild axle to increase its loads. Then, of course, the business that does not increase the risk of wild game can exist around the different fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1864	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1867	The aim here is obvious to everyone, namely to get rules and systems that are predictable and forward-looking for this industry, which are so very important for the country and for the districts. It's an industry we believe in for the future. It has growth potential, and it produces food that can be of great benefit and importance in the future. This is also something that the government has of course seen, and lived with. That is why the Government and the Council of State are following closely in an excellent way. S. No 134 for 2002-2003, where Stortinget said some about St.prp. No 79 for 2001-2002. It was then assumed that further progress would be made and that the scheme would cover a total of about 50 national salmon rivers and their national salmon fjords. The aim is, of course, to ensure three quarters of Norway’s total wild species resource by providing some 50 of the largest and most viable salmon populations with specific protection. It's not for nothing you do it. The presence of Atlantic wild species is historically low. Total catches are now only at a quarter of the level of the 1970s. In the United States, salmon are almost eradicated and included in the list of endangered species. In Canada, populations have been reduced to such an extent that commercial fishing is no longer permitted. The southern European population complex is also very weak. That's why we also have an international responsibility to do something about this situation. If we look at the situation of the northern European populations, it's a little bit better, but here, too, the populations, as a whole, are historically weak. In Norway, catches are now at almost the same low level as in the years 1995–99 and account for less than half of the catches in the 1970s. This is serious, and this is where we have to clean up and get driving rules, so that we can still take care of the wild and the many populations. The decision on the new national salmon watercourses will not have any particular impact on other interests in the watercourses, mainly because the watercourses do not have realistic hydropower projects that would be detrimental to the wild axis. I think that's also important to include in this context. Seven of the proposed watercourses result in a national salmon fjord in which the relationship with the farmed interests has already been established. If we take a look at the new national salmon watercourses, and jame them with hydroelectric projects in rivers in the Total Plan that are not protected or that are investigated for protection, they will not be a hindrance here either. You can live in a good interaction and get this done. We also see watercourses today where this combination goes very well when we only have driving rules, and we also see that the stock is taking care of itself. I would also like to address a matter in the area from which I come, namely Sandsfjorden. I see that the Progress Party has a proposal here to regulate the boundaries of Sandsfjorden. This is a proposal that we cannot support. We've been familiar with Sandsfjorden's development for a long time. It is now being expanded somewhat in relation to the existing hedging zone. There are three fish-farmed areas with salmonids and a stock-fishing site established in this area, and it is clearly stated in the proposition: ‘The production of stockfish in Sandsfjorden shall be ensured to allow for the necessary development in line with the amended national framework conditions for stockfish farms.’» I think that is a very good proposal. This is a good view of stockfish production, which is so important for the further production of farmed fish. In the case of the locations that are ‘little affected’ by the small border adjustment in the area, there is no need to remove these sites. One has only been ordered that new ones cannot be created in that area, and that is to the greatest extent possible to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1887	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1890	This is a very important matter for both the environment and business in large parts of our country, especially for District Norway. On the one hand, we need to ensure the protection and development of salmon populations and, on the other, we need to further develop the important farming industry. I think both the ministry and the committee have done a good and tidy job of looking at all aspects of the matter, and at the possibilities of combining the consideration of nature and the consideration of an important industry. I think it's important to set up so that these two interests can live side by side. With the large value creation provided by the breeding industry, this industry has come to be, and the discussion is no longer going on. I have a strong impression that the breeders are also good team players to find solutions that make it even safer to breed without destroying the wild axis. This is quite natural, because it won't be life for the breeding industry without the wild breeds being in good claim. The villa is a vital genetic resource for the breeding industry. I don't think there is any doubt about this, and this was also the case rapporteur and the Council of State inside their posts. The existence of the Villax is also important in many other contexts, not least for the creation of value and activity in Building Norway, which the Council of State was also involved in. I am most concerned about how we can take measures to prevent escape from breeding facilities. This is worrying for several reasons. Here it is important that governments and industry play together to find good technical solutions to prevent escape. This industry itself has knowledge that needs to be used to achieve optimum results. We need to work together here, and we need to see clear improvements here as soon as possible. Should accident occur, the industry must assume the decisive responsibility they have for immediate alerting. Technology for the detection of escaped salmon must be used as far as this is developed and must be developed further. We all have a responsibility to secure the wild game and to ensure a well-functioning breeding industry. We take this responsibility today, and this must be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1907	Today, the government is proposing a number of good measures to strengthen its efforts to preserve the wild species, and that is important and correct. In addition to new national salmon flows and salmon fjords, a broad effort is being made, including: includes reinforced measures against the evacuation of farmed salmon, better conservation of salmon their habitats and stricter regulation of salmon fisheries. It is a fact that the Atlantic wild salmon is down on a historically low level, and that a range of threats creates great uncertainty about future salmon populations. These developments need to be reversed, and today's setting of national salmon fjords is an important contribution in this way. So I'll say a little bit about my own estate, Sogn and Fjordane. My primary position, and the Labour Party in Sogn and Fjordane, has, as everyone knows, always been that with three large fjords that are already protected, we didn't want to protect our last big fjord, and we felt it was an untimely burden for a county where the farming industry is an important part of the feeding ground for several district municipalities. In addition, I represent the state that has the greatest decline in the population of the time, and there is an absolute need for forward-looking jobs to reverse this trend. But now I'm still here today and I'm 100 pst. behind the good attitude that has come, this is because one has arrived at a very good balance between the precautionary principle and protection and the industrial interests. When we move the boundaries of Fördefjord to the temporary zone, as it has been for the past 18 years, yes, then both local business and protection interests will live further side by side, just as before. It has also been important for us locally not to put too strong a band on the Engebo mountains and the extraction of rutiles there. There can also be new, forward-looking jobs. One of the main environmental arguments when it comes to Fördefjorden, has been to preserve the good and beautiful salmon eel Nausta, as well. The left side of the board went to protect. Of course, one is afraid that the escaped farmed fish will mix with the wild species. So I want to comfort everyone here that Nausta has an uphill waterfall. that the farmed salmon with its butt and round shape does not actually come up in the river to spawn, while the wild salmon with its long, smearing shape fine things to carve the foot. Finally, I would like to thank the entire Committee for good and constructive cooperation at the very end. I mean that everyone – with the Minister at the high seat – has reason to feel like a happy salmon today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1924	Norway is a pioneer in the development of modern aquaculture. Aquaculture has become one of our biggest industries. Last year, Norwegian maritime food exports reached their record level. The export value went up to over 35 billion kroner. The farmed fish was more than half. Breeding is one of our most important industries for the future. The success of the breeding industry is paradoxical enough because today we are discussing the situation of the wild species and the creation of new salmon fjords and salmon rivers. Because there is no denying that contamination and escape from farms is a threat to the populations of wild fish and that it is therefore necessary to protect the populations in important watercourses against the incorporation of farmed fish. I note that the well-balanced solution that has now been found places restrictions on the farming industry, but not so that it significantly impedes the development of the farming industry. I have a certain hope, and have confidence, that the Government and the Storting are willing to see something different on today's permanent decisions as soon as the farming industry is run-off and the waste materials from the farms have been taken care of well. New technologies are being developed and under testing. If you succeed, and the industry is using the new technology, today's restrictions will have to be seen in a very different light. For the farming industry, it is now important that there is consistency in the administrative regime to which it is added, i.e. consistency between the measures in salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. The industry fears that stricter and more absolute requirements will be imposed on the activity of the fjords, while the management of the watercourses will be tidy and discretionary. The industry is also concerned that the Government is making sure that the administration is now dealing with the decisions taken by the Stortinget and does not go beyond the level of the restrictions imposed by the Stortinget. The same applies to the limits set by the Storting for the national salmon fjords. The farming industry has now seen the font on the wall. Significant work and resources are put down to prevent escape. Still, too much fish escapes from the farms. But in this darkness there may be a bright spot when the Directorate of Nature Management in a 2006 report says that the estimated number of escaped farmed salmon in the last three years has been at its lowest level since the 1980s.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1939	When Stortinget dealt with the Finnmarks Act, the government was asked to investigate the rights of co-workers and others to fish in Finnmark. That selection is set down, and led by Carsten Smith. The Progress Party suggests in this setting to wind up hook net fishing, and they will impose strict restrictions on kilenot fishing. The progress batch here shows an impatience after making changes before the selection is selected. The size has asked for this investigation, and then it is also natural that the Storting does not make any major changes until that setting is made. The impatience of the party in this matter is incomprehensible to me. In the case of escape, we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. One is to prevent escape, and the other is to catch the already escaped salmon. Both parts require knowledge and research. There are many exciting projects in progress in both areas. In particular, I would like to refer to the committee position, where it says: «Required R & D funds should be made available to develop specially adapted fishing gear for the capture of escaped farmed salmon.» The aim of this is to protect the wild axis. There is no prevention of nutrition, on the contrary. Salmon is not synonymous with protection and difficult obstacles. National salmon fjords and salmon streams are not a negative factor in economic activity. I repeat: the aim is to protect the wild species, not to prevent nutrition. In the Committee: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members from the Right, would stress that the importance of the wild species must always be given to salmon fjords, but that different activities which do not hinder the development of the wild species must be allowed to take place in national salmon fjords.’ Existing breeding industries have development opportunities in national salmon fjords. The majority of the Committee considers that slaughterhouses already established must be able to move within the fjord and must be able to increase the slaughter volume as long as there is a reduced risk to the wild species. Norwegian salmon is an important brand for Norway. The villa gives us associations to clean and rich natural experiences, and the farmed salmon generates significant incomes and jobs. Government parties show that there is room for both in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1967	I want to say that this debate took its to the very highest degree up to the end! First, a little bit about the confusing numbers around escape. Over the last 10–15 years, there have been between 500,000 and 900 000 salmon — of course, too many. At the same time, there are 220 million individuals in Norwegian salmon regions. This means that we have an escape rate of 0.25. It's a strong improvement on what it was before. Then there was one that was so unfortunate to say that the number of salmon that escapes every year is as large as the Norwegian salmon population. Had it been the case, Norwegian salmon would have been in a serious crisis. Every year it goes out approx. 10 million melts from Norwegian salmon rivers. As far as I know, 10 million is a much higher number than 500,000. So to the gyro bet. All credit to the Government for an improvement in that area – but we are still far away from the level needed to get aluminium treated, for example. Weave, which is the next thing that stands for the turn. Maybe it's time for the salmon debate to bring in the question of whether we need to use Rotenone to a greater extent, which is a much cheaper treatment. Ola Borten Moe said that Tore Nordtun has his words in mind when it comes to protecting Sandsfjord. When Tore Nordtun said in the election campaign that no more premises in Rogaland should be protected, I think it can be said that Tore Nordtun today has no words at all. I can also make the Workers' Party and Tore Nordtun aware that there are two concessions for stem fish and two sites that are protected, not one, that representatives from the Workers' Party have stated. And then you talk about constraints on the industry and say that for the existing industries, it doesn't have very much negative consequences. No, and if I had stood here and only been occupied with industries that exist in Norwegian districts, I would have taken it with crushing calm. The problem is that protection prevents any possibility of growth and development in these areas. That's the problem, not that those who are there today get very big problems. Some problems they have, but the big problem is that you stop the possibility of growth in the industry. I think that's a shame. Then for salmon fishing. I can't for my own life understand that the salmon will get a little less away if it's caught by a single or a Northman. I can't see that hook net fishing is anything better than drift net fishing, which you used to drive in the old days. I want to hear the representative who is ready to go to the pulpit today and defend the reintroduction of drift nets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e1984	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e2000	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e2009	We are dealing with the evaluation and follow-up of the Childcare Reform, which entered into force in October 2003. The background to the reform was the need for changes in legislation that had to a large extent been designed in the 1960s and was thus based on the family pattern of the time. In the typical family of children today, both parents contribute to the family’s financial support and to home care. A child benefit system adapted to the current situation must be based on the best of the child and reflect the development of equality between men and women, so that the child’s need for association and care is shared between parents according to their opportunities. The Committee, in its comments, stressed that children’s contributions initially belong to the field of private law, stressing that the care of their own children is the responsibility of their parents, regardless of their parent’s relationship with each other. It is nevertheless the case that the public has a responsibility to ensure that both parents comply with their dependability towards the children. In this context, it was – and is – a challenge to design rules that motivate the greatest possible number of parents to arrange contributions between themselves. It seems to have worked. Today it is approx. 40 pst. finding a solution without public assistance, against between 10 pst.– 15 pst. before the reform. The starting point for the rules on contributions is to cover the dependability of children. Therefore, the cost of maintenance for each child is a key concept. It is therefore the maintenance costs to be shared between parents. On this basis, the majority of the Committee, all except the Christian People's Party, supports the repeal of the provision on supplementary contributions in cases where contributors have particularly good advice. When determining maintenance costs, account shall be taken of the fact that these vary with the age of the child. The Committee supports the amendments proposed and considers it reasonable that the calculations should relate to the standard budget of SIFO. The Committee emphasises that the child’s need for custody is shared between parents according to their financial capacity. The ability of parents to support the child means that the cost of living is shared in relation to income and in relation to what the contributor can reasonably pay. If the contribution is so high that the contributors are unable to provide for themselves, it must be assumed to compromise the cooperation between the parents and the community. There has been – and is – a broad consensus on the principle that association should have an impact on the size of the contribution. Its more cohabitation, its greater deduction from association. The government is also committed to taking into account, in the public determination of contributions, housing costs incurred by the contributor as a result of his/her relationship with the child and will calculate the increased housing costs of the contributor into the community allowance for the classes 2, 3 and 4. The majority of the committee, all except the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, join this. Various minorities in the Committee have made proposals concerning measures to combat cohabitation, automatic sharing of care and the investigation of class 2 taxation for contributors. The majority of the Committee refers to the establishment of a panel to review the Children’s Act and to the assumption that these issues are addressed in the context of the overall review of the Child Law Committee’s provisions on parental responsibility, permanent residence and association. I expect that the minority itself will explain its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e2035	Today, we are discussing the evaluation of new legislation on child contributions. There is an evaluation SV has been waiting for, because we voted against the changes that were adopted during the previous reading when changing the rules on contributions. What we were afraid of was that the new rules would increase the level of conflict and affect children's right to get together with both parents. However, the evidence shows that the reform was a necessary modernisation, on which it is now to be built. Children’s contributions belong initially to the area of private law. Caring for their own children is the responsibility of their parents, regardless of their form of life. That being said, we know that it is precisely the rules for child support that lead to much conflict, especially in relations where the level of conflict is already high. Child contributions shall be organised in such a way as to stimulate the presence of children with both their parents, to which children are entitled under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It shouldn't be the economy that governs the community. It shall be the child’s needs and the right to have association with both parents. The child allowance shall be a maintenance allowance. The contribution shall cover a general and well-kept entertainment. The income of both parents is now to be taken into account. This will mean that both parents will experience that the income ratio of the other, and not least changes in this, will have a concrete impact on their economy. SV is in line with the Government's concern about the lack of knowledge about why some children and parents lose contact with each other. We are very pleased that the Government will prioritise research resources to gain more knowledge about this and what it means for children's growth and development. Many children want the same amount of association with both parents, and they have the right to do so. It is also, as I said earlier, enshrined in the Children's Convention. It is therefore important that we establish legislation to ensure this. As I said, we are pleased that the Government has appointed a selection to carry out an overall review of the provisions of the Children's Act on parental responsibility, permanent residence and association. The selection will include, inter alia: assess the divided residence, which I personally believe is very important. For former spouses and cohabitants, agreeing to contribute privately, specifically adapted to their own situation, will be the most natural. Studies show that a large group of them with private contracts emphasises that this contributed to a mitigation of conflicts between their parents. This will again be the best thing for the child. I would like to stress that there is a great responsibility on the parents that children should not get into a situation where they feel that they have ended up in a minefield after a break-in. Parents have a great responsibility here. In today’s families with children, both parents contribute more to caring through work and also share more than previously in caring. This contributes to a greater sharing of care and care for the children after a break in life. It is therefore important that we have rules of contribution, which together contribute to good solutions for children and parents. The new legislation is based on the cost of maintenance for the child and the distribution of maintenance costs between parents according to their income. These costs include expenditure on consumption, housing costs and any expenditure on child care. The rates and templates set are subject to annual updates. SV believes it is right that the income of the contributor or the beneficiary who chooses to be at home with a child under three years of age should be subject to judgement. We think this is very important in an equality perspective. We also support the Ministry for Oral Agreements to be treated in the same way as in writing. The parties should be required to agree that they have an oral agreement on participation of a certain extent before being deducted from association. Finally, we would like to say from the SV's side that we are pleased with the evaluation that has now been carried out. We believe that these changes that are now here will provide a better starting point for parents and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e2061	After all, it is not for all governments to make proposals for changes to the rules in 2001 and to participate and evaluate them. It must be with some satisfaction, I expect, that the Council of State can see that it was correct and necessary changes that were made mainly in 2001 – with effect a little later. The starting point for us was to look at the child's need for care, that this should be shared between parents according to financial ability, and that this should be done as properly and reasonably as possible. The regulation should encourage care from both parents – and it is particularly important for the Christian People's Party. Private agreements on the contribution should also be made. Several have mentioned that this is primarily a matter of private law. That's why it was also important to facilitate that the parents could sort this out between themselves, and it actually seems that you have succeeded. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we support essentially the Government's proposals for legislative changes, with the exception of the proposal for increased deductions from association and the winding-up of the supplementary contribution. On our side, we agree that a contributor or a contributor who chooses to be at home with new children must bear the economic consequences of this choice with a new partner. The Christian People's Party also agrees that the proposed changes in travel costs of association better reflect the real costs involved. So to those points where we disagree with the government's amendments. Both during the consultation round and during the deliberation of the contribution reform, it was widely agreed that association should have an impact on the size of the contribution. Of course, co-operation entails the cost to the contributor, and the new legislation emphasises that the contributor is able to cover those costs before the contribution is determined. However, the government proposes to further increase the social security allowance by counting the living costs of the cohabitation parents for those in classes 2, 3 and 4. We know that the community allowance is a source of conflict between the parties, and on our side we believe that an additional increase may lead to more residence parents working against association on the basis of economic reasons. In addition, an even greater proportion of the burden of living will be transferred to the parent with whom the child lives most. We therefore do not support the Government's proposal for an increase in community allowances, which, as a consequence, have lower contributions and thus lower finances for the child's main caregivers. The Christian People's Party believes it is a good thing that the child gets a share in the parents' high standard of living, when that is the case. It shall also happen when the child does not live with both parents. Although the supplementary contribution goes beyond the established maintenance cost for the child, it is, in our opinion, an important principle that parents should contribute to the child’s care according to financial ability. On this basis, we cannot therefore support the Government's proposal to remove the additional contribution. I may be a little surprised by this proposal, also from the point of view of cohesion. The Progress Party is promoting proposals in which they ask the Government to come back with a separate case of automatic shared care and responsibility, which they consider to be in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The majority – and the Christian People's Party – do not support this proposal. Although divided residence works well for many children, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it is not for the best for children to judge shared care. In a new research report, from Kristin Skøsten and others, on the shared residence of children, it is concluded that shared residence can work well for many children. But the authors also conclude that it is ‘not to conclude that shared residence will work well for all or most children’. In fact, over a quarter, according to the same report, feels that there will be a conflict with the other parent even if you have as a starting point that you should cooperate. This leads to conflicts on the part of the child. I would like to say something more about that, but I see that my time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e2083	We are a long step in the right direction to get a fair contribution system in Norway. I want to commend the Council of State for the job that has been done, but I still want to point out a few things that remain so that both children and both parents can continue to have good contact after a break in life. There are more and more couples who experience a break in life, and there are more and more children who experience ‘missing’ one of their parents and becoming a weapon in a struggle for themselves. What we're going to take on is that we, as politicians, are now making it possible for Father to have a bigger and more important role in his child's first year of life, and that the relationship with both parents is already strong from a very early age. It is also necessary to take action to maintain this link, even if the adults do not live together. Norway likes to refer to the UN Conventions – in every context we do, and we will. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 9 says that children should not be separated from their parents unless this is absolutely necessary. This has been interpreted by the Progress Party as meaning that it should in principle be automatically shared parental rights. As we have said before, and as we can easily say again, we are convinced that this could prevent serious conflicts, and not, as the representative of the Christian People's Party said, will be filled with conflict. The party of progress is not of that opinion. Nor are we of the opinion that the parties are largely in conflict with each other. The vast majority of the couples are able to solve this all by themselves, and therefore it is not necessary to judge the divided residence, which was also the representative of the Christian People's Party. We're absolutely sure that the pairs are able to solve for themselves. However, Norway is obliged to facilitate the situation so that it is possible for all children living in Norway to be together with both their parents. That is why we are promoting a proposal on the matter of automatic sharing of care and responsibility in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we believe that this should be the main rule, but that the Court of Justice can, of course, disapprove of the care where the child has been subjected to care failure, abuse or sexual abuse by one of the parents. Then turn to contributions. Unfortunately, there are too many children who are not allowed to hit both of their parents after a breakup. It's always been like this, and it probably will be. But there's an opportunity to try to fix some of the things that happen, and that I get relatively many requests about. As it is now, the contribution increases if one of the parents fails to make his or her child in accordance with normal social security rules. Some still use cohabitation as an instrument to try to increase their contribution. This is something we cannot be familiar with in Norway. There is often a large amount of extra cost to contributors, because you go to the child to pick it up, without the child being there. This is bad for the contributors, but it's all, the most bad for the children, because this doesn't give them the opportunity to be with both their parents. So we hope that with the proposal available in the case, we can find concrete solutions to an absolutely hopeless problem. Finally, a little about the income from which the contribution is calculated. It is important to use real income to calculate the contribution. There are always people who do not want to give the correct income, because it results in either paying more or receiving less. It is important that as soon as you get to know such matters where one party does not report the correct income, it actually comes down hard. It's the child, no matter who does what, who gets hurt. Also fluctuating revenues from year to year can be a problem. It is important that all such things are taken into account, which may become a possible conflict between parents. We have to remember that there are no winners in a matter of breakup, and at the end of the day, the child is the one who loses the most. We have to avoid that. With this I address the proposals No. 1 and 2 on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left and the proposals No. 3, 4 and 5 on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e2102	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e2105	The Children’s Contribution Code is a challenging area, which creates a strong commitment. The central party's impression is that everyone in this room, regardless of its political colours, has been concerned about bringing together a fair code that takes care of both contributors and contributors, but above all the child in focus. A total of 400,000 children, mothers and fathers are included in this legislation, and approximately DKK 3 billion are transferred annually through this legislation. Not least on the basis of the numbers, it is important and happy that the various parties have so much managed to gather on the legislation and the changes we are dealing with here today. Most of the experience we have with the legislation adopted in 2001 has been positive. We're experiencing an increase in company, and even though this may not be possible for income for the new rules, it's at least a sign that things are going in the right direction. There is a lower level of conflict, and there is a clear increase in private contracts, from 15 pst. to 40 pst. Furthermore, it is gratifying that there is an increased trend, albeit slow, towards the fact that it is more common to live with father. It is a goal that we should approach a situation where parents cooperate as much as possible in caring for common children. However, regulatory adjustments are needed to correct the malpractices documented in the case. In view of the view of the Centre Party, we have made adaptations towards a better social profile and a more fair regulatory framework: The social security allowance for those who have a regular relationship and more is increased, assuming that they have increased the cost of building as a result of their association.The opportunity to search for additional contributions with income above NOK 675000 will be removed. That's good, because this often has the frame unfairly, especially in cases where the contributor is in a new relationship with new children. The division into sixths is lifted, so that the contributions can be better adapted to change the economy. Both parties can apply for mutual special contributions to hold confirmation. Conflict resolution in connection with reimbursement of travel expenses is improving. Those who turn to the Social Security Office for assistance in private contracts shall receive better guidance. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is important that the rest of the changes to the law and regulation are made quickly, so that those who have already waited a long time for the adjustments should not wait unnecessarily much longer. The centre party believes that the changes that are now being made will meet the objective of the new law, namely that children should share their dependants according to their financial capacity and as fair and reasonable as possible, that the legislation should encourage care by both parents, and that a private contribution agreement should be facilitated as far as possible. For the Center Party, it is in this one that, in many other matters, the best of children is the most important. We hope that with these adjustments in the law, we will do better for children and parents who come under these rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15.ana.ud2683e2143	The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to pass. The President will now cancel the meeting, and a new meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
