ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e24	An application for leave, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Morten Høglund, is submitted from the delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. The application concerns leave from 23 May to 25 May of representatives Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Christian Tybring-Gjedde to attend the OSCE Economic Conference in Andorra. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Peter N. Myhre For Telemark County: Lise Wiik
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e50	Peter N. Myhre and Lise Wiik are present and will take the seat. The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e55	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of myself, Gunnar Kvassheim and Gunvald Ludvigsen on measures to facilitate the adoption process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e60	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e66	The President will draw attention to the fact that a decision was taken in the Grand Duchy yesterday on the basis of a statement by the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy which, in the proposal for a decision, reads under II, second paragraph: ‘March 2007’ and ‘March 2013’. It shall be ‘June 2007’ and ‘June 2013’ in order to be consistent with other choices made. The President will propose that Stortinget approves this correction and corrects it in a later correct version of the setting. – No objections have been raised, and the President’s proposal has been supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e92	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e101	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has made a number of promises to its citizens in terms of health and well-being in the years to come. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we can read that the Government believes that everyone should have ‘good and equivalent health and care services’, regardless of where you live, regardless of the economy. We can read that ‘strengthen the hospital economy’ to treat more patients and reduce waiting times. It states that the Government wants to ‘ensure rehabilitation and training to all those who need it’, and it also states that the Government will ‘reduce and keep healthcare at a low level’. None of these promises from the Soria Moria Declaration are so far held by the sitting government. I had expectations that, in the context of the revised national budget, the Government had raised that there is a very serious situation that we now see in very many of the country's hospitals, where there are constant warnings of department closures, waiting lists are increasing, and downpours are a fact. It harmonizes very badly with the promises made by the Government, and it harmonizes very badly with the inadequate appropriations given by this government to the country's hospital since the Government joined. If you are to manage to reduce waiting times, you need to enable hospitals to treat more patients. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: When is he going to fulfill these promises of the Soria Moria Declaration, which many voters believed in, but which must be looked after far? Instead, it is felt that the queues are increasing, that departments are being laid down, and that the situation in many hospitals in the country is very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e108	This government is paying considerable attention to hospitals. Never before has more money been allocated to Norwegian hospitals than in this year's budget. Never before have more people been treated in Norwegian hospitals, and never before have bigger investments been made in Norwegian hospitals than this year. This means that there has been a significant investment in Norwegian hospitals, thus getting more than ever before treatment. In many areas, waiting lists have fallen. In other areas, they are stable. What we mean about hospitals is that we need two things. First of all, we need more money, and the government has secured more money. There was money in the state budget for 2007, and there was an additional allocation to the hospitals in January, of 800 million. kr, which was financed in the revised national budget, which came shortly ago, in addition to what was granted for the current year. Then we also allocated billions to Health Mid-Norway, to St. Olav's Hospital, to make big investments there, and we have contributed to financing e.g. the investments in new Ahus. In addition to new money and more money, which the government has already provided, we need to organize the hospital, health care, better. It's the combination of providing more money and, at the same time, helping health care companies organize hospitals better, which means that there'll be some changes, some places will be necessary to do things differently than before. But overall, Norway has never spent more money on health, never treated more patients than we do today. There are many unresolved problems, but it is not that it goes in the wrong direction, as the representative Jensen could give the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e117	I hope people notice that the Prime Minister is so pleased with the health service, with the country's hospital, with both treatment times and other things that he obviously has no intention of doing anything more about it. It might be an important matter in the future for people to notice – the distance between what you say in a campaign, and what you actually end up doing when you sit with power and authority to do something about it. My question concerns the following: the Prime Minister and his government promised in the Soria Moria Declaration that they would reduce the proportion of healthcare and keep them at a low level. The first thing that the government did was to provide budgets where a number of areas saw a rise in the proportion of excesses. The government's explanation for this is that these are only inflation adjustments that are quite common in budgetary terms. But it is far from being a reduced proportion that was actually promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. But I suppose the Prime Minister is pleased with that too?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e124	Firstly, it is very important that political debate does not attribute positions to the opponent he does not have. I am not satisfied with everything in the Norwegian health care system. That's exactly why I thought we needed a new policy in that area, and that's exactly why we've provided a considerable increase in funding to treat more patients. However, it is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time – both to be proud that we have now provided more money for hospitals, and that more patients are treated than ever before, and at the same time not satisfied, because there is still much to be done in many areas, for example. psychiatry, an important area of health. That's not what we're talking about. We're going to give more money to psychiatry, implement the escalation plan in the field of mental health protection. In the case of promissory notes, the adjustment in the price of promissory notes has never been counted as an increase in the proportion of promissory notes. At least it has not been the years in which the Progress Party voted in favour of government budgets. Then it was never counted as an increase. This government made sure to remove the excesses of physiotherapy on blue prescription. It was a large and important faction that the previous government was introduced and that this government has now been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e131	There will be four follow-up questions – first No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e134	As the representative Siv Jensen pointed out, the Soria Moria statement says that all those in need of rehabilitation should be offered this. The Norwegian Patient Register survey shows that last year, in 2006, the offer of rehabilitation in non-public training institutions was reduced by 16 p.m., i.e. every fifth place lost in the last year. There are reports from all parts of the country that training institutions, well established and well-established, are in the process of being strangled by the ideological instructions of the Government that health care establishments should not avail themselves of private offerings. Does this mean that the Community solutions that the Government talks so much about, the solutions that the Workers' Party and the Trade Union have jointly found are the right ones, are the only ones that apply? Is it the ideological principles that weigh more heavily than the consideration of the users?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e139	The crucial thing about rehabilitation is that as many people as possible receive rehabilitation, and the Government stands by its goal that everyone who needs it should get it. That is why I am pleased that, overall, we have never spent more money on rehabilitation than now, and that more than ever before we have been offered rehabilitation now. But there are several ways to provide rehabilitation. We have largely left it to health companies to decide for themselves whether they want to do it under their own care, or whether they want to buy rehabilitation services from private institutions. It's a combination, but overall it's strengthened. It is not crucial whether it comes from one or the other type of institution. Overall, it is essential that more people are rehabilitated. Here, too, we are not in the goal after a year and a half in government, but we are doing well and we are giving significantly more money for rehabilitation than when the Right was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e145	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e148	It is obvious that the Prime Minister has a different perception of reality than that of Sjukehus-Noreg. From all over the country, there are constant messages of concern and insecurity, of both altered and reduced hospital provision. Today, the government of the Health West will discuss the neurosurgical supply in the West. I do not expect the Prime Minister to comment on the matter, but another matter in which the Prime Minister has had a good chance of getting involved is the situation in the sea. This winter we have had two tragic deaths. 13 out of 18 helicopter calls from the hospital in the Mosjön in winter were cancelled due to poor weather. The previous government assured the people of the Sea that it would be a security-creating resource base with professionally defending health services at the Mos Sea hospital. More from the lake have contacted me because they're worried that they won't get the help they need. Can the Minister of State give an assurance to the people of the Sea that they will receive the security-creating provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e153	What I can assure you is that we are following up on what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. First of all, we need to secure all local hospitals, not shut down any local hospitals. It's going significantly further than the previous government. The other thing I can assure you is that the hospital services get more money. They have already received more money, including: to ensure a good health offer throughout the country. Even there, we can give more money to hospitals than when the Christian People's Party was in government, because the Christian People's Party spent billions of dollars reducing taxes. We say no to that. Instead, we have more money in the common cash register, among other things. to strengthen hospital provision also in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e160	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e163	There are many areas within the health system where the government can sign broken promises. We've heard of more of these today. But one area that is not mentioned is the Soria Moria promise to ensure proximity to food supply. We've heard of hospitals in Narvik, Volda and Helgeland that are going to have summer-related maternity wards for four weeks. That means that those born to these hospitals have to travel for maybe over two hours, 15 to 20 miles, to another maternity ward and another hospital to give birth. So my question to the Prime Minister is this: Is the Prime Minister comfortable with the fact that pregnant and pregnant women have become balancing posts in the health budget, and that the Soria Moria promise of proximity to food supply is systematically broken?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e170	A main reason why this government has granted several billion dollars to the hospital service has been and is that we want to maintain closeness to hospital services, including food supplies. That is also the basis for us going much further than any government has done before, when we say clearly that we should not shut down any local hospitals. Local hospitals shall be maintained. It contributes, inter alia, to: to ensure proximity to food supply. The prerequisite for ensuring a decentralised food supply is, of course, that health businesses receive more money. So, as I have shown in several of my answers, we have granted more money than ever before. That doesn't mean everything's good. There are still unresolved problems, continuing to need better work sharing and transitions. But that is: this government has provided more money for the Norwegian health service than any other government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e177	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e180	When the Prime Minister, in his follow-up to the representative Jensen, claimed that it was the previous government that introduced partialities of physiotherapy on blue prescription, the Prime Minister misinformed the Norwegian people. It was the Stoltenberg government that introduced peculiarities to such physiotherapy, even though it was the previous government that proposed it in its budget. But it was the Stoltenberg government that introduced a propensity, and then removed it again at a later rate. The information with which the Prime Minister went out here, I actually think he can fix it. Self-esteem in the health system has never been greater. From July 1st, the percentage of medical visits goes up by 5 pst. Will the Prime Minister claim that also the increase of 5 pst. is only a inflation adjustment? Or the inflation and the price adjustment are less than 5 pst. in Norwegian society? Can the Prime Minister indicate how to arrive at the 5 pst increase that will take place from 1 July?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e187	First, it is absolutely right that it was the Bondevik government that proposed in its draft budget the adjectives of physiotherapy on blue prescription. So the proposal came from there, and we used some time before we got rid of this. But it was the Bondevik government that suggested it, and we used a few months before we got rid of it again. That's why we took responsibility for financing that removal. We have discussed this matter before in Stortinget, so I think it is well-lit. So in terms of proscissors, we've reduced some proscissors, and then we've adjusted others for cost. This does not necessarily mean the index of consumer prices, but it is the level of costs facing health enterprises that have been adjusted by the excess. I'd like to reduce excess weights more, but in the real world, we often have to choose between many important purposes. This government has spent most of the money in health care and concentrated on building new hospitals and providing more money for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e196	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e199	In no area are the lifting breaks more, and in no area is the distance greater between what Stoltenberg said in opposition, and what he does in government, than in business policy. In the election campaign, Stoltenberg said that we cannot have a government that leans back with its hands in captivity. When the industrial workplaces were laid down in Meråker, the first Minister of Industry of Stoltenberg said that this ‘is not a job for me or for others in the government’. In the election campaign, Stoltenberg said that he would take a phone call to the director of Norwegian Forest – and made the impression that it was the form of work, that the Workers' Party was going to fix it. When Telenor and Hydro are now selling out, the second Minister of Industry to Stoltenberg says, ‘We do not actively exercise ownership in individual cases.’ It may not be so strange that the LO-top Leif Sande in today's business today says that the government Stoltenberg gets diced six for the rhetoric, but zero for the actions. It appears that the more activist business policy has become anonymous sources in the VG on which directors are to be cast. There have been embarrassing statements by the nutritionist, Jan Bøhler, in today's Business. I think we should be glad that the Workers' Party has scrapped the activist industrial policy. But this raises some rather serious questions about the Workers' Party's attitude to election vows and the Workers' Party's attitude to their voters. My question is linked to the industrial power regime. Stoltenberg traveled around from industry to industry in the election campaign and promised that only we had a socialist government, the industry would get cheaper power. The previous government lacked will, the lack of ability. At the latest in Stavanger Aftenblad on 10 August 2005, Stoltenberg stated that this could be done under the EEA Agreement. Now, two years after the government came into office, the revised national budget states that it is recognised that it is not possible to achieve such an industrial power regime within the EEA Agreement. What new recognition is now given to Stoltenberg about the EEA, which he did not have in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e215	The main and most fundamental objective of industrial policy — and the measure of success of the Government in industrial policy — is to achieve our basic objectives. The basic objectives of industrial policy are employment, work for everyone and value creation. When we look at employment, we see that never before have more people been working in Norway. Unemployment is record low. And if we look at the industry, we see that the investments are record high and the exports are record high. Employment in industry is also growing now, although it is an industry where productivity growth is very high and employment growth is initially low. So with regard to the basic objectives, work, employment and growth in industry, it's doing very well. There's a lot of growth, a lot of jobs, a lot of start-ups and a lot of investment. Then I think the representative Sanner mixes up a little bit. It is excellent to call the director of Norwegian Forest. It was done, it's done, and it's fine. It did, as far as I know, also the former Minister of Industry, Børge Brende, so there's nothing wrong with it. But it's not active ownership, so when Sanner tries to represent it as an expression of ownership policy, it's completely wrong. The state does not own anything in Norwegian Forest. And when Sanner gives the impression that dealing with Norwegian Forest is an expression of active ownership, that's not the case. On the other hand, there is something else, namely that the State has a responsibility for dialogue with enterprises, whether they are wholly private, principal or mixed. What we're doing is we're contributing to high growth in Norwegian industry, and I'm glad that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e224	It is not the case that Norwegian businesses are doing well because of the government’s policy. After all, there will be no more jobs by increasing taxes and cuts in research. It is more in spite of the government's policy than because of the policy. There are probably quite a number of disillusioned workers' party people and LO peaks around the industrial sites who had believed that the Workers' Party would act in a completely different way, not least with regard to the industrial power regime, which my question was about. Let me repeat this: Stoltenberg traveled around the industrial sites in Norway and promised that if the Workers' Party won the election, the industry would get cheap power. The Workers' Party did so, along with the other socialist parties. I think we should be able to say that the Workers' Party bought itself into an election campaign by promising cheap power to the industry. Now, two years have passed with the Labour Party in government, and what is being done in the revised national budget is to scrape what may have been the leading election campaign from the Labour Party in the election campaign, that is, to introduce a new industrial power regime. It has been scrapped in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e233	Firstly, I did not promise cheap power to the industry. What I promised was that we would try to establish an industrial power regime within the EEA Agreement. We have made it quite clear the whole time that this must be within the EEA Agreement. The challenge is to obtain long-term supply contracts for industry that do not conflict with the ESA State aid legislation. That is what we are now working on, in dialogue with industry and in dialogue with ESA. The second is that there are many other elements of the Government's industrial policy that have been important for the growth of industry, for example: that we spend significantly more money on transport than the Right was ever close to doing, or that we have strengthened the tool and strengthened it, for example. focus on innovation and innovation. So this government is doing a lot for value creation in business, and the results are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e240	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e243	The interesting thing about this government is how they play with words to never admit a breach of promises. The industrial power regime is a good example of this. In the last period, the three red-green parties said that there was a great deal of room for action within the EEA Agreement to put in place a regime if it was just political will. In April, the Minister of Energy, Mr Enoksen, of the Nations, said that an industrial power system will be presented in the revised budget. Industry was then well pleased, because it is important to clarify the systems they have to deal with for further investment. But there is no system in the revised budget. The industry is therefore very dissatisfied with this. Nevertheless, the Minister of Industry was able to say in Stortinget last week that the Government has fulfilled its promise. Then this is a simple yes/no question to the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister believe that the Government has submitted a system for an industrial power regime, as promised by the Minister of Energy in April?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e250	We have not presented the proposal for an industrial power regime that we want to put forward. We are working on that proposal in dialogue with industry, and the industry is just as concerned as we are that it is not just a proposal but that it must be within the EEA Agreement's rules and regulations. One of our opportunities and challenges — similar when we had a discussion about reducing employers’ fees in districts — is that there is a discussion within the EU about changing its rules. A change in EU rules in relation to a power regime can make it easier for Norway to introduce a power regime for industry. But the important thing is that we strengthen the force balance, because whatever kind of regime we have, the most important thing is that we provide more force, with stronger force balance. This means, among other things: that we build the gas power plant in Mongstad, that we are spending more on energy saving and alternative energy sources, DKK 20 billion on the Energy Fund, to ensure a better power balance in Norway, which is important for industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e257	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e260	The trade union movement and the Labour Party promised in the election campaign in 2005 that they would provide cheaper electricity for the powerful industry. Let me quote a trade union leader at Helgeland: «Last year, we had an active election campaign for the Workers' Party where we went out and promised our members that if they voted on the Workers' Party, the power question would be resolved and a new industrial power regime would be put in place.This has not yet happened.» We are also clearly informed of this in the revised national budget. This has not happened, and it merges into the sequence of the Government's pledge breach. Prime Minister Stoltenberg is concerned that we should stick to the EEA Agreement. He has said that many times in today's debate, and none of us disagree. But my question is, what did then party leader Stoltenberg do in 2005 to correct the promises made by the Workers' Party, which the trade movement gave, to thousands of industrial workers before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e274	I think at first we're going to stay a little bit by the notion of cheaper power, because I think that some of the uncertainties arise by adding different things to the term. If it is considered that the State is going to enter and subsidize power by cheaper means, state power is required to sell to under market conditions, that is contrary to EEA law, and that is completely impossible. Nor does industry itself ask for it, because they know that there are massive countermeasures from ESA and the EU system as criminal responses to State aid infringements. But if you have cheaper power, for example. believes that long-term, predictable and good power agreements can be reached with the industry based on a stable decrease in power, not with consumption, such as households, that industry might contribute to security of supply by having clauses to stop the use of power once the power market is pressed, then we can get to agreements that ensure good conditions for industry, which ensure stable supplies, and which are within the EEA acquis. That is what we are working on, and I also said clearly before the election that we should be in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e279	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e282	The Prime Minister's last reply will be noticed in Industry-Norway, for it is true that the representatives of the Workers' Party promised when they traveled around before the elections. Then, in a short time, a power regime would give industry a more favourable price than if they were in the market. What Stoltenberg now says is the same thing as he said when he, as committee leader in the late 1990s, went in to wind up the power regime that one had had for a long time. What advice will the Prime Minister give to the companies that are now wondering whether there will be a deal with power contracts from the Government and have experienced in recent years that prices have risen while waiting for the promises to be fulfilled? What advice will the Prime Minister now give when market prices are expected to rise further? Will a wait in new years for a regime from the Government that provides more favourable prices, or shall a party enter the market now and secure long-term, predictable contracts on the basis of secure jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e290	Firstly, it is vital to ensure the strength of the industry that we strengthen the power balance in Norway. For this reason, we have been committed to power-building projects and a strong strengthening of the effort made to ensure improved power availability in Norway. It is the very core wall of any industrial regime. Secondly, market prices can reflect different things. What we're looking for is systems where the industry gets different conditions than the households, because they buy different goods. They buy a product with a steady decrease in power, while households constantly buy the most power when it is the least power – when it is cold in winter, and when everyone uses a lot of power in the middle of the day. Thirdly, the industry is in dialogue and open to conclude agreements that contribute to security of supply. Then there will be different market conditions for industry than for households. That's also why we looked for a system of our own industrial power market that reflects these inequalities. This type of model is possible under the EEA Agreement. That's what we're working on. We have never promised anything that is contrary to state aid law in the EEA, because it affects the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e299	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e302	In fact, I think the Prime Minister is now throwing himself around the truth in his reply to the representative Sanner. I don't think anyone in the Norwegian industrial community has been in doubt that there was no single reservation about the promises you made to serve cheaper energy to the Norwegian industry. And to help memory, I can quote what the Labour Party leader, current Prime Minister, said, according to Stavanger Aftenblad on August 10, 2005: «A new red-green government will provide electricity to industry at below market prices. a two-price scheme in force with a special price for industry and a market price for ordinary households is possible to establish in Norway with the approval of the European Supervisory Authorities EEA and ESA.’» [[...]] I assume the quote is correct, because I haven't seen any dementia on it. Is it not in the name of propriety that it is time to complain to both Norwegian industrial workers and Stortinget that it is now withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e312	I maintain what I have said all along: it is possible to establish an industrial power regime with prices different from those that households have to pay, simply because the industry buys a different product, a different type of power than households do. I have now tried to explain that in a few answers. It is very different to enter into long-term contracts with stable deliveries, which industry can do, and also to enter into supply security agreements if there is a shortage of power, while households use the most power at the times of the year and the day when there is the least power and the greatest demand. Therefore, it is possible to establish two regimes. It must be within State aid law, and we are working for that in close dialogue with industry. We said that before the election, and we say that after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e317	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e320	I was recently in Division 7 of the Drammen Circuit Prison. In that department, there are 17 inmates, six of them depending on the game. Several inmates themselves say that the need for money to put on the slot machines is an essential reason why they started with profit crime, that they continued with it, and that they are now in prison. It was strong to hear them say that addiction to gambling was perceived as stronger than dependence on heroin. It was also alarming to hear stories about broken family ties, damaged professional careers and self-esteem as a result of gambling addiction. A slot machine at the local kiosk was too many of the imprisoned cause of all the misery they are now struggling with. Slot machines hit them with the worst economy. That's what the auto industry is all about. Oslo slot machines are located on the east edge and are almost undetectable on the west edge. The two malls CC West and Stovner Centers are almost as much in total, but the automatic sales are ten times as large at Stovner Center as at CC West. This is gross exploitation of ordinary people's dreams of a better life. Government income from vending machines becomes a class tax. It takes mostly from those who have the least from before. 208 rapporteurs from all over the country and from all parties have committed themselves to getting rid of all the slot machines. They themselves experience the human suffering and economic consequences of the vending machines, and they are not interested in experimenting with Norwegian Typing's so-called nice machines. They want to prevent it rather than repair it. My question to the Prime Minister is – after the Minister of Culture at a press conference yesterday said that there are only kiosks who have veto rights in the automatic matter: What does the Prime Minister think is most democratic – that there are kiosks or that there are local politicians who decide whether a municipality should be free from slot machines?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e329	Firstly, I would like to say that I think it is important and great that the representative Højbråten is concerned with gambling addiction, of the social problems gambling addiction can create and create for many people. Secondly, I am also pleased with the active policy of the Christian People's Party in the previous government when it comes to the fight against gambling addiction. That is why it was a very broad majority on the Stortinget that supported the proposal of the Valgerd Svarstad Haugland and the Bondevik II Government to have a national gambling policy, not open up to liberalisation around different municipalities, and secondly, it was clear that Norsk Tipping would have monopoly on slot machines. Then Valgerd Svarstad Haugland stood up and fought against the gambling industry and against the EU by insisting that we should have a national gambling monopoly, that Norsk Tipping should have monopoly on slot machines. I actually admired the power of the Christian People's Party to implement the policy that Trond Giske is now following. So what surprises me is that you go to the Great Britain in 2003, get this policy adopted, challenged by the waste industry and ESA, stands upright against the waste industry and ESA, wins the case – and then turns around. I think that's a little confusing – at least given the power you're turning around with, because it seems like what you meant a short time ago is almost unacceptable. What this government is doing is following what the previous government proposed and got a majority for in Stortinget, that we're going to have a completely different kind of game policy than the one we've had up to today, that we're going to have other types of machines, that we're going to have a lot more control, that we're going to have a lot less aggressive, and that Norsk Tipping is going to have monopoly. It was Valgerd Reply City Haugland who suggested it. We supported it, and we implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e338	I note that the Prime Minister is now using the same method that all his government councils tend to use in this room: when we ask a question, we don't get an answer to the question, but we get an attack back. The Christian People's Party took up the fight against the slot machines. We've carried it on in the light of the new knowledge we've gained about the enormous amount of social problems that gambling addiction creates, and the strong growth that's been in the game market since we took up that fight. That is why we have adjusted the course and we stand for it. What surprises me is that the Prime Minister is clearly behind a policy that will force municipalities that do not want these machines to accept them. The Soria Moria Declaration commends the local government, but you don't want to give local government veto, you want to give it to kiosks in each municipality. I don't get it carried by, to say it simple and popular. I have to say to the Prime Minister – he doesn't have to comment on it, but he can do it: this policy of taking money from those who have the most difficulty, and giving to organisations to help those who have the most difficulty, has no moral strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e345	I believe that it is a good thing in politics to turn around and change and think otherwise. I think politicians should recognize that they do, and that is what all politicians do. What I think is a little strange, is that when I agree with the Dagfinn Højbrätten thought a short time ago in government, the Højbrätt does not understand the bearer of it, and believes that it is almost immoral that I agree with the Christian People's Party's policy a few months ago. The fact that the rest of us have not turned around can make it difficult for us to become immoral beings who do not have morals in game policy. We have morals. We believe that the policy of the Christian People's Party was a short time ago is a right policy. We are implementing that policy. It means a strong tightening of game policy, by getting a national gambling monopoly, as proposed by the Christian People's Party, and by getting substantially other types of machines, more stringent controls and a consultation system. This is an intrusion that I am pleased with, and that is an expression of our desire to control the game policy here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e350	Here too, the President will accept four follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e353	In alcohol policy – for which there are many different opinions in Norwegian policy – an approach has been adopted with national frameworks and rules, but allowing local governance, local design, so that you can decide for yourself local times, decide beer monopolies, etc., because you have confidence in local politicians and trust in the local government. The challenges of gambling policy are not so different in many ways from those faced by alcohol policy. There are benefits and disadvantages that are expressed in local communities, and where there is a need to balance several considerations. This varies from one municipality to another. Then it's very close and sensible to say that you move these decisions down to the lowest level, where you know the issues best on the body. Then it becomes very strange that the government does not want it. Doesn't the government trust local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e361	The government believes, like a broad majority in 2003, with the exception of the Progress Party, that it is absolutely right, that we should have a national gambling policy. It is also common in almost all other countries. As far as the department is aware, no other country has left to the municipalities to decide the game policy. There might be examples of that, but at least there aren't many of them. When we have a national gambling policy, it is precisely to help combat the social problems associated with gambling, and also to avoid crime, for example. for money laundering. What you have to notice now is that there are two completely different types of arguments to leave this to the municipalities. One is those who want tightening up. However, I expect that the desire of the Progress Party for the municipalities to decide will mean that one will also have the opportunity to liberalise and thus have more games, more liberal games, perhaps casinos and other things. So I think it's the way that those who no longer want to have a national game policy have extremely different arguments for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e368	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e371	This is not about, as the Prime Minister suggests, local gambling policy should be in the way described by the Prime Minister. This is a local reservation right, i.e. a municipality should be able to refuse to have machines. It does not interfere with national action in relation to monopolies, the type of games and all the approaches. And neither is it what the Prime Minister says, that there is a broad majority in the Storting that stands for exactly what was agreed from the previous period. There has been a lot of movement in game policy because a lot has happened. Among other things, we've got the verdicts from ESA. The government itself has introduced further restrictions, for example: in the case of a banknote prohibition, a theme which was not in existence during the previous period. What we see is that there's a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a At the entrance to the local election campaign, it is strange that you do not have such confidence in local politicians that you can answer yes or no to the Højbrätten question. So I ask, is it more democratic that kiosks should be able to say no than that the local government should be able to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e378	I think this question illustrates what was my point in the previous answer, that those who argue against a national gambling policy have very different types of reasons for it. At least I have seen it clearly there that when the Progress Party wants to end national gambling policy, it is because they want to open up to a more liberal gambling policy. Others, and possibly also the Right, who argue against a national gambling policy, obviously want it to be within at least as strict a framework as that adopted by the State. What's my point is that there was a very broad majority of these principles in 2003. It's, as I say, okay to change your mind, but it's kind of funny that those who change their mind are so completely incomprehensible that not everyone changes their mind, but that someone actually thinks the same thing in 2007 as in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e385	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e388	For the left, community is a lot different than state. Voluntary organisations have drawn much of their income from the gambling market. The left agrees that a strictly regulated gaming market is needed. Nevertheless, it is important that voluntary organisations receive their income. The Soria Moria Declaration says very well about the voluntary organisations and measures to be taken against them, of which the Left agrees with much. However, we have seen that it has taken an incredible amount of time to get the volunteer message we have been talking about. Then two things have been presented in Stortinget. One relates to a voluntary register which appears to thin the small ones, but which may be helpful to the large workers’ party-driven NGOs. A collection model has also been provided, which is very poorly investigated. The question is, will the Prime Minister care about the voluntary organizations? Will there be any pressure on this soon? Will we implement what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration? And does he think it is important that organizations have free revenues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e397	The representative Skei Grande now addresses something very important, and that's the other side of the waste debate, that there's a way to secure non-governmental organisations' own incomes. There are significant sums – up to DKK 1 billion – given to non-governmental organisations and sports organisations, among others. from this type of game. You can't be against the games or allow municipalities to say no, but at the same time take the consequences of it and understand that then there will be less money for sports teams and non-governmental organisations doing an important job. This is one of the reasons why the Government is committed to the policy of gambling that was widely agreed in 2003. We want to strengthen the voluntary organisations. A voluntary register is something the voluntary organisations themselves have wanted. We believe it is very important and very good that the voluntary organisations should receive state aid, and they do, but I am actually very concerned that they have their own income from lottery sales, from games and whatever it may be, because it strengthens their independence from the state that they have their own income. There's also a reason to keep the game policy we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e404	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e407	In his reply to the representative Dagfinn Højbräten, the Prime Minister said that he supported the Christian People's Party's game policy a few months ago. Now I must be told that a few months ago the Christian People's Party proposed a total ban on slot machines. It's been several years since we stood for the monopoly of games, and it's about a matter that has evolved as time has passed. I wish the Prime Minister had agreed with us a few months ago, because we had not had this debate today. The Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘The people’s board is under pressure. The decisions are increasingly transferred to market players, to wealthy individuals, organisations, bureaucrats and others who are not responsible to the people in elections. This leads to a lack of trust, demise and less involvement and participation in social issues among the majority of people.’» The government goes the other way when the Trond Giske State Council says that it is up to Narvesen or other market actors to decide whether there should be vending machines in the municipalities – not the elected ones. Why does the Government not follow its own government statement in the automatic matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e419	First, I would like to make it clear that by «a few months ago» I mean back to the time when the Christian People's Party was in government, and I think that's an 18-19 months ago or something like that. It is also certainly true that a little less months ago the Christian People's Party thought otherwise. And as I've said before, I have respect for parties that change meaning, that's part of the political processes to do that. So when it comes to our game policy, that's what we've been up to all along, that's that we think we should have a national game policy. That is what is common in most countries, and it is important to avoid social problems, gambling addiction, that we have strict national rules. And we believe that there are some very difficult and complicated problems that all municipalities want money from the income that the games give to their sports teams, while many municipalities want to say no to having the games – but they say yes to the money. There's a context that's a little difficult to practice, so in case you had to put on the full funding of the volunteer organizations and do this more municipally, and I don't think any non-governmental organizations are taking the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e426	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e430	Of the many downsides after the Soria Moria Declaration, few have, in the Left's view, been tougher and tougher than the treatment of research in Norway. There is a broad consensus among those who stand by this, that we have got a rest slice. And it might look like, after the presentation of the revised national budget, that we too, with what is said there – or not least what is not said there – now have a rough course towards a solid miscarriage. In the Soria Moria Declaration, which the Prime Minister is pleased about – and he has to – because that is the basis of his government – the promises to invest in research are both in percentage and in priority extremely clear. It's not always that kind of documents have such clear numbers, but here the numbers are very clear. It is also the case that more money should be allocated. You had to make sure that it wasn't just something that grew with the economy – it was supposed to be a real priority. I have asked this question many times in this Chamber to the Minister of Knowledge – and have largely discovered his after every well-informed explanation, namely that I do not really see what I see. Has the Government added to both the ability and the willingness to prioritize research? Is it so that this is no longer high on the agenda, with the strength and strength of the Soria Moria declaration? Where in the state budget for this year, but not least in the revised national budget, can the Prime Minister point to the ability and willingness to prioritise in a growing and comprehensive economy? Where is there any trace of this, President? The question is addressed to the Prime Minister through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e439	I'll answer that question about a tiny moment. I've noticed that more people are talking about the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. Then I want to underline the joy I have of leading a government that fulfills promises – implements what we promised before the election – at a pace and extent that you need to go back in time to find your husband. We are in front of the form for employees in the care of the elderly, a strengthening of the care of the elderly. We build record-breaking new kindergartens. We run an economy where there's now a record of employment. And we have, among other things, ensuring the follow-up of important promises such as the Cultural Promise and a strong increase in assistance. This government implements it – we keep the election promises. But we're not half way into the big period yet, so we're not in all areas. When it comes to research, let me first just remind you what's status. In total, research appropriations have increased by nearly NOK 2.4 billion after we took over. The capital of the Research Fund has been increased by DKK 24 billion. The challenge in terms of total research is that it is a combination of public and private funds. Public research efforts in Norway are at a rather high level compared to many other countries. Only the United States, Sweden and Iceland spend more public money on research per year. is based on a population of more than Norway. We are also quite high in terms of GDP. What is lower in Norway than in many other countries is private research, but public research has increased by billions after taking over. There's no rest cutting, there's a commitment to research. In addition, we participate in important research cooperation, including: in the case of the Polar Year. 60 nations are in – thousands of researchers. And we are participating in the 7th EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development. This government is betting on research. We spend more money than the previous government on research. I would like to use even more, but there are many important purposes, including: Hospitals, which we have talked about earlier in this questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e454	The Prime Minister has a solid professional background. He knows that in a growing economy it is nothing but proper and honest bookkeeping to make sure that the research gets its own. That was not what was at the heart of my question, but the will and ability to prioritise. The Prime Minister cannot blame the industry on the contrary. Last night, the industry said that the government had to follow up on what it was going to do, both to industry and – not least – to public research. Industry has said: Do not use us as a pretext not to bet on us or on the public! It seems to me that we are faced here with a different sense of reality for those who wear the shoes, i.e. the researchers, for those who do this in public – the prime minister emphasizes the importance of – in business and in government. The left is willing to build up the Research Fund to NOK 150 billion in 2010. It is a tangible measure for the future. My specific question will then be: Is the Government willing to bet on the Research Fund in 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e463	How much we're going to spend on research in next year's budget and in future budgets, we're going to have to deal with those budgets. It is vital that this government has shown a willingness to increase research appropriations. They've increased by NOK 2.4 billion. The research fund has increased after we assumed the government responsibility. I am also pleased that the representative of Dørum is engaged in research. Research is important, so important that it deserves more money – and has gained more money. But at the same time, I think it's wise of us who are concerned about research, that we're not only concerned with how we spend more public money on research, but also with the quality and the facility of research. At least the research I know has a potential for improvement in quality. It's not just about spending as much money as possible for a purpose, but also a little bit of what we get back for the money we spend. Because I am a member of public sector innovation, I am also a strong supporter of the renewal of the quality of research – in addition to more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e470	The President had intended to limit the number of follow-up questions to two, but when a third joined, the President would allow the latter to benefit – on the occasion of his 50th birthday today. So there are three follow-up questions – first from Siv Jensen, then from Jan Tore Sanner and then from Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e475	First, I must be allowed to correct the Prime Minister. It is not the Prime Minister and his government that build new kindergartens. It does this to municipalities, private and non-governmental organisations, and they do it because there is increasing demand among families with children. I never hear the prime minister say they're building new hospitals. Of course, it's because there's a problem with hospitalization. And then it's very legitimate for him to say that this is the responsibility of the municipalities, it doesn't interfere with the government. So to the matter: In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that ‘research efforts should be increased to 3 per cent of GDP by 2010’. Recently, the Minister of Knowledge stated that it was unrealistic to achieve the objective of increasing the research effort to 3 pst. of GDP in 2010. What is the Government's policy? Is that the Soria Moria statement? Are those the statements of the Minister of Knowledge? Can we expect Norway's share on the research page to increase to 3 pst. of GDP, which has been a target for a number of years, but which we are currently far from achieving? I would like to know what is the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e482	Firstly, I would like to express my strong condolences to the Progress Party that the Prime Minister does not build kindergartens himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e487	It's not bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e492	What the prime minister does is lead a government that grants money to kindergartens so that others can build them. I think it's an advantage for kindergartens that we have that division of labour. [[Laughter]] At the same time, I have made it clear that it should not be on money. Everyone who builds a kindergarten will automatically get money. That's why more kindergartens are being built than ever before, at least ever since Gro Harlem Brundtland's heydays. So we're in the process of babysitting. The same applies to nursing homes. We have built – i.e. many have built many hospitals, because the government has granted more money to the municipalities. As far as research is concerned, it is important to underline the following: 3 pst. has been the objective pursued by the OECD and many others for the overall research. Most of it is privately funded research. What I tried to underline in my previous answer is that Norway is relatively high, at least not very low, in public research. The problem is to mobilise private research.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e503	That made the matter very clear, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e508	The President will draw attention to the fact that the questioner has no opportunity to say anything after the answer has been given, even though the President understands that one sometimes has a strong desire to do so. The President will also add: if the President is not completely wrong, the relationship is the Grand Government which is the granting authority in this country, while the Government is making proposals to the Stortinget. So the government does not grant funds unless it has obtained a mandate for a special chapter. It's the Storting that's still the granting authority. You might want to worry about that. There will be follow-up questions – Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e516	The Prime Minister has to endure being measured on his promises after almost two years in the Prime Minister's chair. I recorded that the Prime Minister did not answer the question from Siv Jensen, whether he is behind the Minister of Knowledge's announcement of the research goal that the total research will be in 3 p.m. in 2010, and the publicly funded research 1 pst. That's not really what the Prime Minister claims, that public research is on its way up. In fact, the share of GDP in public research has fallen below Jens Stoltenberg as Prime Minister. When the Right sat in government with the Left and Christian People's Party, the share of GDP went up to public research, but as soon as Stoltenberg entered the government chair, the share of public research went down. This is the main reason why it may not be possible to achieve the objective of getting publicly funded research up to 1 pst. and the total research up to 3 pst. Is the Prime Minister behind Djupedal's cancellation of the promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e525	First, I would like to commend the President for clarifying the constitutional situation. I can rest assured that no coup d'état has been carried out in Norway. The size is still advocating authority, and I'm going to remind myself of what the president says. I'm not going to get angry and put it on my mind. I'll answer that with the research. When we allocate SEK 2.4 billion more to research, it is to strengthen research. More money is spent on research. Fortunately, we are in the situation in Norway that the national product is growing strongly. That's why we have problems keeping up the percentage of total research effort. We stand by what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. At the same time, we have said in the Soria Moria statement that there are goals that we are working to achieve. We work that all the time. We have increased public research efforts. The challenge now is to mobilise more private research efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e540	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e543	I am absolutely sure that the Prime Minister spends a lot of time thinking about what to do now as it is a very good time in the country, to make sure that we are going to be fine when it comes to bad times, because after sun rain comes – the Prime Minister knows that very well. If I am to give one advice before the end of the 2008 budget, it must be to look at research expenditure as something other than ordinary expenditure. These are the costs of the acquisition of income. The Prime Minister, as a former Minister of Industry, knows that he has received figures showing that research, especially industrial research, has an annual return of up to 50 p.p., where everything is essential to society and not to the individual enterprise. It provides a basis for looking at research efforts differently than at other costs in the State budget. That's the wisest thing we can do in the meeting with worse times – it's about the need for new jobs, the need for a new give in the economy, maybe more than we have now. If I could bring a little cheer for the 2008 budget, it would be very nice if the Prime Minister could fulfill some of that thinking, beyond the most exposed promises, such as kindergartens, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e552	First, I would like to congratulate Lars Sponheim on his 50th birthday. It's a great and important day. Congratulations on the day! So I want to say that I understand the significance of research, and that's a long-term investment. I mean, among other things: research is important in relation to another of the major challenges facing us, the climate challenge. I am sure that we need new technologies and more advanced solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is also an argument for research — and for development. For example, the Mongstad plant is defined. not as research, but as the development of a technology that we need to solve an important environmental problem. At the same time, I believe that the more you are concerned with research, the more you have to be concerned not only about how much money we give – so we have given more money, and we have to work to grant even more – but it is also very important to have a debate on the quality of research and what we get back. There's actually good reason to discuss how we're going to make sure that the only goal we have in research, not only is how much money we spend, but quality -- what we actually get back.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e561	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e564	I understand that we are now in the department for the examination of previously given promises. Actually, I'm also going to sign up for that. The state has an important responsibility for the construction of bicycle routes along its national roads. In the election campaign in 2005, then opposition leader Jens Stoltenberg was reasonably clear in his opinions on the situation of the cyclists in Oslo. He announced that the first thing he would do if he became prime minister was to contact the Municipality of Oslo to make progress in the development of walking and cycling routes. As far as known, such contact is still not established. Unfortunately, we have to find that the state activity on the national road network in terms of the development of bicycle routes is lower than ever. What will the Prime Minister do to follow up his own election promises to speed up the development of bicycles in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e571	It is very good that the representative Myhre addresses this question, because I believe that cycling routes are a very undervalued political topic. It should have much greater political attention. In my childhood, or youth, I took part in bicycle activities in Oslo. I cycled around and called with the ring bell and protested against the lack of bicycle routes in Oslo. That's what I'm going to start with again, because there's still scandalous relationships for cyclists here in town. What is extremely frustrating is that even if we have money, it is not possible to use it. When examining the possibilities for building bicycle paths in this city, there are so many bureaucratic answers and so many shortcomings in plan decisions and regulatory decisions that what we are now engaged in in in dialogue with the Directorate of Road and the Ministry of Transport is to have a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo to get projects ready. Without leaking too much from the internal budgetary procedure in the government, I can say that I wanted us to spend more money as late as the revision. The answer is that it is not possible to spend more money, because there are no projects prepared. There I do not blame Oslo Municipality or the State Road Administration, I just say that I believe that Vegvessenet, Oslo Municipality and others should sit down and get ahead in preparation, in plan decisions and in regulations, so that Oslo can become a city of cyclists, where we can all enjoy cycling and – what to say – we rejoiced to bike, we rejoiced to sweep down the hills and sweat up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e580	However, it is the responsibility of the State to keep pace with the development of the cycle routes along the national road network for which the State is responsible. What the government has actually done is to stop a large and important ongoing project, the Ulven-Sinsen project, which is not only a road tunnel and a lot of junctions, but also a network of cycle routes to be built together to form the hub in the main cycle network in Oslo and connect the cycle routes along Ring 3, East Aker road, Trondheimsvegen and E6. In addition, the Riksantikvaren has now announced that he will most definitely oppose the fact that we are building a bicycle path to the leisure areas on Bygdøy. Then what I discover is that we unfortunately have to note that the state authorities themselves have not added either the credit or the money to the table in terms of the development of bicycle routes in Oslo, which is the responsibility of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e587	So, first of all, it's like it's built and allocated money to walking and cycling routes in the Oslo area as well. We have both numbers and examples of that. But it happens too slowly, both what is going to happen under municipal authority, where the municipalities are responsible for building, and what is happening under state control – there is a combination here in the city. I'm at least as busy with this now as before. I would like to continue the dialogue both with Vegvesenet and with the Municipality of Oslo. It's partly about money, but I've discovered that it's less about money than I thought, and more about regulation and plan decisions and about making the necessary decisions, so that we get to bet more on bike paths here in town.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e592	For the sake of time, the number of follow-up questions is limited to two — first, Inge Wohnung.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e596	The representative Myhre asked a very precise question related to a personal promise from Jens Stoltenberg, but got an answer to something quite different. Indirectly, the Prime Minister thus gave an answer. What he's done with what he said should be first priority, is equal to nothing. In today’s nations, his own Minister of Transport says that ‘the districts must get a much larger part of the road cake’. That is not very promising when it comes to following up the Prime Minister's personal guarantee to the Oslo citizens about exactly cycling routes. There is a constant problem in this questioning, I think, that the Prime Minister every time he is confronted with concrete promises, goes around and talks about something else. It makes me think that the Prime Minister has taken the aim of passing over a classic figure in Norwegian revising art, namely the Russian submarine captain of Harald Heide-Steen Jr. Is the answer to all the questions more balalaika?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e605	The answer to that question is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e610	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e613	I just want to say that that was a good answer. I would also like to follow up on what stands in today's nation, where the Council of Navarsetes quite sharply indicates that now the billions are going to twist. Less resources will be allocated to the central eastern region and Oslo to address the traffic problems. It has to be turned over to the districts. Is it so to understand that the future framework for road construction and maintenance is to be maintained at the present level, so that we must therefore twist within the existing frameworks, and that we cannot expect an uplift to road investment in the central eastern region, in Oslo or in the rest of the country? As is evident in the nations today, the situation in the West Pole is that one is now putting potatoes on the county road. That's what's happening with this government, too, which is not going to be able to take the sum of NOK 230 billion on the road and the road maintenance delays of NOK 15 billion, among other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e622	First, I would like to say that it is important to discuss the road, and the thing about it is that the adopted national transport plan is fixed, with the projects that are there, and with the distribution that is there. It is valid until 2010 – it is well – and then the Government will deal with a new transport plan and present it to the Stortinget. Then we also have to decide on both the size and the arrangements of the transport investments. We'll get back to that in neat forms. The important thing now is to notice that the Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, ensured that the transport plan was increased by more than NOK 2 billion. That we got 2 billion more per. years of transportation, we have now also followed it up, and that we have granted more to the road and more to the railway. As a result, the cake has become bigger for road investment both in districts and cities, but because there are many important unsolved tasks both in the transport sector and in other areas, more money is obviously needed. And we're going to look at the possibilities of finding even more money, then over the transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e629	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e632	There was a government shift in 2005, not least with a background in clear promises of a new industrial policy and a content for the industrial policy toolbox. And there was an upsurge in Norwegian industrial communities, where, among other things, The working party increased its attendance two to three times more than on a national basis. So today, the Prime Minister says that he continues to work on his promise – which would have been carried out within two weeks – to introduce an industrial power regime in which Norwegian industry would get cheaper power. He repeats the claim today. I quote from the recently submitted revised national budget. Here's what it says: ‘The Government recognises that, under the EEA Agreement, it is currently very difficult to put in place special Norwegian schemes that give the power-intensive industry advantages: [[...]] This is in stark contrast to the information provided by the Prime Minister here in today's Question Time. Why do you say one thing in the election campaign, and do something else? Why such an impression is given when we have seen the follow-up from August to September 2005: Meråker, Union. The voters in the Telemark border area were given the clear impression that only a red-green government was not able to do so, so the acquisition law would be put in place. 1881-employees voted red-green. Telenor Satellite voted red-green. Employees of Hydro Polymers voted red-green in a safe and secure manner that they had a different toolbox to route with. Why is it that Jens Stoltenberg and the red-greens in the election campaign chose to sell knitting in the way they did, for meters?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e646	This government is pursuing an active industrial policy. It contributes, inter alia, to: that we now have more people in work than ever before, that employment in industry is growing, that production and value creation in industry are record high, and that there is high investment in industry. This is the main objective of success in industrial policy. But it hangs, among other things. together with a responsible economic policy. This is because we invest in transport, significantly more in road investment than the Right was ever close to thinking about in government. And it is linked to the fact that we have strengthened the state instrument, not least the regional instrument, and among other things. have been re-introduced in districts, which is important for many areas of Norway. We have a different government ownership policy, which is only part of business policy, among other things. by the fact that we have stopped what I would call the blind privatisation of the previous government drive, the withdrawal of sales powers and the willingness to use state ownership, whether it's in Nammo or it's in the Statoil-Hydro merger, to ensure good industrial development and projects. As owners, we have adopted new guidelines for remuneration to leaders in the group and stopped the use of options, and we have made significantly better conditions for the shipping industry, including: by implementing the Right-Law but never implemented – the introduction of net wages – and broadening the guarantee arrangements for the yards by extending the GIEK scheme. There's a lot that's been done. This has contributed to a good development in Norwegian industry. It is difficult to put in place an industrial power regime under the EEA Agreement. We also said clearly before the elections that what we are going to do in terms of industrial power is going to happen within the EEA State Aid Code, simply because the opposite is going to be doing industry a bear service, then there will be counter-reactions that hit the industry very hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e660	It is not true what the Prime Minister says here today, that it was clearly stated before the elections about the resistance to meet in EU competition law. On the contrary, it was clear that this could be implemented under the EEA Agreement. But I record that the Prime Minister chooses not to answer the question of why one is acting in one way in industrial societies after industrial communities, and then is surprised at the platform when, for example, Hydro Polymers and others are sold abroad. There are also several other examples that I mentioned. The review of the right hand side I can briefly get into it. In 2001, the highest interest rate rate rate at the European Summit was taken over by Russia as an exception. They took over a time off on a trip, investments on a trip down. Pessimism was acquired in Norwegian business. I think you should have a slightly more liberal reputation of what you're now trying to throw at when it comes to their political opponents.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e667	I maintain what I have said for over an hour now, namely that the main objective of whether a business policy is good or bad, is whether business is doing well. When business goes well, there is at least a sign that there is a lot that is quite good about business policy. And it's going well in the business world. A lot of people are at work. Value creation is record high, investments are record high, etc. I believe that when the main objective of industrial policy is met, it can also be said that industrial policy does not work so badly at least. Then there's a lot of mess, for example. we will invest more in transport and more in research. We also need to develop state instruments, and we need to work to improve the conditions in terms of power. As I said earlier today, the most important contribution to ensuring power is to make it more powerful. That is why we are building gas power plants on Mongstad, and therefore we are putting considerable emphasis on energy saving measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e675	Due to time pressure, the President will allow only two follow-up questions – the Modulf Increase first.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e678	I would think that much of the ownership message could have been written by the previous government, and equally much of the previous message might have been written by the current government. But in one area, there was a difference, and it was the state ownership. But when it comes to implementation and the practical use of ownership, it turns out that there is little difference from the previous government and probably also from the former government of Stoltenberg. I don't mean to say that the use of ownership towards companies like 1881, which have been mentioned earlier here today, and Hydro Polymers is unreasonable. But large sections of trade and otherwise the people now seem to react to the fact that the distance is irresponsibly large between what one sees in practice, and what many have had reason to believe. In terms of the sales of Polymers, it is said that the state's active ownership is not exercised in individual matters. The question to the Prime Minister is whether he will confirm that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e685	The answer to that question is yes. I can justify it. It is the board that is responsible for making individual decisions in these types of companies. That's why we've been clear and clear all along. The fact that a board has a responsibility to make decisions on individual matters does not mean that there can be no dialogue with that board. This applies whether the company is a principal, a semi-governmental or a fully-private company. That's why it was right for Børge Burnde to have dialogue with the Norwegian Forest board, even though it was a completely private company. It is therefore right for the Minister of Industry to have dialogue with Hydro and with the new owners of Polymers, in order to help ensure value creation and jobs in Norway. After all, it is essential that we ensure value creation, income and jobs in Norway. So there's good results. As for the distance from the policy of the previous government, I would say that the goal of whether a policy is good or bad is not the distance from the policy of the previous government. It has never been a goal for me in itself to have the greatest possible distance. The aim is that the policy leads to good results. It is crucial that policy be good or bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e692	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e695	When business is going well today, the Prime Minister takes it as a sign that the Government is making good choices. Now it's a little bit of time from a decision to a look at the results. It also applies to business. The important thing for business to do well tomorrow is to have predictability of making investments today. Hydro Karmøy is in that situation. They have been waiting for clarification on the framework conditions for industrial power. The company estimates billions of investments to save hundreds and thousands of jobs in Karmøy. They have given a clear signal that an industrial power system must be completed by the summer in order to make a good decision. The Prime Minister has previously stated that the industry must have a power price lower than the market price. But such a system already exists today. There are several types of market price for electricity: one for households and one for long-term contracts. What Hydro is waiting for is the promise that there will be an industrial power regime that offers a lower price than what is currently available on the market. Should Hydro wait for the government to come with this? Or are they just going to deal with the market, as the Prime Minister has said earlier today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e704	In my previous answers I tried to reflect on what you mean by lower price or cheaper price. That's where you can think of different things. I think that some reason why there's going to be some discussion in this debate is that you put different things in those words. This would be contrary to EU State aid legislation. No one has intended to break that legislation, that we should give a lower price in the sense of a subsidised price, where we should therefore impose, for example. State power to continue the old regime, where one was to sell power at a price subsidized by the owner of State power, namely the state. However, if it is considered at a lower price that industry can get a price lower than that paid by households, the possibilities are absolutely present. I have tried to justify that several times. In that case, the industry is a steady decrease and not only the buyer when it is the peak load or the highest demand. Because industry can enter into supply security agreements, industry can get a lower price on market terms than households.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e711	The oral question time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e717	There will be a few changes in the set question list, and the President will show you in the context of the overview that has been distributed to the representatives' seats in the room. The President proposes that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved – and sees it as accepted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Borghild Tende to the Minister for Transport, will be drawn up by the representative Inge Hallgeir Solli. Question 6, from the representative Inge Wohnung to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Health as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e730	«The electricity subscribers in Steigen were without electricity for six days in January. Nord-Salten Kraftlag AL is subject to an infringement fee of 3 million. kr due to a lack of maintenance and control of one of the supply lines. The subscribers have been paid compensation of about 10 million. kr. These costs are entered in the network accounts in 2007 [[KILE]] The Council of State considers it reasonable for subscribers to have to cover approx. 60 pst. of the compensation through increased network lease?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e737	Weather the night until 25 January 2007 led to three masters cracking in a secure area at Hopfjell in the municipality of Steigen. This meant that the alternative power line, Vassmo-Skølvareid, was connected, but it could not withstand the load. The NVE believes that the transmission capacity of the power line was very likely to be permanently impaired long before the storm, and that this is significantly due to insufficient control and maintenance of the network company Nord-Salten Kraftlag AL. The NVE has therefore informed the company that they will be charged a fee of 3 million. kr. Bad weather caused it to take almost six days before normal power could be restored. As a result of the power outage, affected end-users in the municipality of Steigen have therefore been paid approx. Ten million. kr in compensation from the company, which they are entitled to in accordance with the regulations of the NVE. This is a scheme that was introduced this year. In addition, the company's authorised revenue for 2007 will be reduced by approx. Fifteen million. kr as a result of the KILE scheme, which is regulated by the same regulations. This reduction must be taken into account by the company when determining the 2008 network lease. In other words, two arrangements are intended to ensure security of supply and network customers in the event of a power supply interruption. The financial regulation of the transmission system companies is designed in such a way that 40 pst. the compensation payments and the amount of the KILE will be included in the calculation basis for the company’s authorised income in 2009. Insularly, this implies that the permitted revenues in 2009 will be approx. Ten million. kr higher than if the event in Steigen had not taken place. Allowed revenue in 2007 will be reduced by 15 million. kr and permitted income in 2009 will be increased by approx. Ten million. kr as a result of the event in Steigen. Thus, the net effect is that the company will receive 5 million. kr less in network rental over time than if the interruption in Steigen had not happened. So this is in addition to the 10 million they have already paid in compensation for their customers. The company must therefore take the greater part of the financial burden of the event in winter. However, there is no basis for predicting the evolution of the network rental of Nord-Salten Kraftlag in the future. The development of network rentals will also depend on other conditions, including: developments in the company's other costs in the future. The infringement fee notified by the NVE in the absence of control and maintenance of the lines of the company will have no impact on the development of the network lease. It is clear from the regulations in force that this cannot in any way be included in the basis of calculation of the network lease. However, the issue raised by the representative is highly relevant. Is it reasonable that, in the next round, the compensation payable for interruption should be partly financed by the same consumers who have received this network lease? That's the arrangement today. But on the basis of that event and what we have seen here, I will go into this and reconsider whether this is reasonable, and whether there are other ways to take care of both the customers and the security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e754	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and thank you for his positive response regarding my request to enter into this problem in the light of the experiences that have been made in the Steigen. What's a little bit of the main challenge here is that so many subscribers in the supply area fall out at the same time, and so it's the same as having to take the bill. There's a completely different situation than if an equivalent number of subscribers had fallen into an area like this. Oslo. I hope the Council of State can confirm that one of the reviews carried out by the NVE will assess whether there are aspects of the regional outbursts in an area with as few subscribers as this is about, which one must take into account in such a review. Then there's another problem that I want the Council of State to go into. It is: when the compensation paid here was paid to the municipality, it was of the same size – NOK 6600 – as for other subscribers, despite the fact that the municipality had a number of housing units and other units behind the subscription.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e761	There is a completely different problem that is quite complicated to go into, and where to ask the question: Should there be a subscriber who gets compensation, or should the compensation be given in relation to consumption? The regulation is quite clear there, it is every subscriber who gets compensation. The representative is quite right that this can be viewed in many ways as a special case. There are a large number of subscribers in one area affected. So it's essentially the same people, the same subscribers, who get compensation that will have to be involved and pay this back the next time. It may show that the design has not been entirely in line with what was meant when you made this regulation. That's also the basis for me to do a new assessment, and then we'll see what's going to happen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e768	Can the Council of State confirm that, in the review to be carried out now, this 24-hour event, which had a dramatic impact, will be a central element of the basis for an assessment of the potential need for adjustments to current regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e774	I can confirm that -- it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e783	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘Recently, there has been a good deal of public attention to Telenor’s decision to merge the Information 1881 with the company Carrot Communications, and to Hydro’s announced sale or listing of Hydro Polymers. The government has said in the ownership message that this government's ownership policy is far more active than what the country's ownership policy has been in the past. According to the Government, what is the practical consequence of this much more active ownership policy in these two specific cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e792	The government has an active enterprise policy and ownership policy that are concrete in the ownership notification. The government has made concrete the objectives of ownership, divided the companies into four categories and introduced new management wage policies. Spring general meetings show that leadership wage policy has had a significant impact. There are a number of other examples of active ownership: the government has quoted Cermaq, purchased shares in Nammo, contributed to industrial solutions for BaneTele and StatoilHydro, and in the revised national budget proposed new capital to the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani. The government has said that the ownership of the State should be managed in line with the role of share law withdrawal. I point out that a Joint Nutrition Committee in its position stated that ‘in line with the principle of sound ownership, the State will give its signals to the Governing Board in line with the decision-making rules of the Share Law’. The board must then balance the recordings they receive and make the final decision. I note that this is precisely what Telenor's regime has done. A few months ago, it seemed that Telenor would sell the Information in 1881. After the government's recording, a solution has been chosen in which Telenor continues as the owner of the Information 1881 together with other Norwegian interests, although Telenor has itself confirmed that they had an offer to sell to foreign buyers with good profit. Hydro Polymers is an important activity in the Border Region which is central to the further processing of North Sea gas raw materials. Therefore, I have been concerned that there is a ownership of the polymer business that can help it become a central player in the further development of the Norwegian petrochemical industry. I have said that if a solution is chosen other than a stock exchange introduction, it must be because it is a better industrial solution. Now that Hydro has chosen to sell to INEOS, I will meet the new owner to get information about their plans for the business in Grenland. I assume that the further development of the company takes place in close cooperation with employees and trustees locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e805	I thank the Minister for the answer. At the same time, I have to say that it seems to me that the Government and the Minister of Industry still have considerable problems explaining what is a much more active industrial policy, and what it actually means in practice, so that ordinary people, not least the employees of the companies concerned, understand it. There is considerable concern about the very promises that they believe have been made by the current government. In connection with Hydro's sale of Polymers to INEOS, the Minister for Industry to NTB stated: «The active ownership of the Member States is not exercised in individual cases.» Further: ‘The roll distribution is ready. The Government shall not determine in individual cases. The Governing Board shall do so.’;» Is that the much more active business policy? Have they made mistakes that thought it was just in individual cases this was to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e823	The opinion on the division of roles between the owner of the general meeting, the business meeting and the board of directors and the tasks assigned to them. It is practiced entirely in line with what we said in the ownership message, and that got unanimous support. So the representative asks Sahl about the active business policy, and that is far more than ownership policy. It is the strong improvement for the shipping industry that this government has introduced in relation to the previous government and the importance it has for the entire maritime cluster. It is the doubling of efforts in the tourism industry that this government has made in relation to the previous one. There are new initiatives in Innovation Norway, SIVA and the Research Council to contribute to economic development in Norway. There are many elements in addition to those of the active enterprise policy. With regard to ownership policy, which is one of the elements of that industrial policy, it is new that we have clear expectations of the industrial development of each company in terms of ownership. It's completely new. It was perceived as quite perceptive when it was presented, and it will be followed up by assessment of the board, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e832	The Prime Minister was confronted with the same question in the spontaneous questionnaire. The conclusion of it, as I can draw the active one here, is: in principle, we never said what we said in the election campaign. When the trust elected both in the Information 1881 and Hydro Polymers are very disappointed by what they think is the Government's passivity in these matters, does the Minister of Industry think that they should understand better what an active red-green ownership policy was all about, as the Prime Minister also suggested in the spontaneous Question Time? Or does the Minister of Industry notice that the actual content of such a policy may have been communicated slightly distorted by representatives of the government parties before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e839	If I am allowed to say that, it almost seems as if the follow-up question was written before I answered – because I have answered that question. With regard to the information in 1881 and the result in the case of Hydro Polymers, there are two completely different conclusions. So in the case of 1881, Telenor intended to sell 1881. We know that they had an offer from foreign buyers who were willing to pay well and that would give good results for Telenor financially. Due to clear signals, inter alia: Thus, through the ownership message, they have chosen instead of selling to buy up another Norwegian company. They will then have a smaller ownership, but it will be a Norwegian company that has the ambition to guarantee all the call centres in Norway, guarantee the jobs that are there today, and further develop the company. That's the opposite conclusion of what it was to from Telenor originally. It is then that it proves that the owner's views have not been breached in that case, as confirmed by the company itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e851	This question, from the representative Borghild Tende to the Minister for Transport, is raised by the representative Inge Hallgeir Solli.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e854	‘EuroTAP has tested security 51 tunnels in 14 European countries. The Hagan tunnel in Akershus is among the seven tunnels that are characterised as «very poor». This is a one-way tunnel with no physical middle parts. No restrictions have been imposed on the transport of dangerous goods. Does the Council of State consider that the Norwegian tunnel safety standards adequately safeguard safety and should immediate action be taken to improve the safety of the Hagan tunnel and other Norwegian tunnels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e861	EuroTAP, a programme for the assessment of safety in tunnels, is carried out under the auspices of the International Motor Organisation (FIA). From 2005 to 2007, the organisation has received financial support from the EU. I am informed that there is a problem between, among other things. the tunnel committee of the PIARC, the World Road Association, and the FIA on the criteria used in the investigation. The state road service is also disparate in several of the criteria, but has nevertheless chosen to facilitate the test. The state road system and the top level of competence in the tunnel area in Europe believe that one must use the EU's tunnel directive as the basis for the test. EuroTAP goes beyond the Directive in terms of equipment and equipment requirements. Nor, according to Norwegian opinion, is there a sufficient distinction between high-traffic tunnels, such as those in central parts of Europe, and those in Norwegian tunnels other than cities. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003–04, National Transport Plan 2006–2015, a framework of 170 million. kr per. years for the security upgrade and replacement of old tunnel equipment. There is a considerable height for meeting new requirements as provided for by the Tunnel Directive. It is as the Stortinget is familiar with, several years of implementation of the new requirements of the Directive. As the new emergency network for printing states is developed, which will increase security, additional investment in the tunnels will be needed. Tunneling works have several sides. It prevents meeting collisions, but may also prevent road users from turning and running out of the tunnel in case something should happen, and may hamper the rescue efforts of the fire and ambulance services. The state road service therefore does not recommend a pitfall in tunnels. Dangerous goods in tunnels or on bypasses are included in an assessment which is usually discussed with local firefighter and police when a contingency plan is prepared for each tunnel. I can mention the introduction of new ADR rules, rules for dangerous goods, for all tunnels, and there must therefore be new assessments for all Norwegian tunnels. In a few years, the Hagan Tunnel will be upgraded to meet the requirement of the EU Directive on minimum safety in road tunnels. The state road service has been in contact with the municipality of Nittedal to provide information on the plans for upgrading. The grass in the Oslofjord tunnel in the summer of 2003 passed through the vault and has several similarities with one that happened in the Hanekleiv tunnel, although the size was smaller. At that time, the Ministry of Transport did not play a central role in the investigation of the cause of the breed and did not require the investigation or inspection of the other tunnels in the country or in the neighbourhood with similar geographical conditions. On the other hand, an external investigation group was set up after the crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel, and the Directorate of Road was commissioned to inspect all road tunnels in the country. The regional roadside offices have now reported back on their inspection status and plans. This is a comprehensive work that is well underway. Work will provide a good overview of the state and any need for improvement. The inspections and the results of the work of the external investigation team and the various working groups formed following the fall of the Hanekleiv tunnel will contribute to increasing the safety of Norwegian tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e882	Thanks for the answer. It is true that the study imposes strict requirements and in some areas stricter requirements than what we find in the EU Directive. The Hagan tunnel in Akershus opened in 2003 and the traffic of 13 500 vehicles per day. The tunnel has one running and is built according to the guidelines in force in 2003. One-pass tunnels provide lower escape routes and the consequences of accidents will be greater in a tunnel than outside. According to the Norwegian Road Service, the Norwegian tunnel safety requirements have been raised so that the Hagan tunnel would be built with two runs today. I therefore ask the Council of State: is it relevant to provide funds to the Hagan tunnel so that it can be set up two races, and that one thus can satisfy today's Norwegian legislation at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e891	The reason why Norwegian tunnels come out of the EuroTAP test is mainly because we use asphalt on the roadway in our tunnels and get minus for it, which is what the Road Directorate thinks is the wrong criterion. PIARC, the World Road Organization, to which I also referred, has produced a report that shows that in none of the fires that have been in the tunnels, the asphalt has done something significant to exacerbate the situation. Another reason is emergency exits. In Norway, only two separate tunnels have emergency exits, with a few exceptions. And that also gives us a negative. In addition, it's about poor lighting. The Hagan tunnel is on the list of tunnels to be upgraded in line with the EU Tunnel Directive. There are no plans per. today to supply funds to two-pass tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e898	It must be possible to implement some immediate measures to improve tunnel safety in the short term. It is such that the tunnel cross-section in the Hagan tunnel is too small to be mid- or mid-field, but road authorities should consider the barrier line and/or field dividers in plastics. Better signage of emergency pockets, ban on tractors and prohibition of transporting dangerous goods in the tunnel are measures that should be considered. The councils were in and out on some of these. Other measures are better light in emergency pockets and closer video surveillance than every 200 to 250 metres, as is currently the case. All national road tunnels shall be upgraded within 10 years of the EU Directive. I therefore ask the Council of State whether there are resources available to implement immediate action in the Hagan tunnel and whether there are resources to implement the upgrading of tunnels in Norway under the EU Directive over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e907	There is a major effort to review Norwegian tunnels and inspect them to see what upgrade needs. Of course, the Hagan tunnel is part of those plans. It has been, as I referred to in my main response, a meeting with the municipality of Nittedal, where one has informed about the plans and the time perspective for improving that tunnel. So I have full confidence that the Hagan tunnel is going to be upgraded to the new security standard. This is to be done in line with the timelines that have been created, and, as I referred to it, 170 million have been added. kr annually for this work. The upgrade required by the EU Tunnel Directive shall have a taken height.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e916	‘The Research Organisation SINTEF, in its February 2007 report, has examined environmental impacts of better roads. The conclusions are clear; better roads provide more efficient transport and, at the same time, lower emissions of gas and dust. From planning and development, we know that in Norway we are building new roads for lower traffic and traffic growth than we know we actually have. How will the Council of State ensure the necessary capacity increase on the roads in order to achieve the reduction in gas and dust emissions that researchers have demonstrated is then possible?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e923	The research report from SINTEF is an interesting reading. He sees things. gas emissions are at least when motor vehicle traffic keeps a steady speed around 70 km per hour. This applies in particular to gases that may be a health problem in cities and agglomerations, but also to CO2 emissions that lead to global warming. This is known knowledge, which has been incorporated into the impact assessment methodology of the State Road Service, but which has been underfocused to date. However, road development is not always good for the environment. In cities above a certain size, increasing road capacity often leads to a change in means of travel, with increased traffic and no or small time gains for road users as a result, and no environmental benefit. In its report, Sintef mentioned this problem, and wrote that a strategy in urban areas could be to ensure a balance between supply and demand in such a way as to provide good traffic flow. Verkemmendla SINTEF refers to as an alternative to increased road capacity in metropolitan areas, road pricing, regulation of the number of parking spaces, parking charges, control of the arrival of high traffic, tolls, fuel charges and intelligent transport systems. The planning of new roads places great emphasis on achieving good traffic flow. According to public road construction regulations, new roads shall be dimensionalised according to traffic forecasts 20 years after the opening of the road. Based on what I have just said, the conclusions of the SINTEF report are not so clear and simple that increasing road capacity everywhere reduces air pollution, as the representative suggests in his question. The report is relatively clear in its underpinning of good environmental impacts of narrow and fluctuating roads in the districts, but not in the metropolitan areas. This is research which is also supported by the corresponding results internationally. We must therefore have different strategies for the urban areas and the country otherwise. Transport and environmental challenges must be addressed in an interaction between different instruments, through the priorities set out in the national transport plan, and through the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e937	Thanks for the answer. There is currently both a climate debate and an environmental debate, and it is important that we then pair our legs and arms so that things are done in a good way. In this context, this report is important, because it points to aspects of road traffic which may have been pushed away and delayed, but which are demonstrably present, namely that better capacity provides better flow and less emissions. It is also the case that the Government has submitted St.meld. No 26 on the government's environmental policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. It is shown, among others: to the climate and energy action plan for Oslo, Akershus and Buskerud, and one of the listed measures is a smaller capacity increase on the road network. It is also important for the country as a whole that there is good capacity on the central highway network, also in and around cities. Is less capacity-enhanced on the road network also the government's policy in relation to the major challenges facing the road sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e948	As soon as I took over the chair in the Ministry of Transport, I have been clear that we need a two-part transport policy. I've also said this in Stortinget at more times. In and around the big cities, we need to invest in an entirely different and stronger way in increased collective provision, and we need to use more means in those parts of the country where collective transport will never be an adequate alternative, even with some test crowns for smart solutions in the districts. The SINTEF report is very clear on the way in which the capacity of the most trafficked people works, and it works in a completely different way from that of the intermediate roads, such as the E6 in Gudbrandsdalen and the E6 further northwards and the E39 — I could ram many of the intermediate roads — and the smaller roads in the districts. So here, one has to differentiate. But the government will not stop capacity improvement around the cities. We have traffic going both to and through the big cities. We have to look for a balance sheet, as it says in the SINTEF report, in traffic in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e955	Differentiation should and should be linked to an overall vision and a coordinated vision. So we'll come back to the fact that it's really important for value creation in the country as a whole, even in the districts, that we have a well-functioning road network in central lines. The business community knows that roads are important for value creation. Truck and van transport is the most important mode of transport. Business itself says that the impact of the main road network on competitiveness will increase in the coming years. Efficient roads are safe roads, with fewer fatalities and fewer injuries. Efficient roads are also more environmentally friendly roads with less emissions. Should this not have consequences for the dimensioning of the main road network also around the big cities, so that we get a well-functioning main road network in all parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e962	The government is in the process of implementing the National Transport Plan, and unlike the previous government, which was supported by the Progress Party, we are at least in 2007 on the roadside licensing framework. A very large part of the permissions are just about to build capacity into not least the Oslo region. It's about E18, E6 – and it's going south, northward, west and east. I agree with the representative that we should also have good links around and in with the big cities, but it does not have one-sidedness to do with road construction. One can only travel to the big million cities around the world to see what an extension from four to six and eight fields lead to. This leads to a huge increase in car traffic. So we have to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time. In addition to being well-functioning, we also need to focus much more on public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e973	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «Roadway 3 in Hedmark has been marked by many accidents for many years, including death. Measures now announced to reduce this are, among other things, lower speed limits. This will probably help, but the state of the road also has a major impact on the high accident rate. Will the Council of State contribute to the introduction of increased funds into this important year of mobility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e982	Occurrence situation on the national road network and on Rv. 3 was relatively stable and declining between 1997 and 2005. In 2006, however, there were nine killed and fourteen severely injured people on Rv. 3 in Hedmark. This is alarming. I am, as the representative of Bredvold, busy with road safety and will continue to work with road safety on the Norwegian road in both the short and long term. In the short term, it is necessary, inter alia, to: reduced speed limits shall be assessed. In the longer term, the need for infrastructure measures is central. The government knows the value as rv. For the transport of goods from central Norway to the central parts of the country. Heavy long-distance traffic has increased in recent years, and Rv. 3 has been more important as a heavy transport route. Traffic to Kongswingergebiet and South Sweden use rv. 3 in combination with rv. 20 and Rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government records an increasing demand for improvement. 3rd@item: inlistbox However, I emphasise the decision of the county council in Hedmark on 17 January this year to continue to serve as the basis for Hedmark’s priorities towards NTP for the period 2010–2019. Hedmark also decided to extend the wide extension project. The last time the government tried to follow up. by opening the Government of the State Budget for 2007 to assess whether it is possible to proceed with the Wide Extension Project on Rv. 3, if there are savings on the priority tribal pathways in the county. However, it is worth noting that Hedmark County has not given priority to this road section during the 2006–2009 planning period. I would like to take action to assess measures in the field of justice. 3 in connection with the National Transport Plan Report 2010–2019, also based on road safety. It is a transport policy objective to assess the correlation between investment on different national roads in the transport corridors. Priorities in R & D 3 will therefore be linked to the priorities of E6 between Oslo and Trondheim. Transport budgets will present their draft National Transport Plan 2010–2019 round the turn of the year 2007/2008, and the Government will present the Landfill Communication around the turn of the year 2008/2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e991	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was very much in the future. It doesn't look much like what I heard in the election campaign two years ago when the Central Party's current representative of big business traveled around the county and promised a minimum of 100 million. kr per. years of increase in rv. 3 - 100 million. kr per. years. It's been two years, so there's at least 200 million missing. kr in relation to the election campaign. In an accident analysis that came here by day, which I hope the Council of State has or at least gets access to, and reads, it says the following: ‘Unfortunate developments along Rv 3 are worrying. The proportion of fatalities and injuries is high.» If you're looking a little bit further, it says, ‘The accident reports for the 10-year period 1997-2006 show that 43 people were killed, 85 were seriously injured and 895 were more easily injured in 599 road accidents.’ This shows that there is a dangerous road to drive on, and there is a road section that sorely needs funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1008	I guess it's not that much to comment on, except that what is referred to from that report is right, and that I have the report, and I also read in it. We have to look at the different corridors in context. Based on the look-up in Hamar Arbeiderblad, I see that on E6 there are four times as many heavy traffic as on Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox I assume that there is one reason why Hedmark County, together with Uppland, has prioritised as they do, and of the two parallel roads in this transport corridor, Hedmark County has chosen to focus on E6. We're coming back to our NTP priorities. I must also remind the representative of Bredvold that there have been many promises in the election campaign from different parties. I think the Progress Party was also out there promising different things that they don't comply with, not because they're not in government, but because they don't compromise with the government party on important issues either. It is also a way of getting through rather than just running a purely opposition policy, where the most important thing is to make your own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1017	I thank the Council of State for that. In the case of rv. 3, it has annual traffic of 14 000 vehicles and downwards. At the same time you know that 30 pst. of which these are long vehicles, i.e. large trucks. There is a reason large trucks are running rv. 3 instead of other roads. In an article in Hamar Arbeiderblad on Tuesday 15 May, which I also encourage the Council of State to read, it says among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The accidents on highway 3 in the last ten years have incurred 2,6 billion dollars in expenditure in society. It is real economic costs and welfare losses. In addition, accidents involving only material damage occur.’;» One thing is the human damage, as well as the material damage. It should be good economy to repair a road, so that the material damage was also reduced. [[The President clubs.]] I'm talking about $2.6 billion. You get a lot of road for $2.6 billion: $3,800 meters per. Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location. [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1031	The President will remember the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1034	The representative of Bredvold has a very good point when he says that by preventing traffic accidents, we can save both the individual and society a lot of money. I'm also busy with that. We look closely at the unclosed roads that we have around the country. It's an important piece when we're prioritizing which path to further expand. Then it's so sad that there's a lot of unclosed sections. Rv. 3 is considered by us to be both an important road and a road where we have to continue with the wide extension project. It gave us clear expression in the 2007 budget, with the speeches made by the Government there. I don't have much more to add than that. 3 we will also focus on further work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1047	This question, from the representative Inge Wohnning to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1050	I have this question addressed to the person: «In budget entry. S. No 6 decided to grant 604 million. kr for health and rehabilitation measures for the sick. [[2006-2007]] 374 million. kr has been transferred to the regional health establishments. The National Centre of Competence for Labour Rehabilitation in Rauland has established a network of activities in this area, as per Week 15 d.a. had 125 beds available because of it. limited agreements with the RHFs. Can the Councils explain how the RHFs manage the funds allocated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1059	As the representative knows, the hospitals have received additional funds for the current year in two rounds, only in January, and then a further 374 million. available to the regional health establishments of the representative of the payroll. The purpose of the scheme is to get sick people back to work more quickly, so that their sick leave can be reduced. It is a requirement that patients covered by the scheme are likely to return to work more quickly as a direct consequence of the treatment they receive. The specialist health service is supposed to be able to offer evaluation and treatment throughout the range of services. It is the content of the service and not the ownership of the service that will determine who will produce the service. This means that both public and private actors are involved as service producers, and regional health businesses are required to assess what is most effective in getting sick people back to work as soon as possible. I would also like to emphasise here in particular that the competence of the different institutions within, among other things, labour-oriented rehabilitation is a very important competence, which the Government also wants to exploit for what we are talking about here. In addition, there was an additional 65 million. kr to the regional health establishments to be used for so-called grey zone problems. These are those in border countries between labour-oriented rehabilitation and health-related rehabilitation, i.e. target groups where it is important that several agencies cooperate well in order to succeed. Of course, when purchasing services from private operators, public procurement legislation shall be followed. Regional health establishments may use funds to use available capacity or to strengthen capacity in their own hospitals. Preliminary figures from the Social and Health Directorate show that up to 89 pst. of the patients referred to individual hospitals are new patients, i.e. patients who have not previously been referred to specialist healthcare. A monitoring of regional health establishments shows that multidisciplinary and cross-specialised outpatient clinics will often be most appropriate to meet the needs of rehabilitation centres. Regional health enterprises are working on projects to provide healthcare to people with complex and chronic diseases. It is assumed that regional health enterprises report to the Ministry on the use of these funds. We're going to follow it very closely. The Directorate for Social and Health is responsible for monitoring the development of the scheme in line with its objective and for notifying it if additional or corrective measures of a managerial or other nature are needed. The allocation of funds for 2007 focused on the rapid start-up of the scheme. A relatively large proportion of the funds for 2007 were therefore allocated to the regional health establishments, which are already in the process of treating the sick persons included in the scheme. The State of employment and welfare needs a little longer time to start up. The system of health and rehabilitation services for sick persons shall be evaluated and the results shall be used to improve the en route system. I am aware that there is a network of so-called ARR institutions – labour-oriented rehabilitation. Most of these institutions offer training and rehabilitation to different target groups, including: people working for the purpose of rehabilitation. In some ARR institutions and in some other institutions, places have not been used in full, as the representative also points out. The number of employees in the institutions is adapted to the number of contracted posts. If the institutions wish to offer new places, or use unaccompanied places, it is often necessary to increase professional staffing. So in the case of the so-called grey zoning agents, 65 million. kr, the regional health companies report that they want to cooperate with the private providers, and that includes just a part of the ARR institutions that I believe the representative is also involved in. In other words, it's going to be very likely to be used in several places during this year, even within the institutions mentioned here. In the case of Rauland in particular, I have been informed by Health South that the Attangungszentrum in Rauland can apply to re-dispose the funds they have received. They have received a special pot at the disposal of the Stortinget that can be used for patient treatment. This means that there may be more places and treatment at the centre of Rauland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1085	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I noticed that the Council of State several times in its response emphasized that the purpose of these 604 million. kr is to be given rapid treatment, which should quickly bring people back to work. Now, together with his colleague, the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, the Council of State sent out a press release at the end of April that announced as a joyous news that the first patient – one patient – had been treated using these funds after four months. I guess it can't be characterized as very fast. Doesn't the Council of State also mean that if the intention is to act quickly to help people, would it have been a better priority to use the available capacity that actually stands there?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1097	Now it's actually like this, despite the fact that the representative's salary interprets it as if it were still just one that's been under this scheme, that it's not right. It is true that the first patient was treated then, and the representative, who has been involved in politics for a long time, knows that to get as big and comprehensive a case as this to succeed, it also requires that you be prepared for it in order to get it into practice. Now there's a lot more inside of this. We're very pleased about that, and we think this should go much faster in the future. Then I just want to state that in 2007, i.e. for the current year, it will be spent over NOK 1.1 billion on the purchase of places at private training institutions. Despite the fact that the Right in many rounds is trying to make it look like it's cut in the rehabilitation offer, that's the opposite of it. It's an increase of over 14 pst. from 2005. At the same time, the offer of rehabilitation has also increased sharply in our hospitals in line with what the Government has ordered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1104	I found that it can't be called very quickly when it comes to an extraordinary allocation that you know was there for a year, that you spend four whole months of the calendar year to get so far that some of these heads are used at all. But the important question is this: Is the general guideline set out in the Soria Moria Declaration applicable: is it asking regional health companies to use as little as possible and to slow down the use of private institutions, including these exceptional means? It is a fact that when it comes to the use of private training institutions, the official statistics for 2006, which is the last one we have, show a decline of 16 pst. That's a pretty significant number. It is also a fact that more and more of these institutions around the country are about to give up because of starvation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1111	I record that the representative's salary again uses this opportunity to try to create an image that does not actually match reality. Firstly, the representative knows pay very well, and I also emphasised it in my reply today, that when it comes to faster return to work, we have said that it is not who owns the service that is important, but that is the content that is important. This means that you can use both public and private providers. That also means that we can and will use several of the places in private training institutions. And it's not right, as the representative of Wage claims, that in terms of money, there has been a decline in the use of private training institutions. There has been an increase of 14.2 pst between 2005 and 2007. So we're going to increase this further. And I am absolutely sure that the representative of Wage and others will see that many of the institutions that are also involved in labour-oriented rehabilitation will benefit from it in that more people will receive treatment there in the year we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1122	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Inclusion the following questions: «In the newspaper on 14 May, it is stated that today only the authorities of the congregation lay the foundations of the religious leaders. However, in the 2005 state budget, there was a need to strengthen the training of community skills for religious leaders and to complete the training with exams. From 1 September 2005, imamene was required to carry out 250 hours in Norwegian and 50 hours in social knowledge. In what way do the Government follow up the decisions of magnificence on training for religious leaders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1131	Let me start by saying that it is true, what the questioner says is that from 1 September 2005, all immigrants were given residence or work permits, which form the basis of residence permits, the right and obligation to participate in 300 hours of training in Norwegian and social knowledge. This includes those who have received a work permit on the basis of a work relationship as a religious leader. The challenge is mainly due to the fact that someone arrived before that time and is not covered by this. However, the starting point for the question is important in relation to the right and obligation to participate in 300 hours of training in Norwegian and social knowledge. With the support of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the project is being developed and implemented in the period 2006–08 – a project that has thus started and is to go further – a pilot project at the University of Oslo with a modular training programme for religious leaders. The overall objective is that training, inter alia: shall contribute to preventing religious leaders with a migrant background from providing advice or information contrary to fundamental values in society and in Norwegian legislation. The training should therefore provide knowledge of Norwegian social conditions and provide an understanding of the basic values on which Norwegian society is based. It will further provide insight and reflection on what religious and moral counseling involves in a pluralistic society. This specific training aimed at religious leaders must, in their content and form, enable participants to acquire knowledge and understanding in accordance with the three main points of the objective. From this point of view, three modules have been developed for the pilot project at the University of Oslo, and up to 20 hours of instruction are provided in each module. It is added that one of the modules is based on dialogue across different religions. The question of whether specific training in social skills for religious leaders should be made compulsory is under investigation in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, but we would like to conclude that question only after we have gained some experience relating to the new offer, which is thus being prepared by the University of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1144	I thank you for the answer, but I have something surprising left. It is good that a pilot project has been launched to run from 2006 to 2008, but my question is whether it is sufficient, given the fact that the previous bulk of the population, across all batches, focused strongly on this matter and considered it to be very important and that this should be mandatory. My question to the Council of State is: Is this what the current government has done in the last two years, enough to ensure that the majority of the population decided and thought in the previous period? And: To what extent is the pilot project now under way sufficient to meet the needs of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1158	At least I choose to have an open mind in relation to this. It is difficult to answer exactly the questions before we have any experience with the new scheme. But I think the content of this arrangement from the University of Oslo seems exciting. Providing knowledge of Norwegian social conditions, understanding the basic values on which Norwegian society is based, and giving insight and reflection on what religious and moral advice involves in a pluralistic society, I seem to be a wise approach to these challenges. I experience that religious leaders, for example. imamene, is positive to what the University of Oslo is developing, and is active in relation to being able to participate in it. Then we have to gain experience before we can conclude whether this is good enough, or whether something more is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1165	Governments underlined the importance of imams. I can't agree with that enough. I think that the imams have a more important role in the churches than what we might think about every day. For this reason, it is very important that imams receive good language training, good social skills and, above all, a sense of community. Then we're into our society and the Norwegian values. We know – and it affects some imams – that in certain cultures there are uncultures such as circumcision and forcibleness, which are prohibited by Norwegian law, and which it is important that we engage in dialogue with the imams about to end. Then my last question will be to the Council of State: To what extent has the Council of State taken initiative in relation to the imams in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1170	As the first state council, I have taken the initiative to set up a dialogue forum between myself and the imams in Norway. I have already completed two meetings in this Dialogue Forum and will have a third meeting before the summer. We have established a permanent forum for cooperation between myself, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the imams in Norway. In this area, we have taken very clear and clear initiatives. I agree that it is important to have a good and close dialogue with these kinds of religious leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1179	Without prejudice to a possible successful police action, I have the pleasure of asking the following questions, which the Council of State may perceive as a gift package: ‘The Councils of State and Representatives of the Government Parties have on a number of occasions promoted the established ‘Regulatory project’ in Oslo, Rome, Follo and Asker and Bærum Police District as a good and successful project. However, several who work in the field express that efforts have contributed to representatives of, for example: The A- and B- thread now cooperates, and that it does not have a significant preventive effect in relation to new recruitment. Can the Council of State explain more specifically the effects of this replication project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1188	I thank you for the question. Just to repeat, all issues to the Justice Policy Government are seen as gift packages, because we have clear and clear priorities here, and also clear and clear commitment. In my opinion, there is no doubt that the criminal gangs in Oslo are involved in very serious crime, which is also a challenge to the fight against crime by the police and affects the citizens' perceived and actual security. The police have therefore, over several years, actively sought to prevent and combat recriminal crime in Oslo. At the centre of the work on the gangs is a broad survey of the communities involved, their composition and how they work. Similarly, it is necessary to further develop cross-border cooperation between social actions, child protection, tax authorities, prison services, etc. However, the complexity and diversity of criminal activities of the reindeer are a resource-intensive challenge in several ways. The type of crime we have seen in the rest of the world requires a great deal of effort and attention from all responsible authorities. The tour project in the capital area, which is a very important project for the Government, was established after the shooting at Aker Brygge in Oslo. The project is managed by the Oslo police district, but there is a basis for pointing out that there is participation from Asker and Bærum, Romerike and Follo police districts as well as KRIPOS and Ecokrim. The aim is to coordinate a joint effort to combat recriminal crime in and around Oslo. In total, approx. 127 people worked with the full-time project – per year. January now this year. The Police Directorate granted an extra 6 million in 2006. kr for the project – an allocation continued this year – in addition to all the resources initially used in the project. The Police Directorate therefore has a key role to play in coordinating the project. In this work, it has been suggested that the police should have a visible and direct response to undesirable behaviour and crime. I have been informed by the Police Directorate that the police through the establishment of the rendition project have further improved their knowledge and understanding of the criminal gangs. They've got a better basis for fact. As a result of the implementation of the project, concrete strategic and practical objectives have been developed, based on the knowledge gained. I'm informed that it's the police's clear impression – and also means to experience the sea – that the criminal activity in the gangs after the project was started is reduced, in relation to the number of episodes and 'incidents' where we see that gangs have been involved and it's visible outside the community. I believe that this affects the crime scene in general because the gangs are heavily involved in many types of criminal relationships, and that it matters in terms of, among other things. efforts against repeaters, but also in relation to other serious crime. A central strategy for the police is to prevent new recruitment to the rest of the world. From the Oslo Police District it has been expressed to the Police Directorate that it now seems less attractive, while at the same time being associated with greater risks, to be associated with the criminal gangs. The potential for new recruitment appears to be weakened as a result of the intensified efforts that have taken place over time. Not as many people are recruited to the established gangs as before. We do not know that efforts against the rest of the world lead to changing or expanding patterns of cooperation within the rest of the world. The targeted actions recently carried out both in Oslo and in Brazil are part of the reinforced response to the insurgent environment and the crime they commit. In my opinion, the effort must be so far characterised as successful, but I have to bear in mind that it has not yet been judged, and we have to wait for both the results of the judgements and the question of how to recover the money. It is an important objective that crime should not pay off. I said in Stortinget early after we joined, that we will bet on withdrawing more money, seizing money, which is the artery of much of this type of crime. That is why I am pleased that the police are now focusing heavily on making the dividend, whether it is in the form of cash or apartments or what it might be. I think this will have a big impact on the recruitment of the people in the future. Of course, it's too early to draw final conclusions about the longer-term effect of this work, but I'm not hiding that in the government we are very proud of the job that the police are doing. We believe that the police are absolutely on the right track, and that this is a good response to the policy of the Government to create a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1207	I thank you for your answer. Yesterday, in various media, it was almost haphazardly said that gangs were something to be reckoned with, that you could never expect to achieve the perfect society. At least I'm glad that the Council of State, like the Right, does not adopt that attitude, which is in reality a trivialisation of recruitment for gross crime, and perhaps organized crime later on. The main challenge, which is also addressed by the Council of State, is to ensure that new recruiting to gangs is prevented, which is likely to start small on the outskirts of Oslo and Akershus and gradually move inward towards the centre and upwards in the criminal hierarchy. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that the replication project is further and more focused on being environmentally oriented — in the past — so that ultimately you will not have the opportunity to buy luxury apartments in Brazil? I want to say, the earlier you get to take someone, the better. You've got someone taken now, and it might seem scary for those who've gotten high up in the hierarchy. But the point must be to prevent those who are already on the go, to invest for the future and for ten years to come, so that you don't get this kind of problem back, where it seems you've taken a lot now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1216	One of the reasons that the government wanted to launch this project – where we have a good cooperation between the special unit in the police and these police districts involved – was that we should focus on punishment, but also detention. It is clear that it affects those who have come up high in the hierarchy, but the function of punishment and detention is to a very high degree general preventive, in the sense that it works preventively in relation to how tempting it is to be in these environments. When you see those who run around with great cars while they're on social welfare, and those who invest a lot of money abroad are actually being researched and organized, and you lose these funds, it'll be less attractive to be part of such environments. I believe that there is one of the supports in preventing new recruitment. And then it's absolutely crucial, as the representative also has it, that we now get to work together with school, with other authorities, child protection and others that can give us important input and important contributions to make it less attractive to leave the social status you have, that you actually stay in high school and not be able to recruit to these environments. So I think it's also right to look at it wide.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1221	That is where we fully agree with the Government. In an interpellation debate yesterday, I pointed out Youth against Vold's warnings against a ticking integration bomb with rushes, psychiatry, violence and other crime. Marginalized youth is looking for what we don't want, and when we get more and more adult voids, it's a challenge to do something for them. Finally, it could be useful to know what the government will do to build on, for example, environmental and preventive work. Young people against violence’s experiences and competences, which in part differ slightly from, for example: the things that came from the police now. And not least, what will the government actually do to increase the number of public employees, who are put in place to help children and young people, actually also do it to meet the young people involved, and not just behind the PC?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1228	We have a close cooperation with Youth Against Violence. I've met them several times. We're going to strengthen the appropriations for Youth Against Violence, and we're going to grab hold of it there now before summer. That's what I'm saying right over here, because we see that Youth Against Violence plays a very important role in these environments. But we also see that Youth vs. Violence is doing a very good job with, among other things. implementing community penalties for a good part of the boys who could be involved in recruiting the gangs. So that's where we take concrete action. We have a good co-player in Youth Against Violence. Then I would also like to point out what we are doing now in relation to the criminal justice system: all those in the gangs, and those who are on the way into the gangs, and who get convictions, are now going to prisons in the criminal justice system where you actually get training. During this year – I have said in the past that it will happen during 2008, but I break the promise in the sense that we will do it faster – we will offer all prisons in Norway the opportunity to set up educational services, so that those who have dropped out of high school and are relevant to, among others. repeats, at least be able to meet training offers when entering and serving less serious and more serious judgments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1239	‘It is clear from the Health Authority Report 4/2007 that a country-wide surveillance of the paediatric habilitation service has revealed significant deficiencies in the offer. The follow-up fails in three out of four supervised municipalities, and as a result, many parents must be coordinators in relation to different assistance services. The provision of specialist health services is not equivalent throughout the country. What concrete action will the Council of State take to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation services to children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1246	Let me first say that I'm taking this very seriously. I am concerned that the children and the parents we are talking about here will have good and safe offers. The Soria Moria Declaration makes it clear that the Government will work to ensure that young people with disabilities and chronic diseases receive a good and multidisciplinary rehabilitation offer. Then we record that the situation is not like that in the whole country. The 2006 ordering document for regional health enterprises specifies that they should give priority to the provision of services in the area of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, in order to strengthen and expand patient provision. It has also been said that special attention should be paid to the habilitation of children. The mission document for the current year aims to provide all users in need of specialised rehabilitation or rehabilitation measures with appropriate measures. There are now about 30 projects in the field of child rehabilitation. Most of them will in principle end in 2007. These development projects have helped to increase knowledge and strengthen the services of specialist health services. Regional health establishments shall use the experience and knowledge acquired through these projects to develop equivalent services and which actually work for them. In the letter of assignment to the Social and Health Directorate, the Directorate has been instructed to continue the work on professional guidance material for rehabilitation and rehabilitation in order to counteract the inequality we actually see. E.g.: they shall use experience from these projects in this work. The services provided in municipalities are the main means of ensuring the best functioning of families with disabled children in their everyday lives. In municipalities, habilitation takes place in kindergartens, schools, school-time arrangements and in health and social services. I have previously informed Stortinget about important measures in the health and social services of municipalities, both in response to individual questions and in the treatment of St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning. Future care challenges. Through the strengthening of the local economy and the targeted strengthening of care services, the Government has helped all users, regardless of age and diagnosis, to live an active and, not least, worthwhile life. Not least disabled children. In order for municipalities to improve their follow-up to the rehabilitation of children, it is important that they comply with the rehabilitation regulations and establish coordinating units in the municipalities. It is therefore the task of the county councillors to identify whether the municipalities have set up coordinating units and to draw up an overview of these units. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has been tasked with following this work. Case handlers and decision-makers in municipalities must have good competence in families with disabled children. All municipalities are therefore offered to participate in the specific training programme called the TaKT, the organisation of municipal services for disabled children and their families. The TaKT programme will be evaluated during this year. I have also initiated a project earlier this year to test how municipalities and specialist health services can work together on adapted and coordinated services for families with disabled children. To strengthen the habilitation and rehabilitation field, the Government will present a strategy, as announced. This shall also include the habilitation of children. Children and young people are particularly important for the Government. I would particularly like to refer to the waiting time guarantee for children and young people and measures for children of mentally ill and drug addicts that I have recently submitted. Children with disabilities and children with chronic diseases also need special efforts to obtain the help they need. Therefore, in the national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, child rehabilitation will have a special important place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1272	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is reassuring to hear that the Government is working as well with this, especially with these projects mentioned, and that the strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation will take particular account of children. Now, the Council of State did not specifically mention the resource that parents are actually in this context. They contribute significantly to the habilitation of their children. They are the most important resource for their children. They have a lot of knowledge, they have a lot of experience, patience and not least love. Many parents choose methods and arrangements for habilitation as they know it works. Throughout the previous ageing period, there was a broad consensus to respect the choice of methods adopted by parents, but in the budget for both last year and this year, the Labour Party and the other government parties oppose showing respect for parents' choices. So the parents are going to be overexamined. My question is, Why has the Government changed its vision after they came into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1279	I'm not quite sure what the representative here is aiming for, but what I can say clearly is that we have the greatest respect for all the parents who have children with different degrees of disability, who make a great effort every single day for their own children, and in that way also for society. There is a great deal of respect for that, and I, as Minister of Health, also have a great deal of respect for that. We also believe, of course, that parents should be able to participate and decide as far as possible and make their own choices in relation to what they think. They are often experts on their children, whether they are disabled or not, and what is best for the children. So if it's got a sense of the opposite, it's wrong. We are to use the resource that parents are, and we are as far as possible, also for it to be freedom of choice. Then we have to focus on parents letting go, as many people now have to, running around and visiting the service offer seagoing, and feeling that they have to fight the service offer. That's not how we're going to feel. That's why what we're doing now is that the county council has been given the responsibility to ensure that the municipalities actually follow the regulations that apply to child rehabilitation, and that those who are going to make decisions in the municipality, and those who work in the service, get more competence and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1286	It's probably got a sense that you don't want to respect the choices. I would then recommend both the budgetary comments and the budget debate of the previous two years. Right-wing proposals have been put forward by the Storting for a stepping-up plan in the area of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and with earmarked means of strengthening the provision of both municipal and specialist health services. The matter is now under consideration in the Committee. On the right, a proposal for an open consultation with patient organisations and users was made, so the government parties voted down. Therefore, the Right and Opposition Parties organised a separate hearing. The Hearing Officers equally regretted, as did the Right and the other opposition parties, that there was no consultation with the entire Committee. So the government parties didn't want input from the users to a rehabilitating plan. My question is what does the Council of State think of such an attitude, and whether it was wise to reject the access of patient organisations and training institutions to an open consultation in the Storting on such an important matter, which is now in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1293	I do not want to go into the committee's proceedings and the choices made by the committee members. Just as little as I, as a magnificent representative, would have liked it if a government council had meant anything about it, I might also think that the current government representatives would have liked it if I had meant anything about it. But we're very busy listening to those that apply. That's why the government has in connection with the strategy we're now working on, a lot of meetings, a lot of visits and a lot of input from those involved, from children's seas, from their parents, from user organisations, from those who work in the sector, from training institutions – from all of them. I think it's very important, because it's often the case, in this case as in other cases, that knows what this is all about. I can assure the representative, Sjöli, that we will continue to strengthen efforts in the area of rehabilitation in general and child rehabilitation in particular. I'm very open to trying out new things to give them what's going on, a better offer and a more worthwhile life than what I unfortunately see that someone experiences per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1304	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The Governing Board of Health Mid-Norway RHF has decided by a limited majority that the additional allocation of 275 million is to be granted. kr that has now been decided upon additional appropriations for that entity shall not be allocated according to normal criteria internally in the region but have been decided on withholding to cover deficits at the end of the year. This means that a number of savings measures are now being considered by, among others. Health Sunnmare. Examples include the closure of psychiatric services at the Larsnes and Nevro home. Does the Council of State consider this acceptable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1313	A major reason why the Government promoted a proposal for an additional allocation to regional health companies was that Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord RHF reported to me that they would not be able to reach the Stockholm Performance Requirements for 2007 without having unacceptable consequences for the patient offer. As is known for Health Mid-Norway the main reason was the large operating deficit at St. Olav's Hospital. These included: The reason why the Government proposed the additional allocation, which the Storting subsequently decided, also for this region, in order to avoid major cuts in patient provision. It is the regional health undertaking that is responsible for allocating the additional appropriations to health establishments. I trust that the Health Center-Norway RHF management will ensure that the funds are distributed in line with the steering signals given. Health Mid-Norway has indicated that health businesses are considering different measures to keep their budget balance for the current year. It is available after what I am familiar with, no plans to close the offer at the Nevro home. As regards the offer of Larsnes, I point out that the board of Health Sunnmøre HF on 16 May decided that the department of Larsnes should be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1322	The problem is that the economic situation does not change because they and the offers are taken out of a possible savings package. The savings are kept to a minimum, and this health business must actually do so. Health reform and regionalisation are built, inter alia, by: trust within the region also, respect as a region, and that parts of the region are not distributed over others. What we are now experiencing, and as a representative of one of the government parties called the ‘great troupe’, is that this confidence is now becoming fairly thin in other parts of the region. We also know that statistics show that the waiting time in psychiatry is increasing, it doesn't go down. Then is my question to the Council of State: will the Council of State guarantee that there will not be accepted closure or worse offers in psychiatry, drug treatment and rehabilitation in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1331	I just want to refer to my original answer, where I said that I've come to know that the places that the representative here refers to, that is, the Nevro home and Larsnes, are not being closed down. The background for the additional appropriations was known to be completely unacceptable in the patient offer, especially in the North Health and Health Mid-Norway. Then there's no secret that there's been and partly still are major challenges at St. Olav's Hospital. I understand that other parts of the region have their opinions about it. As Minister of Health, I have had to go into it very carefully after I got the responsibility for this, because it has been absolutely essential that there has been control of the economy at St. Olav's Hospital – if not, it would have been even worse with those outside St. Olav's Hospital. For the first time, as far as I know, in many years it is now moving in the right direction. I hope and believe that will also benefit other parts of that region, but I will not, therefore, focus on the internal priorities of each different health region, nor go into every detail, whether I have given any overall guidance signals such as: the areas of psychiatry and intoxication are expected to grow more strongly than those of somatic medicine. That's what I expect to be followed up in the whole of Health Mid-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1338	I notice that the Council of State in its reply says that now it is «in the right direction». If it's the ‘right direction’ that we get a summer-related maternity ward at Volda Hospital, that ever-new savings measures are being promoted, that we see an increase in waiting times associated with psychiatry, I'm a little worried about what it's going in the right direction. I have read very carefully the appropriations proposed by the Council of State for Stortinget, and I have looked it up against the decision made in Health Mid-Norway long before the money was granted in Stortinget, and there is nothing to say that this money should be withheld in order to be seen in conjunction linked up to the end of the year. I have the following questions for the Council of State: Has the Council of State itself or her people contacted the Regional Health Agency's executive in relation to these funds, in order to tell or instruct how this money was to be spent, i.e. linked to St. Olav's Hospital, cf. What the Council of State here says, and thus held back from the rest of the region?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1347	First of all, when I said it was going in a somewhat more correct direction, I mentioned St. Olav's Hospital and the situation that has unfortunately been there for years, and which unfortunately has not been grasped by my predecessors. Fortunately, as far as I know, it is now in a somewhat more correct direction – it is very important. So there's no doubt that we still have challenges. But when the representative, Nesvik, is trying to give the show that everything is going in the wrong direction, it's completely wrong. When, for example: In fact, this government has for the first time provided a separate waiting guarantee for children and young people, so that they do not have to wait as long as some of them do today. I hope that the Stortinget – also the Advance Party – will join in. It's important. In the case of summer-related food departments, it is clear that in parts of the country there are challenges. I've been in politics for 20 years, and I've heard about it for 20 years. I also have a special focus on it, because it's not always that it's the way you should save money. But it's also so that with distances it's relative – I know that too, that comes from a part of the country where it's 16 miles to the nearest hospital – so I don't think that one should paint this picture blacker than what it actually is. There are challenges, also in Health Mid-Norway, but it's not in any way that this image is completely black, rather opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1360	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘More places in the country people are worried about getting the help they need when they're going to be born. At the same time, we see that several maternity wards have to be closed for the summer. It is recommended that maternity wards should have 400-500 births per day. years to ensure competence and training. The Council of State will prevent the closure of maternity wards with fewer than the recommended number of births, pending the announced review of maternity care, in order to assess, inter alia, the competence and continued existence of these maternity wards. from the real number of births?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1369	As the representative Hareide refers to, there have been concerns and concerns about food supply in several places in the country. I'm serious about that. Although the State Health Inspectorate in its nationwide surveillance in 2004 stated that Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to give birth, there is no doubt that there are potential for improvement, and I would say throughout the chain. I meet women who have not received good enough follow-up from their permanent staff, we know that not all municipalities have midwife service, which they should have, in my opinion, so that the choice becomes real for women, whether they want to go to midwife or permanent. So we know that people don't get good enough follow-up in that phase, and we also know that unfortunately, not often, but from time to time, unwanted events occur during births at our hospitals that can cause dramatic consequences to those involved, in different ways. There's a lot of reason to take it seriously. I also see that the interaction between those responsible for the different parties does not always work satisfactorily, and that leads, of course, to an insecurity for women and for their families that one has to take seriously. I believe it is a matter of course that it should be good and safe food for everyone throughout our country. That is why I have started a work to get a more comprehensive maternity, maternity and maternity care in place. The work is anchored in the overall framework conditions for the proximity to food supply and a differentiated offer. It is also in line with the treatment of Stortingen, as the representative Hareide knows. The provision of food is also mentioned in the national health plan, where the government points out that food supply for low-risk births should be available in most local hospitals and as part of the local hospital function of the major hospitals. Where the distances are large, there should also be feeding rooms outside the hospitals. The national health plan emphasises that the continuity and safety of women should be characterised by good quality maternity and maternity care. You're not going to relate to a lot of people in that period. Attention shall be paid to the need to provide a coherent maternity, maternity and maternity services and to develop them in close cooperation with the community health service. I also believe that when we are making a new plan for this, it must be put in line with modern research and professional development, given that times are changing all the time. For this reason, I have set up a broad process, a broad dialogue and cooperation with relevant actors such as the Local Authorities' Central Associations, regional health companies, users' seas – many active women in this area, including some men – professional organisations, our professional advisers in the Social and Health Directorates and the National Council for Paternity Care, and not least with local communities and politicians in the local communities where there may be some changes, without me having to shoot it here and now. I think it's important that there's a very broad process around this. I will present the work on the plan, how far we have come, in connection with the state budget for the autumn, and I have the ambition to finish that whole plan during this year. I also notice that there has been a lot of resistance to and attention around the summer closure of food establishments, not least in Health Nord. I have underlined that it is the regional health companies that are responsible for the provision of services to their citizens, and it is clear that if they go to the step of shutting down maternity wards, they have a responsibility to ensure that the women concerned have a different, professionally good enough offer in the period during which the departments will be closed. I am also very concerned that when that happens, the pregnant women and their families must be given good information in good time about what opportunities they have. I have assured myself that it will be taken care of in the health of the North in the case of food supplies this summer. When it comes to the question of a lower limit on the number of births, I am very aware of what the Storting has decided. I'm following this development carefully, because in parts of the country it's now such that the number of births has fallen so dramatically that one approaches the limit of whether one can say that a thing is maintaining quality. Let me just give an example of this: in Norway, we have a much higher proportion of tears on women during birth, which can cause lasting problems for many women. This figure is much higher than in Finland and Sweden, for example, with which it is natural to compare. Some of the reasons for this might be that there's too little training between doctors and midwives, that there's a lot of people who are hired from elsewhere, who are here for a few weeks, go back, and then others come back. It's not acceptable. We have to do something about this, because there is no reason for women in Norway to have a higher share of tears than elsewhere. That's why there's something we have to go through. But once again, we're going to have a whole process ahead of this plan. Everyone who has an interest in this should be most involved, and I look forward to discussing this because I believe it is important. I believe that it has not always been sufficiently focused on it, either in the public debate. I look forward to recording and wide-ranging debate, also from the representative Hareide and other representatives here in the house, on this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1388	I thank the Council of State for the in-depth and good answer, and I am happy for the commitment that the Council of State has. This is a theme that creates a lot of commitment across the country and also helps create insecurity. That's why I'm glad it's going to be a review. I hope that the Council of State there sees it necessary to intervene, so that we also get an offer until this review is ready. Now, in its in-depth response, the Council of State was involved in the provision of services in the municipalities. It is clear that when it gets further to go to hospital, it is important to get a good follow-up service in place. Now the last numbers are coming, which showed that 87 pst. by municipalities, midwives only have a part-time job. It is clear that then it is not easy to have a good follow-up service, which becomes all the more important with summer connections. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: What exactly will the Council of State do to ensure that we get an even better follow-up service for those who are born, with the summer connections that we now seem to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1397	What Hareide here is dealing with is a very important question. It is clear that this is important for women during pregnancy, sail if of course also the birth must go well for all this to go well. Just that with midwives is an important theme. I think all the municipalities should have a midwife. I also believe that many of the municipalities that have them in too small job vacancies, in order to use that expression, should raise their job vacancies. When the local economy has now become so much strengthened in a short time, I have faith that it will have to pay off in relation to the midwife service. I fully agree with the representative Hareide that when maternity wards are closed for the summer, as has been done for many years – and you can think about it, and I think we should also focus on that – it is important, as the representative says, that when a staff member does, it must be a good follow-up service, which follows if you have to run an ambulance for longer than anyone else would have done. I'm going to follow up on this to regional health companies, and it's going to be a very important thing in the work on this plan as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1404	I'm glad the Council of State will grasp this. It is a challenge, and it would be demanding to improve without a stronger tool than a better local economy, because I believe that some guidelines for this are important. We have a national perspective that we in this room are set to rule. It's not always as easy in a community treatment to have the same perspective. So I also want to say that there are a lot of municipalities that have to change their offer on the basis of what's happening in the regions. I think it is important that the signal is very clear from a central point of view. I would say that perhaps an even stronger tool than saying that it is up to the municipalities themselves, is that we come with leaders who agree to impose it on the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1409	I take with me absolutely what the representative Hareide here says. It is clear that we are now continuously considering what we need to do to ensure and safeguard that security throughout the country, because many live far away from hospitals, many miles away. There's no doubt about it. What will be the concrete outcome of that, I do not dare to fire today. But the representative must be absolutely sure that I take this very seriously. I'm taking with me the input that the representative here has come with, and I'm thinking that we need to do more action to make sure this is done at all stages.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-23.ana.ud9e1414	Thus, today's map has been processed.
