ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e45	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e54	I want to congratulate the Prime Minister – congratulate him for now leading a clearly working party-dominated government. He has managed to achieve that over a year and a half, along with two parties that are no longer visible in relation to the political decisions taken in the Government. In fact, this Labour Party-dominated government has been able to take advantage of more labour party policy than the Labour Party has ever been able to when they were in a minority government and had to negotiate for solutions here in the Storting, alternately with the Right Party and the Advance Party. There is reason to congratulate the Prime Minister, for it was his great project before the elections that he was going into a majority government. He's done it, and on top of it all, he's getting an impact on more labour party politics than ever. The losses for the other government parties are visible and many. This is particularly evident in foreign policy. But it helps create uncertainty. Yesterday it became clear that Norway will send special soldiers to Afghanistan. Throughout yesterday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs could be seen trying to double-communise — whether these forces should only be stationed in Kabul, or whether, in fact, they could, given a situation, be relocated to other areas of Afghanistan. I think the Prime Minister must make that clear to Stortinget, because the Minister of Defence was quite clear that that possibility exists. Today we can see on the first side of the Class Battle that Colonel Terje Torsteinson asserts that the Norwegian soldiers can be sent to war in the south. I would like that clarification to be given by the Prime Minister. It is important that it is clear what is Norway’s position regarding these new special forces of Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e63	Firstly, I would like to stress that the Government is ruling on a very good political basis that reflects the policy of the three government parties, which is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration. For example, the Soria Moria Declaration states: that we should step up Norwegian military assistance to ISAF, i.e. NATO operations in Afghanistan. There has been a broad consensus on that in Stortinget for a long time. Before the elections last year, for example, there was support. from SV to Norway to support NATO operations in Afghanistan. So that's nothing new. As regards environmental policy and other areas, this government reflects the policy of the three parties. It is a broad and good political programme in the Soria Moria declaration that is now being followed up. The Central Party and SV of course put their mark on the policy, because they put their mark on the Soria Moria declaration and its implementation. On the specific issue of Afghanistan, the situation is exactly as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the foreign policy presentation. Norway has received an enquiry from NATO to stop with F-16 planes, to stop with other types of soldiers, among other things. in the south, to hold transport aircraft and also to hold special forces to the Kabul area. We chose to answer no to the other enquiries, but responded yes to the enquiry about special forces to the Kabul area. The Government’s decision, as set out in the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement, states that these are the forces to be used in the Kabul area and are not to be used elsewhere. We have also made it clear in the instructions that go to NATO today, that they are to be used in Kabul, nowhere else, and if NATO wishes to use them elsewhere, it is to be mentioned with the Norwegian authorities first. So it's a very clear and clear decision that means I can assure you that these forces are going to be used in Kabul and are not being moved and stationed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e72	I understand that the Prime Minister believes that he governs on a very good basis, and that is because in the situations where the government's policy is not clarified in detail in the Soria Moria Declaration, it is clarified through negotiations between the three government parties. We look into the matter in substance, especially in matters of major importance, that the Workers' Party is getting full impact. We have seen this on Kårstø, and we have seen it in a number of other climate and environmental issues – SV suffers from defeat, the Workers' Party is getting through. We see the same thing in foreign policy, and hopefully we will also see it in the Foreign Affairs Act that the Government will come with in a moment. We hope it is the reasonable forces in the Workers' Party that will also be effective in this matter. In another area too, the Foreign Minister created uncertainty yesterday. The four parliamentary leaders of the opposition have sent an address to the Government and asked for a statement on the Services Directive. That could not be confirmed by the Foreign Minister. Now I ask the Prime Minister, will such a statement be given to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e79	The Government has sent the Services Directive to be consulted, and when the consultation period is over, the Government will deal with the matter and then return to the Stortinget with it in an appropriate form. After all, there is no point in making a statement until the Government has dealt with the matter and taken a decision on it. We are going to deal with the Services Directive in the Government and then of course involve and present the matter to the Storting in an appropriate form, but I think it is a good idea that we will come back to when and in what form when the Government has completed the treatment and decided on how to deal with the matter in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e84	There will be follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e87	I agree that it was an important decision the government yesterday briefed the Storting that they had taken. We've given our assent to it. However, it is necessary to clarify the opinion of the Minister of Defence, who went on the news channel yesterday and who was not cut. There were two sentences such as: was said there: we have no formal restrictions on our forces in Afghanistan. Others put different limits on their forces, we have put no restrictions on them. Was that what the Secretary of Defense informed the Norwegian people yesterday from the Vandrehallen out here, wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e96	What is government policy is what was clearly conveyed in the presentation to the Stortinget, which I have repeated here in the Chamber. It's that we're equivalent to sending 150 soldiers to Kabul for example. to secure the capital, in order to ensure civil action in Kabul, and these soldiers shall be used in the Kabul area, no other place. This is the first part of what was announced to the Stortinget, and second, it is also mentioned in the instructions that now go to our NATO delegation, where it is also made clear that these forces are to be used in the Kabul area. If they come from NATO's commander-in-command to use them elsewhere, it's totally inappropriate to move these forces somewhere else without the Norwegian government being taken up. This has been made clear by the Secretary-General of NATO, and it is clear from the instructions we are now sending to NATO. So these forces are going to be used in the Kabul area. It is a political limitation we have put on the forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e102	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e105	I want to go back to the starting point for the main question. The election is between SV and chaos, said Kristin Halvorsen at the NRK People's Meeting on 16 August 2005. Now we can soon conclude that we have got both bag and bag! According to the current Prime Minister in the same debate meeting, a majority government was supposed to bring an end to ‘games, spectacles, rematches and all that hesitated there!’ I expect Jens Stoltenberg to formulate a little different today. It's a fact that SV might be the party that has gone on the most painful losses in the government project. They were supposed to be guarantors of environmental policy, but were not allowed to issue guarantees. They were supposed to be the Peace Party, but were held responsible for sending new soldiers out of the country. They adopted a new and better bioethics law in the last period, but now become co-responsible for opening up the sorting society. The last is today's look-up in the Evening Post, where it looks like the Government's promises in kindergarten policy will not be fulfilled, no matter how you count. While people are looking for kindergarten, Stoltenberg may have to look for a new finance minister, because we remember what Kristin Halvorsen said about it in the election campaign. Or is it that at this point the Prime Minister can give Halvorsen, Djupedal and SV a rest and assure toddlers that the promises are being fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e114	There were a lot of questions here in one question. First about ISAF. What I want to remember is that NATO's operations in Afghanistan have had broad support in the Grand Duchy, including before the elections. SV supported Norway's contribution to ISAF with military forces. The current opposition politician Kristin Halvorsen visited the ISAF forces in the winter of 2005, it was, and commended their efforts. So the fact that SV is for ISAF is nothing new. The Soria Moria Declaration states that we should step up the Norwegian military efforts in NATO operations in Afghanistan. What we also say in the Soria Moria Declaration is that we are going out of Iraq. We pulled the Norwegian forces out of Iraq. We're not going to participate in what's called Operation Enduring Freedom, which is not a NATO operation in Afghanistan. In the case of kindergartens, this government has set a new record in kindergarten development. We're doing everything we can now, and we're getting closer to the goal of full child care coverage than ever before. We are mobilising to a large national effort to achieve the goal of full child-care coverage during 2007. We are well located in most municipalities. We work hard, for example. in Oslo and Bergen. We've got it in Trondheim. Now we have to bet on getting it into the remaining cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e125	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e128	The main question had a general entrance to the picture that is now drawn by the sitting government. Then I pulled up a small note with some quotes from among others. opposition leader Stoltenberg. When I hear the answers, the following quote is what I want to meet him with. On 19 May 2004, the newspaper said under the heading «Skjeller ut Bondevik»: «Bondevik lacks power and control he creates root and unpredictability and wings and shows cowardice.» [[...]] This is what Stoltenberg said about the sitting prime minister. I'm not going to take a proud mountain by changing its name. What I still want, in the light of the questions and the answers the Prime Minister now gives, is to ask if he understands that many people are pulling on the smile belt when they read these quotes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e140	I believe the main goal of whether or not a government succeeds is what political results it achieves, what it actually does, whether or not it changes everyday life to people the most. This is done by this government – a new record in kindergarten development, billions of elderly people and schools in municipalities, upgrading schools, thousands of new year-olds in the care of the elderly, a stop in the privatisation of school, bet in the public general school, a new record in the number of people at work, a reduction in unemployment, improvement in the conditions for, among others. unemployed people and the unemployed, massive efforts on public transport, on the road and on environmental measures. It is the political results that a government actually achieves, which is the crucial goal of its success. This government is very successful, because we have three parties in the government that have created a good joint programme, which we implement day by day. In the long run, I'm sure the voters are most concerned with the political results. Then this government is measured very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e145	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e148	Since 11 September 2001, in the debates we had here on Afghanistan – and many of them have been in this room – there was a great deal of disagreement between the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party on how to deal with the situation, how Norway should behave, how NATO should act. Then it's not unnatural that the disagreement is also reflected in the sitting government, with SV's basic resistance to NATO. Does the Prime Minister agree that the fundamental distance we historically have between the Workers' Party and the SV, and as we still see in the sitting red-green government, creates uncertainty about Norwegian foreign and security policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e153	The answer to that question is no. There is no uncertainty about Norwegian foreign and security policy. We are pursuing an active, clear foreign and security policy, which respects the long traditions of NATO as a member of Norwegian foreign and security policy, as well as the traditions of Norway, such as the peace nation, the environment nation, and those that contribute to the fight against poverty. I mean, then, a clearer, more active foreign policy than that of the previous government. Of course, it is quite right that the SV and the Workers' Party initially have different views on some foreign policy issues. SV has e.g. in their programme that they are against NATO. But one of the beautiful things about the Soria Moria statement is that two parties that have historically disagreed have come up with good, common political solutions that we stand together for. This includes, inter alia: that we are based on NATO membership, but that we say no to Norway having soldiers in Iraq. Then we say yes to something SV and the Workers' Party has been for the whole time, namely, increasing Norwegian military contributions to Afghanistan. It is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, and SV was for NATO operations in Afghanistan even before the Soria Moria Declaration. So it's a great foreign policy this government is running. It's offensive, clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e160	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e163	It is good the Prime Minister is satisfied with himself and his own government. The question I have intended to ask is whether he has fully considered the consequences of some of the decisions taken by the Government, linked to, among other things. the theme on which we were in place, Afghanistan. Let me first say that I think it is important that we have a two-track job in Afghanistan, both the humanitarian side and the military side. I think it is important to ensure that Afghanistan is an example of how we can contribute to reconstruction and a stable governance, but it is a formidable task. It is a task that also requires good framework conditions for the safety work being carried out. Then it is important to me that NATO's operations are made as flexible as possible in order to provide the best possible result for the Afghan people. These include: one of the issues raised by the Secretary-General of NATO at a meeting where the Prime Minister was also present, that there are too many restrictions from the various countries related to the NATO forces being made available. That's exactly what the government has just done. They're sending soldiers, but they're sending them with restrictions. NATO leaders, all Heads of State, said on 9 February that it is necessary to remove restrictions on existing forces. That was also said by the Secretary-General, and it also received the agreement from Jens Stoltenberg in the meeting that was before Christmas. So you've done the opposite now. Then my question is: if it blows up in the north, who is going to help Norwegian soldiers who are in the north, if all the governments of other countries have placed restrictions on those who are going to help?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e173	First, I would like to express my strong agreement with the representative of Solberg that it is important to stick to what is the main issue: how can we contribute to a democratic, good development in Afghanistan, to combat poverty, to combat violence and terrorism? It is quite clear that we are not achieving a good development in Afghanistan by military means alone. We need a significantly stronger commitment in the civil field, in aid, in the fight against drug production and trafficking. Therefore, Norway has stepped up civil assistance, and I am pleased that we have broad support for this idea here in Stortinget. So it is at the same time that in order to be able to escalate civil assistance and to build democracy and, among other things, to build democracy. ensuring women's rights in a country like Afghanistan, we must have military security. For this reason, Norway and a broad majority of the Stortinget have always been members of Norwegian military contributions. Norway contributes significantly. We are among the top countries in terms of military contributions in relation to the population, and we are now increasing the Norwegian military contributions with soldiers who are particularly well trained and especially fit for that kind of mission. So it's true that we have a political constraint, because we say these forces are going to be used in Kabul, not elsewhere. It is also true that NATO naturally wants as few restrictions as possible, but even though NATO has expressed this, and that at the Riga Summit there was a declaration in which all countries supported such a wish, it has not prevented many NATO countries from applying different types of restrictions. Therefore, Norway is not alone in having either political or formal restrictions. We believe it is right of us to escalate the military efforts in Afghanistan, but at the same time it is right of us to make it clear that when they ask for soldiers to Kabul, we send soldiers to Kabul, and that's where they're going to operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e182	I find that the Prime Minister did not really answer the question I asked. I have great sympathy for what the Minister of Defence said yesterday, which the Prime Minister has now corrected, because the answer given earlier means only one thing that the Minister of Defence said yesterday does not have the support of the Prime Minister of the country. But my question is, when all countries place restrictions on their soldiers to given tasks and other things, how do we get flexibility enough to help when it burns somewhere? We've experienced it. The Prime Minister has experienced how important it is to get quick help. In Maymaneh last year, Norwegian soldiers had to get help. But if all countries have set limits, where and how quickly can you send in new forces? That is the important political issue. Then I have to say that I do not think it is a good answer from the Norwegian Government to hide behind that all the other countries are doing something that is not good. Instead, you should do what was right: make sure that there was freedom of action to help where the crisis is, when the crisis arises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e189	First of all, we have a force of effort, as it is called, in the north, which is precisely to be used as a relief if problems arise, either for Norwegian forces elsewhere in the area or for the forces of other countries. Today, Norway has strengths that can be deployed in different places. We've had that for a long time, and for those forces, there's no change in guidelines. So as far as the special forces are concerned, we've been asked to bring forces to the capital area, to the Kabul area. We've answered yes to that. It is a division of labour – there are other forces elsewhere in the country. I know that NATO is pleased, it is very grateful that Norway is now increasing its military contribution. Then we have made it clear, as a clear political restriction – and we stress it – that these forces are to be used in the Kabul area and not in the South. We've also made it clear to NATO's Secretary-General, and he fully agrees that if NATO wishes to place these elsewhere, it will be dealt with with by the Norwegian Government first. No mention is made of the fact that the Norwegian power can be used anywhere other than in the Kabul area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e196	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e199	So the Prime Minister has corrected the Minister of Defence. But it is not just the Minister of Defense who has expressed himself that way. At the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting on 26 January, the Foreign Minister said that we have no formal restrictions, and that we want to adapt our presence to be as useful as possible. He went on to say that we must continue to be militarily prepared to deal with the rebels, wherever they are. This can be seen in one of two ways — either that it is entirely curative to get a yes from the Norwegian Government if NATO asks to move the forces, or that the Foreign Minister has to eat what he said to NATO's foreign ministers. I want to know which of the two versions is right. If it were the last one, what does Norway think the Foreign Minister cannot deliver what he promised them less than three weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e206	Now I mean the representative Petersen is trying to construct a problem that is actually not present. The starting point here is that NATO has asked for strengths to Kabul. They greatly appreciate Norway sending its best and best trained soldiers to Kabul. There will be a valuable contribution to security in Kabul, to secure the political institutions, to secure civil efforts in Kabul. The Minister of Defence has made it clear, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has made it clear, it is said in the statement here in Stortinget that these forces will be used in the Kabul area and that they will not operate outside this region. In addition, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke with NATO's Secretary-General yesterday and informed about this. The Secretary-General expressed his agreement with the political constraints expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is also stated in the written instructions received today by NATO. So when you try to create ambiguity or disagreement internally in the government between the different state councils, what they think about this, it's a constructed disagreement. We are fully in agreement and clear on what are the Norwegian contributions, and what policy and regulations apply to those contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e215	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e218	I do not understand that the Prime Minister necessarily answers the question of whether such political constraints make NATO less effective than what is optimal. The second question is what if a crisis occurs? Unfortunately, in Afghanistan, we have experienced that this has happened. Has the government thought through what to answer if you get such an enquiry? You should have done that naturally. There is an answer that is interesting, not least for this hall, but also for the forces that are going to go down: What will Norway provide for signals and responses to NATO? Is it established, or is it the opening that has also emerged from both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, that in a crisis situation, we are willing to look beyond the limits that have now been imposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e227	Firstly, I would just like to stress once again that what is involved is what is expressed in the Foreign Minister's statement, as the Minister for Defence has pointed out, and which is now also communicated to NATO. What we are communicating in the instructions to NATO is that Norway has agreed to send forces to Kabul, but if the ISAF leadership wishes to deploy the force elsewhere, this must be submitted to the Norwegian Government for approval. That is what our message to NATO is, and that is why I can also make sure that there is no doubt that NATO has perceived the political leadership and limitations of Norwegian contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e232	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e235	What we can see today is that what the Minister of Defence said in this House yesterday, and what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said in NATO's Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting on 26 January, does not apply. What is relevant is that if a situation arises where these forces are needed elsewhere than in the Kabul region, it should be addressed by the Government. But then I'd like to ask: is what Kristin Halvorsen said yesterday, that the answer is automatically no?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e241	What's going on is what we've been telling you all along. So now it's like trying to create uncertainty about what's passed on to NATO. It's very clear what's conveyed to NATO, and NATO appreciates the message they've received. They have access to increased strengths, and they are aware that Norway has put restrictions on them. I'm not here to speculate in all sorts of thoughtful and unimaginable hypothetical situations. If, for example: problems arise with Norwegian forces in Meymaneh, it is clear that problems occur differently from those in the south. We'll get back to that if there's such an enquiry. It is essential that no one can send Norwegian forces anywhere other than where the Norwegian Government agrees to send them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e248	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e251	I do not feel that anyone wants to create uncertainty or doubts as to what the Government has now decided, and what the Storting has unanimously stood behind. We support a special force for Kabul, including: because it was clearly announced in the bodies of the Storing yesterday that it is in Kabul that the main military challenges may be expected in the future, and that a possible spring offensive may be targeting Kabul. So there's no doubt about it. There is also no doubt that there are no formal barriers, but there are political and practical obstacles to making the necessary movements. But what can happen – and unfortunately it is not so unlikely – is that this spring offensive is not going to go along with what you might think today, which is the background to the Norwegian decision to take the special forces to Kabul. It could be a dramatic deterioration. The fire could be a disaster fire somewhere else in Afghanistan, and NATO is crying out for help from its members. Then it's at the root of my support for Kabul, with limitations, that we stand up within NATO in such a disaster situation. Does the Prime Minister agree that we have our obligations in NATO in this way, whether it is in Afghanistan or elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e262	It is essential that we have sent a force to Kabul all the time. There, NATO has asked us to send forces. In addition, we have forces elsewhere in the country: we protect the airport in Kabul, and we have forces in the north. As far as the forces we are sending to Kabul are concerned, we have told them to operate in the Kabul region, not elsewhere. In addition, we have said – we have both informed NATO in writing and orally and the Secretary-General of NATO – that if NATO's management wants to use the forces elsewhere, it must be addressed with the Norwegian government first. It is not a matter of sending these forces anywhere else unless the Norwegian Government gives approval to anything else. It's the Norwegian government that decides, and it's NATO understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e269	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e272	I'll give the Prime Minister the opportunity to change the theme, and I'll start with a quote: «Christianity has marked two millennia, it has created our continent, it has shaped our culture. To forget that Christianity is our basis of value and our most central culture-owner, it would be trendy. It would be gross history falsification.’ The words are not mine, they are Jens Bjørneboes. This stone teacher learned that knowledge of Christianity is the key to insight. He said, "If you take the Bible history from a man, you take half his childhood from him." He thus saw the same thing as the elementary school curriculum today points out, namely that Christianity is a deep stream in our history that still characterizes thoughtsets, norms, language and art, and binds us together through weeks and celebrations. There is reason to recall the important role of Christian thought in our cultural heritage. It is not about Christianity having a monopoly on good and building values. But, as Børneboe pointed out, Christian tradition has played a central role through Norwegian history, and there is a line from the Christian view of man through the reflection of the time of information on the natural right to the development of political rights. Recently, proposals have been launched to eliminate the reference to our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage in the value base of the school. There are many who are concerned about this, and don't understand why we have to sort of face up to new cultural and religious elements in our society. Well, respect doesn't have to mean you're wiping out your own identity. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party believes that Norwegian school should have a clear anchor in Christian and humanistic values. Can the Prime Minister clarify whether he shares this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e296	We now have two important processes, two important debates, which are closely linked. One is the discussion of how to organise the Norwegian Church in the future and how the relationship between the Norwegian Church and the Norwegian State should be in the future. Many in various parties, including in the Christian People's Party, have spoken of a somewhat more freer position for the Norwegian Church in relation to the state, and a majority in the Gjøns Committee has recommended a freer position for the Norwegian Church and a reorganization of the way we organize the Norwegian Church today. It is also linked to the discussion of different constitutional paragraphs, such as: that the Evangelical Lutheran faith remains the faith of the Norwegian State. Several, including the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, have proposed an amendment. That is the one debate. It is to some extent linked to the second debate, namely the discussion of what types of purpose paragraphs we are going to have in the Norwegian school. A sample has been reduced. I would not like to conclude by just how we are going to formulate a future purpose paragraph, either with regard to the provisions of the Basic Law, where the majority of the Gjøns Committee has proposed a different type of value paragraph for the Norwegian State, or with regard to the school. When we ask skilled, insightful people to consider it, I think it is right that they make that assessment and come up with their proposals, and then the Government will present its possible amendments to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e303	I'm familiar with the processes the Prime Minister is now briefing on. But my question was whether the prime minister of the country has an opinion on the issue of our national Christian and humanist cultural heritage should be included in the school's value base – and to the extent also in the Constitution, but it was not my main theme. The question is, we know that the vast majority of Norwegian people even before the children start in kindergarten and at school, choose a Christian assignment for their children. Is it not natural, then, that Christian and humanistic values are defined in the values of school and kindergarten? Doesn't the Prime Minister have any opinion on that? Is that not an important part of what we, as a nation, stand for in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e308	I have a position on that, but part of that attitude is that I believe that when we have asked insightful, wise people to manage two important processes that are at least somewhat related – the purpose paragraph, if you can use that word, for the Norwegian state, the Constitution § 2, which thus says that the Norwegian state religion remains the Evangelical Lutheran faith, and the various purpose paragraphs we have, among other things. in school – it is right to carry out thorough processes. It's about the proposal of the Committee of the Regions, where a majority, including people associated with the Christian People's Party, proposes to change the Constitutional Paragraph, and at the same time we've asked others to consider how we're going to design a purpose paragraph for the school. I believe it is quite important that I, as Prime Minister, do not conclude the two processes until we have done things in the right order: completed the sample work, consulted them, received all the proposals and had a treatment. Then comes the Government's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e313	There will be follow-up questions – Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e316	Here, too, there's a certain level of tension between the government parties. After all, the Socialist Left Party has the Minister of Knowledge, and one of his first games was that he should make things more difficult with, or virtually prohibit, prayer in Norwegian schools. SV has almost gone to war, to use a term a little in time, against Christian values in Norwegian school, despite nearly 85 pst. of the population of Norway is a member of the Church of State, and even more are defined as Christians. We may be in the process of getting into a situation where one is going to modernise at least 1,000 years of Christian tradition in Norway. In meeting with foreign cultures, security of their identity and cultural heritage is very important. Does the Prime Minister agree that the school plays an important role in providing our children with security and security in relation to Christianity as a religion and cultural heritage and as a basis for our ethics for centuries? Will the Prime Minister ensure better control of SV's principle process of dechristianization in relation to the Church of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e324	I believe that the school plays a very important role in conveying values, and I believe that the Christian cultural heritage is a very important part of the value base we have here in our country. At the same time, I believe it is right for several governments to contribute to us now having a discussion about how we organize the Church of State, the relationship between the Church of Norway and the State. I noticed that many have proposed a change, others are against that kind of change. But I think it is right that we listen and go through the various proposals thoroughly. At the same time, we have now invited a process on how to formulate the purpose paragraph also for the Norwegian school. Just because I have a lot of respect for those processes, I don't want to conclude now about how those processes are going to end. I notice that many who have strong Christian values have been adherents, for example. by softening Section 2 of the Constitution. They have stated that it is fully possible to believe in the Christian basic values and nevertheless feel that it is right to adjust, change, some of the purpose paragraphs we have in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e329	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e332	I find that the Prime Minister refuses to signal his personal attitude to such an important question. It is also obvious from today's debate that there are major internal negotiations on very many issues in the Government. The multicultural element of Norwegian society is increasing, and an assessment of the school’s purpose paragraph has been started. The selection operates now and airs some suggestions. I believe that there is quite a majority in the Norwegian people to maintain the Christian view of life as a basis both for school and for Norwegian society. It's a question of finding the right balance, as opposed to some things. In this regard, it might be interesting to ask the Prime Minister if he can assure the Storting that it is not in this case SV will get the full and complete breakthrough, for everyone knows that it is SV who wants to go the longest in resolving the Christian purpose paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e339	I agree, and I think I also answered the previous question, that Christian values, the Christian cultural heritage, have been important to Norway, are important to Norway. I have also noticed that many of those who propose to change today's purpose paragraph have recommended another purpose paragraph in which one reflects the Christian cultural heritage, recognising its importance to the Norwegian values and the Norwegian value basis – that it should be reflected in the new purpose paragraph for the school. It's exactly the same as when many in the Right go in to change the purpose paragraph, if you can use that term, for the Norwegian state, i.e. the Constitution § 2, where it says that the state's religion is the evangelical Lutheran faith. I'm not accusing the Right People of not believing in Christian values even if they go in to remove that purpose paragraph of the Constitution. So I think it is important that these kinds of debates are conducted in a good and tidy way, that you do not create unnecessarily, what to say, suspect that you have other motives. Therefore, I believe that we should have a thoroughness in the treatment of both the Gender Committee's attitude and the attitude of the sample looking at the purpose paragraph in primary school, and then we get back to the conclusion. It's precisely because I want to be neat, that I'm not concluding now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e344	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e347	It may almost seem that the Prime Minister has sent out the Christian destiny paragraph to the ears, and that so far he is completely neutral in this matter. But when Kinderhagelova was treated in 2005, there was a group committee, with the exception of SV, which was some about passing on the Christian destiny paragraph, and in the committee setting also the majority said that it is important that kindergarten children learn why we celebrate Christmas and Easter, and that they thus gain knowledge of important values and traditions. There's a lot of people out there who want this online. Therefore, I should have wished that the Prime Minister could have confirmed that the Labour Party has not changed its position from what they stood for when Kinderhagelova was treated in 2005. I should have wished that the Prime Minister, as the country's top leader, could confirm in a much clearer way that he was the guarantor of schooling and kindergarten still have a clear anchor in our Christian basis of values.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e352	Firstly, I would like to stress once again that both the previous government, in which the Christian People's Party was involved, and the current government have invited processes around important paragraphs of purpose in the Norwegian community, such as: The one we have in the Constitution, and now also an invitation to discuss how we formulate around the purpose paragraph in school, is the processes we have to respect. That's one, and that's why we haven't concluded yet. It's the only neat approach. The second is that I feel confident that whatever the conclusions of those processes become, the Christian cultural heritage, the values it conveys, and the history it conveys, will continue to be reflected in various ways. I have noticed that many in the Christian People's Party also go in to change, what to say, the most important point of purpose of society, namely the Constitution § 2, and soften it, but I do not suspect people in the Christian People's Party not to be concerned with the Christian cultural heritage even if they go in to weaken, to use that expression, the purpose paragraph that is in the Constitution today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e357	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e360	Few may well disagree with the fact that Norwegian society is characterized by Christian and humanistic traditions and values. On that very basis, the Left would like to extend an open hand to both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's party in terms of an important clarification to be made by the Labour Party in relation to church-state relations. We are faced with a clarification as to whether we should have a church that can be perceived by many as the religion of the state, or a church to be met with respect as a religious community. A church like a religious community is a place of life. It is the place and the religious community that can meet homosexuals in a proper way, as the Norwegian Church has done, painfully and demandingly, it is the church that understands that women belong in of course – even if it took 30 years, you can do it. So my question to the Prime Minister is about the Prime Minister, and like the head of the Workers' Party, is willing to take the open hand, trying to draw the distinction between the Church as the State religion service and the free religion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e365	I believe that one of the most important debates, processes, this big business is just the discussion about how we organize our church government in the future. There has been a proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – there are various proposals there. The majority suggest a clear decoration, but not full equality between the Norwegian Church and other religious communities. When the majority do that, it's because they see that a Norway where we have more religions, and where we have more diversity, maybe should organize their church government in a different way. The government will deal with these proposals and other proposals in a very thorough manner, and then we will return to the Stortinget. We look forward to a close dialogue, close contact, with the Storting about this, because this is an area where we are dependent on broad national settlements, and because it is important in itself that we have national settlements on these kinds of issues, and partly because it is about the Constitution, and then we need a 2/3 majority in the Storing if we are to have a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e372	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e376	In the questionnaire two weeks ago, we had a strange situation. The Prime Minister had sent e.g. its Minister for the Environment and its Minister for Finance, and we experienced a Minister for the Protection of the Environment, who was shrunk and humiliated by his own colleague of state and party leader in a situation where the Minister for the Environment, on behalf of his government — all ministers speaking on behalf of his government — had expressed and given guarantees in a newspaper about the climate goals Norway should have. We met at the Questionnaire with the information that the Prime Minister himself had said that this was private Council of State exercise of the same Council of State, and she did not have the government's coverage. It was a little cozy performance, and it was sad for both the Minister for the Environment and for environmental protection. But what surprises me is that the Prime Minister, like an experienced politician and leader, put a government council, an environmental protection minister, in such a situation, because the Prime Minister himself expressed views that were close up – at least so close that a driven politician and leader could build a safe bridge – among others. in opinions in a chronicle the same week that it is natural for Norway to assume at least the same level of commitments for the global environment as the EU. We know that the guarantee given by the Minister for the Environment was about such a guarantee equivalent to the one given by the EU. Why did the Prime Minister not make this easier for his Minister for the Protection of the Environment? That's question 1. So to question 2 in this round, because I'm still upset by claims that minority representatives bullyed in the main hall, when one did what is the parliamentary and democratic duty of a minority, namely to control a majority, to ask sharp questions to a majority, when the government and the majority clearly send unclear signals about what they think. We all saw in good time how a representative of the Government, the Minister of Finance, in this Chamber called poacher Børge Brende and, in part, Gunnar Kvassheim, I understand, for bullies. Will the Prime Minister support such an opinion on the exercise of perfectly obvious parliamentary duties in controlling a majority government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e385	I am very pleased that the representative Sponheim is addressing one of the most important challenges of our time, namely the climate problems. Let me then explain a few important issues. One is that Norway has a clear national numerical commitment, and it is enshrined in the only international climate agreement we have in the world, namely the Kyoto agreement. There we say that in the period 2008-2012, that is to say until 2013, our emissions should not exceed the level in 1990, that is to say plus 1 pst. over 50 million tonnes. That's our numerical goal. The most important thing we do now is to do everything we can to achieve that goal. Both the previous government and the current government have said that it is the main task no. 1st@item: inlistbox We're going to work on that until 2013. There I would say that what we have so far are projections from both the previous and the current government that show that without action emissions in Norway will increase by about 20 million tonnes more than the 50 million – from 50 million tonnes to 70 million tonnes. Then we have to drop 20 million tons. As stated by both the previous government and the current government, the 20 million tonnes reduction will be achieved by implementing measures in Norway – it is CO2 tax, it is quota system, it is waste treatment measures, it is bioenergy and many such measures – and on the one hand it will be by financing emission reductions in other countries. We're doing that, and it's important. I can say one thing very clearly: we are going to achieve our Kyoto target, 100 pst. I'm sure. We're going to meet those obligations. So the next discussion is, what do we do after 2013? The EU has not concluded, nor have we, on the exact figures. However, we have said that we should be as ambitious as the EU in contributing to global emission reductions. However, the EU has (1) not concluded on the figure, and (2) it must be remembered that they have not been distributed among the different countries, and much less agreed on how to take it at home or outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e399	I am pleased that the Prime Minister underlines so clearly that what is now to be done to meet the Kyoto targets that we are bound by in this round, for a substantial part, is to be done at home. That position divides the left. It becomes too easy to say, as someone today does, that a rich country like Norway can always travel with all its money to a low-cost country and buy all its reductions. Something has to happen outside, I'm sure that I and the Prime Minister agree. But it will also have to cost at home, both because it is necessary for the environment, and because it is a valuable, a moral aspect here, and it is that we should also take the necessary roofs at home. I am glad that the Prime Minister is so clear on this, because I have not perceived that clarity constantly. But I am pleased, and I share that view, and it will be supported by the Prime Minister as the measures come. Then I probably also agree with the Prime Minister that the important thing is now to deliver results, and in and of course not just to keep up the figures. But I would nevertheless stress the importance of measurement, because when nation and government commit to target numbers, they invite the country to a national effort for reduction. It gives the Prime Minister strength when he turns to industry and car owners and what it must be, and says listen here, you have to stand up for the country with reductions. That's why measurement is important. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e406	The answer to that is absolutely yes. We have to have measurement numbers, but in addition to measurement numbers, we also have to have clear commitments. So we have a numerically fixed clear commitment that goes into effect until 2013. But when you want to put clear numbers, you also have to be clear about what the numbers are about. Because I think some of the confusion now -- at least there's been some uncertainty -- is about what numbers we're talking about. Just to clarify when, for example: says ‘as the EU’: well, the EU has a common target, a commitment, after the Kyoto agreement of minus 8 pst. But that doesn't mean that each EU country has to take minus 8 pst. For example, Spain will increase by some 20 pst., Denmark will decrease by 21 pst., Greece will increase by 25 pst. and Romania shall take minus many percent. You can look at Denmark again. Denmark has committed to an allowance of minus 21 pst, but that does not mean that the emissions will decrease by 21 pst. magazines in Denmark. After all, they will take a substantial part of that reduction in other countries through the purchase of allowances. Denmark faces three numbers: 8 pst. as in the EU, 21 p.m. as a commitment and a completely different figure as reductions in Denmark. So when you're going to do like Denmark, there's a little bit of different numbers you think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e413	There will be follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e416	It's nice to hear the Prime Minister speak hot for the quota trade. When the Progress Party spoke early in January of that we should spend NOK 1 billion a year on quota trading, it was ridiculed by the Minister for the Environment. Now, obviously, the Minister for the Environment has been parked on that issue as well. It's interesting to listen to the Prime Minister who says that the beautiful thing in the Soria Moria statement is how one solves the internal problems. Whenever one constantly sees divorce debates in the newspapers from some of the ‘real partners’, one must say that there is a nice way to look at it beautifully. For approx. A year ago, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Environmental Protection were at Kårstø. They boasted that during 2009 there would be a CO2 cleaning plant in place. On questions from the Evening Post about what is the alternative to a failed, the Prime Minister stated that there are no alternatives to success. This is what we're going to do. Then it is interesting to ask the following question: Is the Prime Minister determined by the fact that there will be a sewage treatment plant for CO2 in place at Kårstø during 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e431	Quota trading is an important tool for reducing emissions. One who was the driver of it was Al Gore, in front of the Kyoto negotiations, and it's very good that it got in place in the Kyoto agreement. Even I was involved in working for it, among other things. in the Workers' Party at the end of the 1980s, when I led the Workers' Party's Environment Committee, and we were in favour of that kind of mechanism. Gro Harlem Brundtland was also the driver of this type of thinking. What's strange is to hear the Progress Party being for international trading and these kinds of mechanisms, because it's totally dependent on us having an international agreement that makes it possible to implement emission reductions across borders. The only agreement we have for that is the Kyoto agreement, and the Progress Party voted against. So they're for something of the Kyoto agreement, but they're against the agreement itself. Therefore, there would have been no trading of allowances, there would have been no effective cross-border action to reduce world greenhouse gas emissions, if the Progress Party had achieved its policy and voted down the Kyoto agreement. It's kind of like being for shares, but against the stock exchange. You can't be for quota trading, but against the Kyoto agreement. You have to decide. You have gradually found out about quota trade, among others. to try to establish a climate policy. In the case of Kårstø, we have received a report from NVE. We're going to go through it, and then we're going to present proposals to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e440	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e443	I think we should give the Prime Minister the opportunity to support his Minister of Environmental Protection here today. In the Political Quarter on 11 January 2007 there was an interview with the Minister for the Environment. It was then pointed out that from 2001 to 2005, Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions decreased slightly. So the reporter says, "Bjornøy thinks they're going to bring down the emissions already during this government period." Bjornøy replied, "We're going to get reduced emissions here as well." Bjørnøy says to reduce greenhouse gas emissions – not just as a long-term target by 2020, but to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 to 2010. Does the Minister for the Environment have the support of the Prime Minister in this promise? If so, if the Minister for the Environment has it, how will the Prime Minister manage to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions, as the previous government did, during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e452	We will make significant efforts to achieve significant emission reductions in Norway. We are doing well, partly through the measures that have been taken, including: The CO2 tax, which has reduced to 3 million tonnes, among others. on the base. Then we will implement new measures. That is why we are coming soon with an allowance system to contribute to further emission reductions. We are in the process of implementing emission reductions. We have said that we must achieve the Kyoto objective. But neither the previous government nor the current government has quantified how much of what's going to happen at home, and how much of what's going to happen through emission reductions that we're financing in other countries. It is essential that we take a significant part at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e460	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e464	Last week the Prime Minister received a certificate from Siv Jensen, and I agree with this certificate. There are slight differences between the Labour Party and the Progress Party in climate policy. What does this tell us? Yes, how little ambitious climate policy the Prime Minister stands for. One visible proof of this is that Jens Stoltenberg and Siv Jensen are the only party leaders who do not have concrete ambitions in terms of a climate settlement – even though the Prime Minister earlier said in this questionnaire that it is the most important issues of our time – and also have no target for 2020, as opposed to Angela Merkel, Göran Persson, Tony Blair and Arnold Schwarzenegger, just to mention someone. Does the Prime Minister consider Norway to be a leading country on climate and environmental issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e476	Norway is a leading country in the field of environmental policy, partly through the comprehensive measures we are implementing nationally – we are among the countries most advanced in the use of economic instruments, and we are making a major technological uplift in Mongstad by getting CO2 clean-up there – and partly through the driving role we have had in getting new international climate agreements, not just the one we got, the Kyoto agreement, but also a new agreement that will follow the Kyoto agreement. In the case of the Progress Party, the difference between us and them is very big. The most important thing is that the Progress Party still doubts whether we have sufficient knowledge to take the greenhouse effect seriously. The Working Party does not. The second is that the Progress Party voted against the Kyoto agreement, which is the core wall of all efforts to reduce world greenhouse gas emissions. The third is that the Progress Party has voted against important climate action such as: investment in rail and public transport. It is true that the EU has a proposal for a target of 20-30 pst. But as I tried to explain instead, they haven't distributed it between countries. What is absolutely certain is that there will not be a percentage reduction in countries. It's going to be different. For example, Sweden now has a plus 4 pst., although the EU target is minus 8 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e495	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e498	Last week the Prime Minister gave a speech to the National Government of the Workers' Party, where environmental and climate issues were at the centre of his speech. It was a speech of tactics and technique, not of values and political leadership. Many people were disappointed in the environmental movement, and we were disappointed in the left. But it may be a comfort that it triggered a wholehearted congratulations from the Progress Party, no later than today, for the full success of the Workers' Party in climate policy. SV is defeating environmental policy. In order to justify why the lot is in government, the SV manager says, inter alia. that, without an SV in government, a highly polluting gas power plant would be built on each nose. Can the Prime Minister confirm that without the government's SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre's party would live out their lay, put the whole country into service and built polluting gas power stations on every nose?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e507	This government is building an environmentally friendly gas power plant, and we have done significantly more than the previous government. The previous government agreed to build a gas power plant on Melkoya, gave an emission permit and concession, and built there a gas power plant with zero cleaning measures. The first gas power plant that was built was the previous government that took responsibility for it. To say it like that: I didn't quite disagree with that decision, but then hearing one from the left is worried that we're building gas power plants with cleaning in Mongstad, gets a little funny. Furthermore, we take responsibility for bringing down the emissions. The speech I gave in the National Government of the Labour Party was very clear that this is one of our greatest challenges as humanity, and therefore we must both make significant emission reductions nationally and also contribute to countries like China, India and Brazil limiting their emissions, for 70 pst. world emissions are not covered by the Kyoto Agreement. We have to pay for emission reductions in the poor countries. If not, the total emissions do not decrease.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e514	If you give me a little bit of gas, you get another main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e517	When this government joined, it was an area where the Prime Minister was very concerned. It was that this government was going to go ahead to get a good dialogue and a good cooperation climate with the opposition in Stortinget. Now it turns out that maybe that's the opposite that's happened. I think on behalf of the opposition can allow me to say that. A number of examples can be cited where this government actually acts almost closed in relation to the necessary information for the Storting. In this regard, I would like to mention a few examples. The report by the competent authorities of the Coast Guard Agency on all oil preparedness deficiencies has been in the Ministry since January 2006 without the Stortinget being given access to it. I can mention the letter that went from the four parliamentary leaders of the Stortingen on the Services Directive, where the answer from the Prime Minister was that first the Government should conclude, and then the opposition might have to join the dialogue afterwards. It could also be pointed out to the questioning institute, where we experience almost every Wednesday that the state councils do not respond to the challenges that come from the opposition but go to direct attacks on the opposition instead of being constructive, responding and creating dialogue. Was it this Prime Minister's opinion that this government should go ahead to create dialogue and cooperate with the opposition in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e528	The current government is a majority government. Therefore, it can get through proposals in the Storting based on the government parties. Despite that, the government has nevertheless been concerned that in some cases we should seek broader reconciliation. There will certainly be many issues, probably the majority, where the opposition disagrees with the Government. That's why it's in opposition and we're in government. In other things, we'll look for wider settlements. This applies, for example: the work that is now taking place on retirement. It's a big and important thing, one of the biggest and most important things this big business is going to deal with. Another matter of the same character, which is also very important, is the state-church question, where we will also seek broad settlements. But we have also found broader solutions in other individual matters. Among other things, in connection with the state budget, we came to an understanding with the Christian People's Party when it came to bet on the voluntary sector. So we've searched and will still seek consensus. As far as oil protection is concerned, the Minister for Fisheries has received that letter, and he will consider what can be done in relation to that report. It is crucial, despite all the fact that the Government is now stepping up its efforts for oil protection. We re-establish the oil warehousing pot on Fedje, so that we can get a better oil defense in that part of the country. We have changed the fairway, and we have implemented measures for more automatic tracking and tracking of ships along the Norwegian coast. We're stepping up oil protection. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e535	It seems, on the basis of the answer to the Prime Minister, that it is where the Government has a conflict and disagrees, that we are seeking dialogue and cooperation in the Stortinget. I might have a certain understanding of that when this government wears down in every direction in almost every case. But I must say that the Progress Party is very pleased that the Government has now fallen to the conclusion that the deposit in Fedje will be re-established, as our proposal, which is already under discussion in the Grand Duchy, is based on that. So we're satisfied with that. Another area that I think is very important is that of quality reporting for state investment. It is a tight regime in the Ministry of Finance for investments over 500 million. State resources. It is almost impossible for the Storting to gain transparency in these quality reports, even if you try it over and over again. What is the purpose and agenda of the Government failing to produce this type of report to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e544	I am a follower of maximum openness. I do not know about the quality reporting of projects above – was it...
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e549	500 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e555	Yeah, 50 or 500, or what it is -- I don't know how it's handled in terms of publicity and the Stortinget. But in general, we have a disclosure law, and we have an information obligation towards Stortinget. This government is committed to follow-up also in the case of investment projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e560	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e563	I think many of the Prime Minister's attempts to answer today prove that the Government and the Prime Minister are not interested in answering opposition questions, but rather in attacking them. We saw that at the latest in the question from Ketil Solvik-Olsen, about what the Government wants to do in connection with Kårstø. Instead of answering that question, the Prime Minister came with a similar lesson with untruths about the Progress Party. So the Prime Minister said, "I am a member of the highest possible openness." Why in the world will the Prime Minister not step in to release a classified report from the Coastal Works, which is about oil conservation along the coast? This is a question on which the coastal population is concerned, on which the Storting is concerned — yes, on which they are all, most of them are concerned. Why in the world should not that report be able to flow to the public, so that the Storting may also see the basis for the Government to now suddenly come to restore the deposit in Fedje, which is a good decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e570	I make every effort to answer the questions asked by the representatives in this questioning process. But what characterizes some of the questions is that first you attack the government – you put a lot of premises – and then you have a question at the end. Then I take the freedom both to comment on the attacks and to answer the question that comes to the end. When it comes to questions from the Progress Party on Gas Power Plants, I showed that the Progress Party has voted against the Kyoto agreement – it is an important information that undermines the argument of the Progress Party on Quota Trading. Then I replied when it came to gas power plants, which is the answer, that we have now received a report from the NVE to look at both costs and techniques in the Kårstø project, and then we will promote a case for Stortinget when we are done with it. As far as oil protection is concerned, the Government has started work on stepping up oil protection. We've changed traffic controllers – put them further out – so that there's a longer distance from the coast. We have strengthened the electronic monitoring of ships, and we have now also decided that we should transform the decision of the previous government to close the oil warehousing pot on Fedje. We want to do what we promised in the election campaign – fulfill another election vow, as this government does in all cases – by ensuring that we get increased oil protection preparedness. As far as the report is concerned, I have asked the Minister for Fisheries to look at it. Then we'll get back to whether it can be published.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e581	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e584	When we have a majority government, it is especially important that the government is consciously important to be transparent. A majority government does not provide the same floodlighting of the decision-making process as that of a minority government, where the decisions are more widely taken here in the Grand Duchy. Yesterday it became known that a representative from the Defence Agency did not get involved in the debate in Tabloid. It helps us to have a less informed debate when the professionals do not get involved in the debates. It is also known that the government does not want to fully understand the results of the schools, by shutting down the School Gate by far. It limits transparency. My question relates to whether the Prime Minister will now clarify down the systems that it will be possible for defence representatives, as an example, to be able to participate in debates, in order to get a professionally based and informed open debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e593	I repeat and underline again that I am too open. We also want to practise more transparency where it is possible in relation to both documents, participation and information. Then there are some documents and some information that need to be exempted from publicity. It was for the previous government, and it is for the current government. As for the debate in Tabloid, I don't know what happened before the program, and what assessments were made there, whether someone was prevented from participating or not. Therefore, I want to be very careful to comment on such a single matter and a single situation that has arisen before Tabloid, before I have put myself better into that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e600	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e603	Earlier today, there have been issues related to Norwegian intervention in Afghanistan, and it has previously been somewhat unclear to the opposition whether we have received requests from NATO. So also at that point, there might be a need for greater transparency from the Government. We in the Christian People's Party are interested in contributing to a lively political debate also in the Storting, but at the same time we see that there are signs of an increasing majority arrogance. Health East and Health South are being merged without having any special discussion with the country's parliament. The objective of full childcare coverage, which has been decided by the Stortinget, seems to be subject to change with some procuratory measures by the Ministry. And there is no particular willingness to discuss the Services Directive with the bodies of Storting until it is absolutely necessary. Will the Prime Minister and the Government take any action to prevent an increasing majority arrogance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e614	I don't want to be arrogant. I want to listen and have dialogue, and in important matters we have had dialogue with Stortinget. I mentioned pensions and state churches, and I also mentioned the Christian People's Party and the State Budget. Sometimes I'm a little unsure about what you mean we don't inform, for example. whether we have received a request from NATO, which was the basis of the question. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in yesterday's statement: ‘Norway received on 5 February this year a specific request from NATO commander to make additional military contributions in the form of Hercule transport aircraft, F-16 fighter aircraft or a Special Forces Department.’ That was the enquiry. We said no to Hercules, and we said no to F-16, but we said yes to the Special Forces Department. And then we've also made it clear that it's not appropriate to put it in south of Afghanistan, or outside Kabul. That has been emphasised by the Foreign Minister, and I have underlined that, and the Minister for Defence has underlined that. So these forces are to be inserted into Kabul, they're not to be removed from the Kabul region. On all other issues, we are engaged in dialogue, also in relation to the Services Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e628	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e632	There is a quality in the Norwegian democracy in the relationship between accumulation and government that it is the government apparatus, departments and government, which also represents the knowledge base for policy design for the opposition. In changing governments and oppositions, it has always been possible to ask questions, to get a professional basis for designing a policy, and to trust that it will always be done without political silage and with a high level of quality, which we know Norwegian government stands for. We have recently seen the contours of the fact that precise answers, which may require professional questions and be carried out further by various state councils, have begun to get a polemic character, where one does not give the professional recordings, but almost goes to polemic counterattacks. We in the Left have seen the need to send a letter to the Presidency where one charges this to the Prime Minister and asks him to continue this good tradition of communicating the necessary professional base. Since we perceive this situation, will the Prime Minister do so and intensify it against his government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e641	I want to make sure that the answers that go to the Stortinget are professionally well thought out, are good answers and give the Storting the decision-making basis that you want and that you have a right to. I believe, as the representative Sponheim, that it is an important quality of Norwegian society that both the position and the opposition can relate to the same office, the same factual description and the same sense of reality as the Norwegian government conveys, both to magnification and government. So that's exactly what we agree on. Let me also add – as it relates – that in the case of the Services Directive, there is not one issue that the Government is trying to deny. We have sent it out to broad consultation, and then everyone can take part in this debate. And when the hearing is over, we can sum up and discuss the conclusions with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e648	So it's the oral change, and we're going to the ordinary questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e654	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time; the Council of State is suffering from disease. Question 5, from the representative Per-Kristian Foss to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be addressed by the representative Martin Engeset. Question 7, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is moved and answered to question 25. Question 26, from the representative of Øyvind Halleraker to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, will be moved and answered before question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e675	Since I understand that SV is now going to discuss its own government participation, I am at least very happy to be able to ask this question before any new finance minister comes and answers: ‘At a conference 6-7. This year, under the auspices of the U.D., participants discussed, among other things, the possibility of a low fee on foreign exchange transactions – 0,005 pst. to finance assistance. In contrast to the so-called Tobin tax, there is no objective of such a charge to reduce currency speculation, only to increase subsidies for international assistance. The Council of State will contribute to the extension of the discussion beyond this conference by presenting an assessment of this, for example: in the revised national budget 2007?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e684	Firstly, I would like to reiterate to the representative Syversen that I have a clear goal of asking in the Questionnaire many times in the future and answering good questions, such as: This. For the period from 1 September 2006 to 1. In March 2007, Norway chaired the Leading Group on Solidarity Levies to Fund Development, the so-called pilot group for innovative funding mechanisms. This group has worked on the French proposal for a solidarity levy on air travel, but has also dealt with other forms of innovative funding mechanisms, including: a tax on currency transactions. A starting point for this work is the Soria Moria Declaration, which says that the Government will ‘give priority to international agreements on new global sources of funding which may contribute to the redistribution and strengthening of UN institutions, air taxes, carbon taxes, taxes on arms trade or the levy on foreign exchange transactions’. The government has not assessed the introduction of some form of foreign exchange tax for development purposes. However, Norway will continue to support the current discussion on such financing, and the pilot group is expected to continue to deal with foreign exchange taxes as a topic. At the conference in Oslo from 6 to 7. In February, several participating NGOs proposed to set up their own international working group on foreign exchange taxation. Norway will now explore the interest of other Member States in the pilot group in order to establish such a group. It would be natural to inform the Storting about the discussion on foreign exchange tax once a possible working group has been set up. I would like to point out that in these debates, the objective of various forms of solidarity charges is to increase assistance in countries that do not give priority to achieving the 0.7 p.m. objective of GNI for development assistance. Norway is one of the few countries that meet it, and we also have a clear objective to increase it. If Norway wants to increase the assistance we provide, it is just as good to take as a budget appropriation, unless there are other things you want with a currency tax. That's another part of that discussion. That is why we see this primarily as a charge that is important to be the subject of the international debate in order to raise the overall volume of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e700	I thank you for your answer. I understand that Norway, as a nation, has intended to explore the possibilities of setting up an international working group, for, as the Council of State said, to assess whether this is feasible, and whether it has consent, I expect, internationally. So my question is short and good: even if we meet the requirement that the Council of State referred to in terms of aid, 0.7 pst., Norway’s position could be equally significant in order for more countries to increase their assistance to the world’s poor. Will the Government put pressure on that effort to contribute to the world’s poor by increasing the contribution of more countries and should it contribute more?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e709	Yes, we are actively involved in this French route of an air fare, and we are exploring the possibilities of getting more countries to think that a currency tax can help finance aid. That's of course because we have a strong international commitment. Norway prioritises assistance highly, and I would like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for the job they did in government by being able to keep a high level of this. We have the ambition of stepping up. If we can also help other countries to step up their efforts through different forms of financial instruments, we can achieve far more than what we can manage just Norwegian state budgets. I share the commitment of the representative Syversen. My response can be interpreted in such a way that we work in international contexts to look at the possibility of different forms of international financial instruments to increase assistance. I would like to come back to Stortinget with a briefing when we have come a while on the way, so that there is some substance to report.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e720	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘The finnmark property is now exempt from VAT on hunting and fishing. This means that the state competes with private owners of hunting and fishing rights, but at 25 pst. better conditions. Derogations from VAT legislation should be very well justified. Does the Council of State consider that the type of ownership is a good justification for an exception and for such discrimination in the marketing of hunting and fishing rights, or will it consider removing all VAT? in hunting and fishing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e729	The placing on the market of fishing licenses and of hunting licenses for small game and wild reindeer hunting in rural general, in general government and on other state grounds, according to administrative practices based on the VAT Act § 70, is not subject to VAT. These exceptions have been based mainly on the assessment by the Ministry of Justice and the Police Department that the right to hunting and fishing under the mountain law is an all-man's right which cannot be transposed into VAT law. The relevant provisions on hunting and fishing in the Finnland Act are comparable to the corresponding provisions in the Mountain Act. For this reason, a derogation has also been granted for the placing on the market of Finnmark’s property of hunting and fishing licences, which implies a continuation of the previous tax regime for such placing on the market in Finnmark. Although it is explicitly stipulated in the Act that the turnover of hunting and fishing rights is subject to VAT, according to administrative practice, so many exceptions are established in time from this point of view that the VAT obligation currently applies mainly to private landowners — something the questioner has to ask. The whole area of VAT for the marketing of hunting and fishing licences therefore needs a review. However, such a review will require some resources and time – as we do per. has not given priority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e743	Thanks for the answer. I don't know if I'm going to say it's reassuring to do a review. I choose to perceive the answer so that you intend to do something about this discrimination. And then I would like to point out a couple of rather strong arguments for removing the difference – and exempting everything from VAT. One is that private enterprises use large amounts of private terrain. They have a deduction from VAT. I have understood the Minister of Finance so that the social side of tax regulations is quite important. When companies get this opportunity, it could mean that maybe it's better off in society that gets a better chance, for example. hunting and fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e750	I see the issues raised by the representative fleet. There is, in fact, a huge pressure on finding exemptions and relaxations in the VAT system, while the VAT system is an important part of the financing of our welfare state. That is why every time someone raises a question about the VAT system, the Minister of Finance cannot say that we are fixing an exception for this. The sum of it would be billions of lost income, even though there are small things we deal with each time. When I and the department have the capacity to do this, we'll look at this in more detail. However, the representative Fleet cannot derive from my answer a promise that there will be VAT exemptions for private owners as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e759	Experience has taught me that what the Minister of Finance says in this Chamber, does not mean that promises are to be made very quickly. It's important to pay attention to the fact that I'm not talking about making an exception. I'm talking about removing an exception, so it's going to be equal to the whole area. I think it's pretty important. I also believe that this discussion is about the fact that in the general public and in the Finnmark property there is more than coverage for expenses. It is to some extent also when private individuals trade. First comes the coverage of expenditure, since the profit comes – which finance ministers do not always like as well, but it is there. By removing the VAT in total, I think you will also release this discussion. And that's actually a pretty important distinction. I don't see the answer as a promise, but at least I see it as a promise to go strongly into the matter and really look at the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e770	This matter is not at the top of my pile on the desk, but I will look further at it. After all, we will immediately enter new, different boundaries in terms of the VAT system. If it's the case that people who make good money renting out private hunting grounds do not have to pay VAT, it's very easy for other groups involved in other types of activities to invoke the same justification for VAT exemptions. That's the background for my answer. I am concerned that we should have as consistent a VAT system as possible. It is an important source of funding for the welfare state. We already have problems with many and unjust exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e783	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘Reorganisation of the tax rate has led to a number of proposals for amendments to the Equation Act. Simplification of decision-making, which is, in fact, only a decision without justification, is much more widespread. Does the Council of State believe that it is in line with good service and transparency in the administration that decisions taken by the tax office should not be justified?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e792	Efforts are constantly being made to develop measures to make tax payers’ contacts with the tax system simpler and more user-friendly, and the work of the agency more effective. The rules on simplified decision-making are such a measure. The rules on simplified decision-making were introduced in 2004 and have so far been limited to the specific rules on the equation of operators. The main purpose of these rules was to make more efficient and rational use of the resources of the EQS and to increase the quality of the equation for business. In the context of the reorganisation of the tax rate, the rules were extended to all taxpayers. Enlargement is related to the other changes in the complaint and redress system. The simplified decision-making procedure provides for a derogation from the general rule that decisions to amend the equation must be justified. It can only be used when the taxpayer has not objected to a change notice or when the taxpayers' complaint is fully followed. Where the authorities of the Equation raise a case for a change other than on complaint from the taxpayer, the taxpayer shall be notified. The warning shall indicate the changes that the Equation Office wishes to make and the reasons for such changes. If the taxpayer does not object to the notice of amendment, the equation authorities may use the simplified form of decision. In these cases, no justification is necessary because the justification has already been given in the notice for which the taxpayer has not objected. The equality authorities may also use the simplified form of decision in the case of amendment following a complaint from the taxpayer. The assumption is that the taxpayer’s complaint is fully followed. In these cases, neither will there be a need for the equivalency authorities to justify the decision. Where taxpayers’ complaints are not followed, or where taxpayers have objections to the notice of amendment, the authorities shall take a reasoned decision. Where the authorities of the Equation use simplified decision-making, tax payers will always be similar in accordance with the complaint or alert. However, tax authorities will have access to appeals against the amending decisions of the Equation Authorities. Such a complaint is currently being dealt with by the conciliation panel and will be dealt with by the tax appeal panel when the new rules enter into force. Decisions taken by these names will always be justified. In my opinion, the rules on simplified decision-making are in line with the desire for good service and transparency in administration. Tax collectors are given the same information on the basis for the change in the equation as when a reasoned decision is taken. In addition, changes can be implemented more quickly, often increasing the predictability of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e811	I thank the Council of State for the answer. More feedback has been received, including: from someone who characterises himself as a private equality officer. I have received the following e-mail from the person concerned: ‘Writeing such a short and informative decision obviously does not take long. Nevertheless, some have clearly learned that it is a very resource-intensive act. At my discretion, it should be an obvious service act for any administrative body to confirm receipt of an enquiry from the public, and what the result is – whether or not it is full support.” For the Right, and I would also believe for the Minister of Finance, it is to do have a government that is as service-set as possible, which produces the best possible results based on the issues that come, and not least as correct results as possible. If, as the Minister of Finance sees it, some equality officials think it is appropriate to have the opportunity to make an additional comment, even if they are initially obliged to use the so-called simplified form of decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e825	We're in a situation where the tax authorities are among the public agencies that get the best shots of consumers and taxpayers. It's very joyful. This means that they have put themselves in a huge harness to be at the forefront in terms of simplifications, in terms of possibilities for electronic return on the billing, sending SMSes, etc. We're doing a lot of improvements in that direction. It is of course also to have an effective handling of the cases. I have not seen that there has been a storm of objections from Equators regarding the way we treat this. I have also realized that the information that taxpayers receive is sufficient. If there are a lot of requests about this, we could do a survey. But I may not think we should make major changes to today's practice because the representative Skovholt Gitmark has received an e-mail.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e832	I am satisfied with the answer. I will provide the Council of State with the necessary information so that she can look at it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e837	That's what we're saying!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e853	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e860	This question, from the representative Per-Kristian Foss to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e863	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘How can the Government contribute to ensuring the judicial process and reconciliation of Kurd leader Abdullah Öcalan in line with the Council of Europe Conventions and the decisions of the Court of Human Rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e870	Like the representative, the Government is committed to contributing to ensuring the judicial process and reconciliation of Governor Abdullah Öcalan, who is in line with the Council of Europe Conventions and the decisions of the Court of Human Rights. We do this not least through our participation in the relevant bodies of the Council of Europe. The Anti-Torture Committee of the Council of Europe, the CPT, has regular contact with Turkish authorities, including with regard to Öcalan. The delegation of Norway to the Council of Europe follows this work, both in contact with the Secretariat of the CPT and when the CPT participates in the meetings of the Committee of Ministers to explain its work. Norway will continue to contribute to ensuring that Öcalan’s housing conditions are in line with the Council of Europe Conventions. I can give the representative a little more background on this matter. The European Court of Human Rights delivered its judgment in Öcalan v Turkey on 12 May 2005. Turkey was convicted of a number of violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Court ruled, inter alia, that: that Öcalan was not convicted by an independent and impartial court and that the proceedings were not fair. The Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee supervises the enforcement by the States of judgments handed down by the Court of Human Rights. The Öcalan case has been on the agenda of each supervisory meeting since July 2005. It has been found that Turkey has taken a number of general measures to avoid similar breaches of the Convention for the future. Among other things, participation of military judges in criminal proceedings in Turkey ended in 1999, and a new penal code was adopted in 2005 with enhanced rights for the accused. Turkey abolished the death penalty in 2001. In the case of individual measures, a Turkish appeal court has assessed Öcalan’s request for the resumption of the criminal proceedings, but rejected it on the grounds that a new case would not have resulted in a different outcome. According to the case-law of the Court of Human Rights, there is no unconditional requirement to reopen a criminal case, even if the proceedings have not been fair. An individual assessment must be made in each case. This is also the case under Norwegian law. In this case, the Ministerial Committee has accepted the Turkish judicial decision. As Turkey is now deemed to have taken the necessary measures to comply with the Öcalan judgment of 2005, the Ministerial Committee closed its proceedings at its Supervisory Meeting yesterday on 13 February. The final resolution was adopted without a vote. However, Öcalan’s lawyers are not satisfied with the treatment of the resumption request, and have recently sent a new complaint to the Human Rights Court. In the case of Öcalan’s reconciliation, these were not considered contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights in the judgment given by the Court of Human Rights in 2005. The Anti-Torture Committee of the Council of Europe, the CPT, has visited Öcalan for three years and is engaged in ongoing dialogue with the Turkish authorities on his reconciliation. The Committee shall work, inter alia, on: for his relatives and lawyers to have better access to prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e889	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. It is true that the Norwegian delegation to the Council of Europe has engaged a great deal in this matter. That's also the background that Per-Kristian Foss has raised this question to the Foreign Minister that he asked me yesterday to speak on his behalf, since he had no occasion himself. I also know the case from the previous period, when I had the pleasure of being part of the delegation to the Council of Europe. But the current delegation to the Council of Europe has, among other things, by letter to the Turkish ambassador in Norway and also to the Council of Europe’s so-called Anti-Torture Committee, CPT, on the settlement of Öcalan. I have understood that the Ministerial Committee concluded yesterday in relation to the resumption case, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs was aware of that in his reply. Was it so that this was decided without a vote? Or in case: What was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' instructions to the Norwegian Ambassador on the occasion of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e896	No, it is therefore true that with regard to the assessment made against Turkey's commitment to do so, namely to take the necessary measures to comply with this judgment, the Ministerial Committee has examined the matter at its supervisory meeting. In such a situation, as far as I know, the resolution is adopted without a vote. I'm not aware that there are dissenters around it. But let me stress that I believe that the attention that parliamentarians from other European countries are constantly showing in this matter is important, and experience shows that focusing on individual matters is important, including in this matter. Here it is a highly profiled person who is interested in a little wider, but focusing on his situation also matters to the situation of other prisoners. So I can assure the representative – and hope he will pass it on to the representative Foss – that we will continue to follow this matter bilaterally. But we have experience that, in addition to keeping them alive in the international multilateral forums in which we participate, it is important to keep them alive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e903	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses this. It is such that this case also raises a larger question, namely about the Kurdish minority in Turkey’s overall position. And that is not an entirely immaterial question relating to Turkey's possible membership of the EU. That's to the extent that a discussion we as non-member countries don't get the pleasure of participating in, but it raises very important questions. So I hope and believe that the Norwegian delegation to the Council of Europe will be concerned with these questions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e910	I would just like to stress that Norway supports several human rights projects in Turkey where Kurds are also target groups. It is a group that deserves attention in order to exercise its rights. As the representative, I would like to stress that the role of Turkey as a bridge builder – geographically, culturally and in many other contexts – is of great importance. Then it is important that we also focus on minority groups like this. We'll do that. But I think it is also important, as the representative says, that the main player here is actually one where we do not have a prominent role, namely the European Union. What the EU is doing in relation to integration towards Turkey, I think, is one of the biggest political issues we are facing in Europe today. At least we want to do what we can through bilateral dialogue and through the forums we're in, as we are in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e923	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The completion of the Clean technical workshop in Hedmark has allowed itself to wait for several years, to a great deal of frustration for the users. Recently, there have been positive signs that the necessary financial resources will come this year. Can the Council of State confirm this and indicate when the workshop will be completed and prepared for use?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e932	The project for the technical workshop at Rena was adopted by Stortinget in the course of the defence investment proposal in the spring of 2003. The project would cover the need for increased workshop capacity in the Østerdalen, as a result of the decisions underpinning the reorganisation of the defence in the period 2002–2005. In the course of the implementation of the project, it was decided, as a measure to keep the cost framework of the project, not to complete one of the two workshop floats. Rather, this would be used for the time being as a frost-free warehouse. The workshop building was put into service in January 2005. In view of the notified needs of the Defence Logistics Organisation, in December 2006 the Ministry of Defence commissioned the Defence Department to prepare a pre-project for the completion of the Rena technical workshop. Alternative solutions, costs and timescales for the project will be identified here. The pre-project is planned to be promoted to the Ministry in May 2007, i.e. in spring. However, I would like the pilot project to be seen in conjunction with the mission given to the Defence Logistics Organisation to implement measures to streamline the maintenance activities. The size of the budget for 2007 was briefed on the implementation of such measures by the Defence Logistics Organisation. The defence logistical organisation is mandated to develop an internal efficiency plan for, inter alia: the workshop capacities, and will make a recommendation to that effect before the summer. The aim is to optimise workshop operations through rational operation and exploitation of synergies between workshops. When the pre-project and the internal efficiency plan of the Defence Logistics Organisation are in place before the summer, the Ministry will decide on the possible completion of the Clean Technical Workshop.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e947	I thank the Council of State for the answer and the summary and the history of the workshop. It is a pity that the last part of the workshop was not prepared and used, as it should have been. When it was expanded – to say it this way – but not completed, it was missing approximately. 50 million. kr to be completed. Today it will probably cost something more, unfortunately. I also notice that the Council of State's briefing does not promise that the workshop will be completed as a workshop, at least I did not interpret it from the briefing, but that we have to wait until May to hear what the department thinks about this, on the basis of studies and what is going on. At least there is no doubt that there is a great, great need for this workshop hall at approx. 5000 m2 shall be completed. Today, 79 people work at the workshop. It's not the slightest doubt that you have the capacity to do more if the hall had been finished, and you could have another 15 to 20 people, because there's so much demand for that capacity up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e959	I am aware that at most of the defence workshops there is a lot of work at the moment. Nevertheless, when we're going to expand something new, like this, we have to be absolutely sure that's what we need, and that's going to be the right resource use. But as I said, a pre-project is under way. It will be finished in May this year, and then I choose to wait and see the result. I also think it is important that we see the workshop and the need for workshop capacity in conjunction with the other workshops related to this, among other things. on Elverum.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e964	I thank the Council of State once again for the answer, and I record that the Council of State is awaiting this for the project. As the workshops operate at Rena now, it costs approx. Five million. kr more per. years to drive them versus finishing the hall we lack, so that in every way you can be more resource-efficient. Today, materials from Rena are being run at only a four-hour service – I think of Scania and Mercedes Geländewagen – to Lillehammer. It's pretty far to run that distance, and you waste a lot of time. In addition, you drive Leopard cars from Rena to Rinnläret in Trøndelag at the workshop there. Nor can it be very resource efficient. So there's a lot that tells us that we should build this hall of 5,000 m2. As it works today, there's a lot more expensive operation up there. We may have the world's most expensive cold stores. It's not the defense worthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e974	I share Mr. Bredvold's opinion that we must operate our workshops in an optimal way for the defence, so that we use our resources in the best possible way. But that is also exactly why I have asked that this pre-project be completed and presented to me, and that I also see the results of the internal efficiency improvement. Because here we also have to see the different workshops in the context, with the clear goal in mind that it should be the best possible for the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e991	This question has been raised. Question 8 will be answered to question 25. So we go to question 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1002	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: The ‘Server’ loss outside Fedje has revealed that the Coastal Works did not take any initiative to obtain bilges and ship assistance from Mongstad and other available resources. This is alarming when the Coastal Plant itself has used the global argumentation in connection with the transfer of the main depot from Fedje to Florø. It is assumed that available preparedness is exploited, that the Coastal Plant actively uses civil equipment and equipment at its disposal. Can the Council of State answer as to why this was not done?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1011	The Norwegian oil protection system is based on an efficient and comprehensive use of society’s available resources and good cooperation between private, municipal and state actors. Nor is it true that the Coastal Plant has not used available standby or has not used available resources in the area in connection with the ‘Server’ loss. Coastal plant traffic centre at Fedje, Fedje VTS, had continuous contact with MS ‘Server’ in the minutes before the ground-breaking at 1 p.m. Eighteen twenty-five. After the grounding was a fact, Fedje VTS immediately contacted the ropeboats «Velox» and «Audax». Both are connected to the Sture Terminal, and both vessels have oil protection equipment on board, i.e. 250 metres of oil bilge and one oil collector each. In addition, the tugboat ‘Belos’ was called. It is linked to the Mongstad Refinery. I don't know. 18.52 “Belos” reached the “Server” and at 6 p.m. 19.20 "Velox" and "Audax" arrived. In addition, a number of other vessels were mobilized by both the Main Rescue Center and the Fedje VTS, among others. Coast Guard vessels KV «Ålesund», KV «Tromsø» and KV «Eigun», all with 300 metres of oil bilge and oil collectors on board. The first of these, KV ‘Tromsø’, was at Fedje ca. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 21.45. I don't know. 20.50. The entire crew was evacuated from MS ‘Server’ and the Coast Guard took over the action management from the Main Rescue Center. At that time, there were five ships equipped with oil protection equipment at or on the way to the Hagarist – also mentioned from Statoil Mongstad and Hydro Sture. It was attached to the ‘Server’ of TB ‘Belos’. TB ‘Baut’, also associated with the Mongstad Refinery, was also in the area. In addition, the local action apparatus, the IUA Bergen region, was notified of the incident, and contact was established with rescue competence through Bukser and Berging, the owner of the tugboats ‘Belos’ and ‘Baut’. Unfortunately, severe weather conditions and high waves during and after the loss of ‘Server’ made it impossible for much of the available oil protection equipment to be used immediately. In order to identify potential oil spills, helicopters were leased in with an infrared camera from Norsk Hydro to detect oil spills. This flew over the area from approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 02.00 to 04.00. On the evening of 12 January, crews and resources were mobilised from the main government depots at Ågotnes, at Bergen and Hardbakke, in Solund, as well as ordinary ferries to transport the equipment to the Fedje area. To establish standby and call the front ship with oil lenses at the CCB Ågotnes, the company Maritime Environmental Preparedness was engaged. The operation started when the front ship arrived at CCB at 0 p.m. 10 a.m. on the morning of 13 January. The coast works and IUA Bergen have a good overview of the resources at Sture and Mongstad. Both personnel and their equipment were used during the operation. Both the «Slupen» oil recorder and the Current Buster drainage system were used in the course of the operation together with personnel in the Bergen operational loss of the action management. As the representative of Halleraker understands, the available resources in the area were used during the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1026	I thank you for your answer. Everyone is happy that the rescue operation itself at this crash went well. Unfortunately, the oil spill didn't go as well. It's a fact that the argument for moving the station to Florø was that the Fedje area was sufficiently secure because of the good preparedness in the area. Then it seems incomprehensible that the special ship «Sluppen» was at Mongstad for four days before it was recruited. The amount of oil that local people very affordable with municipal equipment were able to collect, estimated at about 30 tons, went to the game because you didn't get to summon tankers to suck up the total oil. Then the bilge exploded, and the oil floated freely again. I could mention several obvious defects and defects. Does the Council agree that this as a whole is so serious that there is a need for an examination of the entire course of action, including the response from the Horten Coastal Works, and for the report to be submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1035	It's quite natural when you've had such a disaster like this, that you have a real evaluation in retrospect. It will of course be here, with a thorough review of what was done, and what can be done better in the future. When the representative Halleraker now mentions the reason for moving the main depot from Fedje to Florø, there was a decision that the parties that are now in government never agreed to. It was the representative’s party and the other parties in the previous government that assessed it that way. That is why we have now decided that we are going to restore the depot in Fedje without removing the depot in Florø, just to ensure the security. When it comes to «Sluppen» – here, of course, I have to take all the reservations because we are going to have a proper evaluation of the action – at least the information I have received so far is that it is a boat that is not particularly navigable in large seas. As we know, the weather conditions were very difficult on Fedje when the accident occurred, and the day after the accident. After the information I received, the ‘Slurpen’ was put into service as soon as the conditions made sure it was sound and could be done with efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1044	I thank you for the answer and appreciate that we get a report on this, which we need to assess in more detail. To the Official Journal of Bergen on 15 January, the Council of State stated that he would reconsider the transfer of the main depot back to Fedje if he had proof that the “Server” accident would be better managed if the depot was still on Fedje. The council yesterday went in to move the main depot back to Fedje, and it has my and Right full support. But can the Council of State not then conclude that he is not satisfied with the course of the rescue work and the action?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1053	First a correction: It is nice that Halleraker is pleased that the depot should be moved back from Florø to Fedje. But it's not to be moved from Florø to Fedje. What the government has said is that we're going to rebuild the depot in Fedje, without taking it away in Florø. I hope they can give their support to it as well. When it comes to whether I am satisfied with the quality of the action that was carried out, I have to come back to it when we have had a thorough review. We agree that the most important thing, which is to save lives, worked incredibly effectively in view of the weather situation that was over there. But there is now oil in the frocks several places on Fedje and in the municipalities around Fedje, and it goes without saying that it has not worked well enough to prevent it. But there were special weather conditions, and we're going to go through what could be done was done. I am sure, at least, that for the people of Fedje, the security of any future difficult situation will improve when we get the main depot reestablished over there, and I am glad that we agree, despite the fact that the previous government thought it was not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1060	We're going back to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1067	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘It has now been almost two months since the fall in the Hanekeliv tunnel. The Council of State has set up a study group to identify possible reasons and propose any improvement measures. What is happening in the tunnel now, and what progress plan does the Council of State see in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1076	As the representative refers to the issue, I have set up an external investigation team to identify the cause of the breed and review the planning, construction, security and maintenance procedures. The group should also propose improvements. As stated in the terms of reference of the Group from 5 January 2007, the Group will report on the results of its work on 15 February 2007, i.e. tomorrow. In addition, the State Road Service has set up a separate group to look at current guidelines and practices for road tunnel planning, construction, operation and maintenance. Work on securing the tunnels is in full swing. It is the company Mesta that performs the work in the second run. In the northern tunnel, which one also had to add up, the work is also under way. There is the company Road Deck that carries out the work. The geologists working to map the mountain in the two tunnels have also discovered other zones that one must consider ensuring that the tunnels are closed. Thus, today may not provide a safe time for all work to be completed. One must come back when one has concluded that the geologists have done their work. I intend to provide a further briefing to the Stortinget on the accident in the Hanekleiv tunnel in the merger proposal in connection with the revised national budget, as I have also notified in a letter to the Stortinget Transport and Communications Committee on 26 January 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1087	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background to the question is that road users who normally use the Hanekeliv tunnel are very concerned about the route of unloading that is currently in use, a route of unloading that is very dangerous to traffic. I wonder if it is possible to finish until the public holiday starts, and if the Council of State will work as quickly as possible to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1092	It's probably not the government council this is dependent on, to say it like this. The term of office is given, the job is in progress. I believe the representative Tenden will agree with me that it is now important that the tunnel is properly secured, and that one does not risk putting pressure on time, whether it is for Easter or summer holidays, to help a person not do the job well enough. What I'm busy watching is that it's going to be a defensive fuse. That being said, of course, I am also busy that the period of closure of the tunnel should not be a single day longer than necessary, but he must stay so long that all the work is done defencefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1097	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Following the fall of the Hanekleiv tunnel, the Right and Left proposed the establishment of a stand-alone roadside supervision. The plural constellation of Stortinget would unfortunately not deal with this, but would await the report coming tomorrow. The idea of a stand-alone roadside surveillance was triggered by the collapse of the tunnel, but for the Left, the principle of the spread of power is so important — having a roadside surveillance in line with other independent supervision in the transport sector. Does the Council of State agree with the Left in the principle of the proliferation of power, and will it also implement it in the road sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1106	The question of own traffic control has come up in the wake of events in the Hanekeliv tunnel. We don't know per. today if a traffic control would mean anything from or to this tunnel. Maybe we'll get an answer to that tomorrow, maybe not. Let's see. Of course, the principle of the spread of power to which the representative Tenden refers is important, but in the transport sector it is also important to look at how we use it in the best possible way at all times, so that we get the most security and the most possible way back for money. All of that problem I want to see after I have received the report from the expert group, and then we get back to a possible stand-alone roadside inspection later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1117	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Many requests have been made for poor littering and maintenance on smooth and track roads in Hedmark and Uppland. The road standard varies as a result of several contractors having been invited to the maintenance. What will the Council of State do to ensure good and safe driving conditions in winter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1126	The operation of the national and county road network is carried out on the basis of the so-called ‘functional contracts’ concluded with private contractors after the start of competition. Contracts have a length of up to five years, and there are 13 such contracts in Hedmark and Uppland, covering 3,600 km of highway and 4,600 km of highway. The first part of the winter 2006/2007 has been very mild, and in Hedmark and Uppland there have been many and frequent exchanges between degrees of heat and cold, often combined with rainfall. This has sometimes resulted in smooth and difficult running conditions in both states. The roads that have been salted have had satisfactory standards, but the state road system has received much criticism for late and unsavory litter on the road network where it has used sand. Under such weather conditions it can be smooth across the entire road network at the same time. Entrepreneurs should start to bet as soon as it gets smooth, and contracts say how many hours they have to complete the work. For the national roads in Hedmark and Uppland, the same standard applies as for the national roads in general, while for the county roads local standards are given which are adapted to the importance of roads. The road authority of the State takes samples to check that the self-check of the contractor is working. The functional contracts are required to be followed up for both parties, both due to the functional requirements and the length of the road network. Samples taken in the fall and in winter have not revealed many cases where the contractor has not carried out the work within the deadline. But there's been too much case in which the contractor has been late to start work. This has been taken into account by the State Road Administration, and they are now in critical dialogue with the actors involved. There have also been features in the payments made to contractors resulting from missing fulfilment of the contracts. Work on revising the maintenance standard has been started and implemented over a year. A new maintenance standard will be incorporated into the contracts as they are renewed, thus being a long-term measure. The state road authority will consider stronger measures against contractors that could lead to more timely performance of the contracts. This may involve increased efforts on samples, follow-up of self-control by contractors and ensuring that they actually benefit from the services provided by the Road Service, such as weather radar and air-conditioning stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1143	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. I am pleased that the Council of State is taking this on board, and that enhanced control will be a major field of action in the future. What's happening is that someone takes too much care of annual traffic instead of moving out quickly and making the road safe for traffickers. The way it feels now, the broods are too long. This is to save the number of incubators, and therefore costs. In the case of large snowfalls, there will be problems, including: due to lack of capacity. The builder, who is Statens vägvesen, is responsible, and they must actually have it. What we are afraid of is that the requirements of the tender documents are so soluble that it is not profitable to move out to ensure road maintenance when, for example, it is. comes snow. There are weather and traffic conditions that must be taken into account most, not how the contract is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1152	I agree entirely with the representative Eirin Fallet in what she says. But it is that in the functional contracts that are now concluded, time and completion vary between one and four hours. On the most low-traffic state roads in Uppland, the deadline is up to six hours. It's seen by the county. The corresponding route in Hedmark should only be strangled when it is not possible for snow - scorched cars, so of course the county council has to look at it. Statens vägvesen Region east benefit first half 2006 278 annual works for random checking of 1 300 km of road in Hedmark and Oppland. In fact, it resulted in 59 cases in which contractors received withdrawals from the payments as a result of random checks. So it's clear that controls are important, and they work. It is perhaps economic that becomes the most important tool in the short term, and then we need to facilitate better functional contracts in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1159	Road maintenance is privatized so much that the responsibility is somehow powdered, and we are very sceptical of all these private contracts. I would like to ask the Council of State if she would like to facilitate the contracting entity's implementation of good quality in winter maintenance. Will the Council of State go through all the tender papers, so that we get the same standard across the country, and that local weather and management conditions are taken into account at all times? And: Will she go through the entire tender system and see if this is the right thing and the best for the road users? It's scary when bus drivers don't dare drive schoolchildren to school. That's why we have to go through the whole system in order to secure road traffic lights. We like to have controls, but we need to have such strong incentives that something is done, and that the breaker car can reach as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1168	As I said in my main answer, it's equal to the standard that's established throughout the country, so the standard shouldn't vary from state to state. Of course, what may vary during periods is weather and traffic. I do not conceal that the Council of States may also be critical of the functional contracts. I get too many reports about poor breakage, from many parts of the country – including from Hedmark – that the representative has made today. As a result, the State Road Service is now going through the functional contracts. They have a work going on – as I said, it should be completed within a year – to improve the functional contracts relating to the maintenance of the road network. I believe that this is an important work, and I hope that it will help us to achieve a better standard of road maintenance around the country, including in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1179	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Offering Gjøvikbanen has been a success and the traffic growth from the autumn of 2005 to the autumn of 2006 has been very high. On average, the increase was 15 p.m. and it shows that Gjøvikbanen’s tenders and bets have worked. The Council of State will help to further improve the Gjøvik track, including: crossing tracks, power supply, etc. so that driving time can be reduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1188	The train service on Gjøvikbana has been successful. In the framework agreement that the state has now concluded with the NSB for the next four years, we have negotiated an operating plan with rigid routes throughout the day also for other routes, the corresponding operating plan as applicable to the Gjøvik Railway. The main challenges to further improve train provision on Gjøvikbana are in the railway infrastructure. A new crossing track or extension of crossing tracks between Grefsen and Roa is desirable in order to reduce travel time and increase capacity both for freight traffic towards Bergensbana and for passenger traffic towards Gjøvik. There are no plans for the development of such a crossing track in the railway network’s 2006-2009 NTP programme. However, after the pressure from the spokesman in Nittedal and in the light of the capacity challenges for freight traffic on Gjøvikbana between Oslo and Roa, I asked the Railway Agency to carry out a specific assessment of the need for a crossing track at Jensen. According to the Railway Station’s assessment, the current power supply is good enough for the current train supply. The Railway Agency also cooperates through the Railway Forum Gjøvik Railway with the Uppland County Municipality and Municipalities along the track on short-term measures covering the upgrading of stations, hub development and better coordination between bus and train and access parking. The average travel time on the route between Oslo and Gjøvik is today approximately two hours. In order to achieve a travel time reduction of about 30 minutes, an extensive upgrade of the path, including the power supply, is necessary. Concrete action plans will be assessed in the context of the work on the roll-out of the National Transport Plan for the period 2010 to 2019 with the corresponding Railway Agency action programme. The size notification of the national transport plan 2010–2019 will be submitted to the Stortinget at the end of 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1199	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State will grasp this. Some stations on Gjøvikbanen have had an increase of 40 pst. By offering the job, the state has saved a good deal of millions, and in addition we have an increase of 40 pst. in the number of take-offs. So the Gjøvik Railway has been a good thing for the state, which has saved money, and it has been a good thing for the travellers. I am pleased with the one cross-track that the Council of State mentioned here. But are there any requests that there may be crossing tracks elsewhere – I think further north – because it is a fact that trains are very often standing because they are waiting for opposite trains? It's only on shorter distances that you're standing waiting in the stations. There are multiple crossing tracks missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1208	This government has a huge investment on the railways. We'll double the path to infrastructure by 50 p.m., as opposed to Nistad's party, the Progress Party, which wanted to cut item 30, investment, by 850 million. kr. Therefore, those who use the Gjøvik course should be happy that we have a red-green government as bets, and that of course should also look at the possibility of crossing tracks further north. With the Progress Party's cut-off proposal, it is unlikely that the northern part of Gjøvikbana had been given the highest priority. Upgrading the railway would certainly have been a distant and unrealistic dream. I'm happy for Nistad's commitment, despite the budget proposal. I am pleased that we have unbearable policymakers who are breathing us into our necks to ensure that we are constantly getting a better rail supply, which the Government is also working intensively with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1215	Now is not today's Council of State of the Advancement Party! What is the case with the Gjøvik track, which I tried to say in my previous question, is that despite the fact that the offer was much lower than before, we got in addition 40 pst. increase in the number of take-offs. So there was a tremendous saving and improvement in the offer of the Gjøvik Railway. It's a reality. The Council of State has now stopped further tendering. There are huge savings potentials by changing today's offers. Instead of just paying out money to the NSB, you can put out sections on the offer, as you have done with the Gjøvik Railway. Will the Council not think in these paths, as the Progress Party does, in order to release funds, so that we can use these resources on other infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1224	As I said, people who use rail in this country should be happy that we have a red-green government and a council from such a government and not from the Progress Party. The Prom argues that the railway can go without state funds here in the central Austland area. It's completely wrong. We use a large part of the $1.50 billion we buy services from the NSB for, just in the intercity area and in the nearby Oslo area. When it comes to putting off competition, I have always been aware that the Gjøvik course works well. We introduce no rigid routes on many other sections. We increase capacity over the next four-year period by up to 15 pst. in the rushtida in the nearby traffic of Oslo, something that people quite clearly want to notice. There are also many other improvements contained in the agreement that we have now concluded with the NSB, where the government is investing in buying services at the same time as we have a large investment in infrastructure, operation and maintenance in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1237	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The government’s objective is to have full childcare coverage in 2007. In Øyjorden in Bergen there is a municipal plot that is rented out to a parcel garden where the municipality plans to build kindergarten. The county has raised objections to the re-regulation with a background in the value of the land as a green area for the neighbourhood. The paradox is that the plot is rented out to private and therefore inaccessible to the public and its neighbours. Will the Government intervene and respond to individual cases in order to prevent the state from blocking development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1246	This government has full child-care coverage as one of its main objectives. I can assure the representative Hansen that we have the argus eyes on all things where we see that public offices delay the development. The county councillors have been given a clear mandate from the Government to ensure that both state and local authorities cooperate well and smoothly in issues related to kindergarten development, in order to ensure rapid treatment. However, I would like to point out that in some cases there may be cross-cutting considerations between kindergarten development and e.g. environmental considerations. In this specific case from the municipality of Bergen, the county council has given me information that they have been on the track early through meetings with the municipality of Bergen, on 14 December 2006 and on 25 January 2007, where the specific plan proposal has been discussed and the details of it have been reviewed. After these meetings, the county had understood that the administration of the municipality had come to understand how the plan proposal was to be further processed so that they could present a revised proposal that would comply with the objection. What remains is a plan-based approach to clarify its purpose and its provisions. The amended proposal has now been submitted from the municipality of Bergen. The county will consider this proposal quickly. It is important to stress that the county council has not objected to the use of kindergarten on the plot, but to the design of the plot itself. Let me also add that the municipality of Bergen has a good deal left to achieve the national target of full child care coverage during 2007. Next to Oslo, the city now has the longest waiting list in the country. While Trondheim and Tromsø have a kindergarten coverage of between 80 and 90 p.m., Bergen has a kindergarten coverage of 71 p.m. But the City Council in Bergen has now decided to give all matters of expansion priority. I'm very happy about that. As I see it, the County Council, through its guidance role and through good dialogue with the municipality of Bergen, has given me assurances that this matter will be resolved in a sensible way for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1261	I would like to thank you for your answer, and I thank you for following up this important matter for Bergen. The department sent a letter on 5 January to the municipality of Bergen, which erroneously states that a solution has now been found in the case. The solution has not yet been found, and despite the fact that the Prime Minister promised to follow up this particular matter in a meeting with the municipality of Bergen before Christmas. The Parsellhagen in Øyjorden shows how local efforts to achieve the government's goal of full child care coverage in 2007 are actually being hindered by the state. The county states that the parcel garden is a green area that must be protected against degradation. This is a rather special assessment in my view, assessed against the importance of the goal of full kindergarten coverage, when the parsell garden lies a few hundred meters from the entrance to the city mountains and one of the most beautiful tourist areas in the Bergens region. The parking lot is also rented out to private, the area is fenced and locked with a padlock. This is about 200 kindergartens in a city that works hard to achieve full kindergarten coverage. When will we see a final solution to this matter, and will the Government follow this up further?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1272	As my reply shows, we have been in contact with the county council, and the county council has given me assurances that they do not object to the kindergarten purpose of the plot or the plot as such, but the design of the plan. Of course, we have to be in close dialogue with the county council, but the assurance now is that this is all right. It's just a plan-making operation that's still going on. This means that a kindergarten could be built on this plot once the design is planned. My impression is that there is now a good dialogue between the municipality of Bergen and the county on these questions, and that the differences that have occurred in the design of the site have now been resolved. I therefore have the impression that we are facing a solution relatively soon. But I can assure Mr Hansen that we will continue to be in dialogue with the county council. The county office has been clearly informed by us to give priority to these kinds of questions. I am also pleased that the municipality of Bergen has now prioritised the extension of kindergartens as high as they have, in order to get out better than where the municipality is currently in the statistics on kindergarten development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1281	I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the queue for kindergarten places in Bergen was also large three years ago, so this has been a challenge that changing regimes in Bergen have been struggling with. Turning to a more general issue. The evening post today reports that the government has lowered the threshold in order to achieve the goal of full child-care coverage. It has simply changed the way of counting the kindergarten queue. After the government's new and relatively creative way of counting, only those who have applied for space before 1 March this year and who do not get space during the year are included in the statistics on queues for 2007. This means that those applying for a kindergarten after 1 February are not counted as children without a nursery place. The Council of State writes in a letter to the municipalities that the definition of babysitting is not permanent, i.e. that that definition is something that can be adjusted according to political discretion. I understand the need to avoid the Minister of Finance having to keep the promise to go off as a result of a failure to implement optimistic election promises, but does the Minister of Knowledge not see that it becomes quite unreasonable to parents who lack kindergarten, that the Government does not count with them, but rather uses creative accounting methods to sort out the statistics?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1292	This was really a little special follow-up question! I have to answer that, of course. This definition is known for many months. It is communicated from me and the Prime Minister already – I mean to remember in October, or whether it was in November – when we had all the largest municipalities in a meeting where we started the final question to reach the child hail. This is communicated to the sector and to the municipalities many times before. I'm a little surprised that this can be presented as a news. The municipal sector itself thinks this definition is good, simply because it gives a clear goal to work against. Kindergarten coverage is, as the representative Hansen knows, a bit of a moving goal. When we've lowered the price, along with other measures we put in place, it makes many people want kindergarten, and that's good. When the main recording is done, we've done a number of kids that we're going to have space for during this year. So that doesn't mean that we don't have ambitions for the coming years as well, but when we're closer to the goal of full coverage, we want a new permanent definition. It also means that we aim to transfer the jurisdiction to the municipalities, and that parents are given a right to have a kindergarten within a certain time horizon. It will then be the municipality that is obliged to get it. We'll then get a completely different system in the future for how to solve this, than the system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1307	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘I have been informed that Norwegian oil workers who have been exposed to toxic chemicals on Norwegian soils have difficulties in obtaining documentation about the poison to which they have been exposed. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the poison information is provided by oil companies, so that Norwegian law and requirements for the safety of workers are complied with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1316	As I mentioned in the Questionnaire on 31 January, health studies of chemical-exposed oil workers are under way at the national occupational health services. These studies provide an important basis for assessing whether there is a link between occupational exposure and health damage and, therefore, whether the worker is entitled to occupational injury benefits from social security and occupational injury compensation. It is therefore very important that those carrying out the health studies of the former oil workers receive all available exposure information from the companies. As I explained in the spontaneous Question Time on February 7, I had a meeting with ConocoPhillips, the Petroleum Authority, the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work, STAMI, and the occupational medicine Tor B. Aasen from Haukeland University Hospital and Anne Kristin Møller Fell from the Hospital Telemark. During this meeting, the representatives from Haukeland University Hospital and the Hospital Telemark stated that last year they had problems obtaining sufficient information from ConocoPhillips, but that after a meeting held on 8 December 2006 between the company, occupational medicine and the authorities of the Petroleum Authority and the State Institute for the Safety and Health at Work (STAMI), they have a clear impression and confidence that they are getting available information. In addition, ConocoPhillips assured that the company did not withhold information from the occupational health services. Therefore, I do not see any reason to suspect that information is being kept secret from the medical professional community that conducts health investigations on oil workers. At the same time, it is clear that more and better exposure data are needed. There are 35 years of industrial experience in this offshore and information on exposure conditions is complex and difficult to document. There may therefore be a need for information that does not exist at this stage in some patient investigations. So we're working on getting an overview of what we know in this area, and what we lack knowledge about. ConocoPhillips has also reported that they have started a comprehensive retrospective exposure study – they should therefore try to re-establish in the laboratory the exposure situation that was at the time, thereby trying to obtain information that is not currently available. The vocational medical departments have also noted this study that ConocoPhillips is currently working on, saying that it will be an important contribution to such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1330	I would like to thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State takes this very seriously. It is true in industry that in the case of the products to be used, there must be a data sheet. Precautions should also be taken when treating the substances present in the product used. So if there are no data sheets, you can refuse to use the product. I have seen the offshore sector as being very safety conscious and concerned with health, the environment and safety. I am also pleased that the Council of State is following up on this. Following the question in the Questionnaire on 7 February, it was claimed in Dagbladet that the Council of State for mistruths in relation to Stortinget. Tor B. Aasen from the Professional Medical Department said they had trouble obtaining exposure information from ConocoPhillips. Will the Council of State ensure that at least the work now done is followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1339	As I said in my main answer, it is important to know the story and be precise in the description of the relationship between the occupational health departments of Haukeland and the Hospital Telemark, and ConocoPhillips. For various reasons, the occupational health services have not been fully satisfied with ConocoPhillips, and on the very basis of this, a meeting at the end of last year led to the situation being corrected. It was confirmed to me in a meeting I had with Tor B. Aasen from Haukeland University Hospital and Anne Kristin Møller Fell from the Hospital Telemark, where they said they had a clear impression and confidence that they were now getting available information. That doesn't mean we don't have a job to do, but it's not a secret. It goes without saying that we still need knowledge that we just don't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1344	I'm very pleased with the answer. It's the way this has to do with people. Those who are affected by disease and suspect that they may have been affected by chemicals that they have worked with are, of course, concerned about getting the most prepared in this situation. As I understand it, the Council of State will follow this up. I have also received a letter from the Ministry on some deadlines for a work to be completed in the spring of 2008. My last question must be whether the Council of State will then ensure that there is an answer, that it follows that the progress plan for this will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1351	Our starting point is that we put a lot of emphasis on this. It's a very important milestone now, not in the spring of 2008, but in the spring of 2007. It is not certain that it refers to the same thing, but the thing that at least I place great emphasis on is that we now have a cooperation between the Petroleum Control Agency, the employees' organisations and the employers' organisations, where we are doing research and monitoring of what we know, what we lack knowledge about, and how we may be able to gain knowledge about what we lack knowledge about. It is a very important milestone in relation to the further work on this matter. I can assure the asker that it is clear that we are concerned about people who have been exposed to offshore chemical exposure – and onshore, for that matter. In an industrial historical perspective, there are many on land too. We're also busy with these, and we're going to try to use our resources to get more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1362	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: «The Consumer Purchases Act provides consumers with a high level of protection and a higher level of purchasing rights. Disabled persons who need different types of assistance may receive support from the public interest. The aid is not granted as a financial contribution for own purchases but as a loan from the aid centres. However, such a scheme deprives the disabled person’s consumer rights which are important when the device is defective and missing. Will the Council of State ensure that beneficiaries of facilities have equivalent consumer rights?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1371	It is true that the Consumer Purchases Act does not regulate the granting of facilities to disabled persons. However, it does not, in my opinion, mean that a disabled person receiving social assistance for an aid has less legal protection than consumers in a purchase relationship when the aid is defective or missing. A means of remedying, replacing or compensating for a malfunction is initially a means of remedying, replacing or compensating for a disability. An aid may be a special-layer or special-purpose device for disabled persons. Reading, speaking and hearing aids may be provided in the case of sensory defects and tools, support devices, wheelchairs, etc. in the case of movement difficulties. In addition, in exceptional cases, social benefits may also be granted to other equipment if this is particularly suitable to remedy, replace or compensate for a particular malfunction. A decision granting aid is an administrative decision which can, of course, be appealed against in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Civil Protection. As a general rule, facilities are provided as loans from the assistance centre. When an aid is lent, it is to be regarded as the property of the people's security. This means that if it breaks down, the assistance centre will have a responsibility to repair the aid so that the beneficiary does not become a victim of the damage. If it is not possible to repair the aid, the assistance centre will provide the user with a new tool. If the aid does not function as intended, the user will be able to benefit from a new means of remedying the disability. It is therefore important that users who may experience any of these should contact the assistance centre in question. Emergency centres are responsible for guiding the disabled person in such a way that he can choose the right means and learn how to use and maintain it. In other words, the current one shall experience user involvement at all levels of the intermediary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1386	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As consumers, we can seek help from the Consumer Council and the Consumer Visa Committee in order to resolve a purchase claim. This is effective and inexpensive for consumers, who often have to be regarded as the weak party in a case relating to defects or defects in a product. When disabled people experience that the aid does not correspond to expectations and needs, they can contact the assistance centre and ask for correction, as the Council of State said. However, in the event of disagreement as to the need for a repair or a change of goods, the user does not have the opportunity to seek help through the dispute resolution system of the consumer authorities. Will the Council of State establish dispute resolution mechanisms with a mandate to assist disabled people when they experience a lack of follow-up and response in the assistance centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1397	The approach to the questioner’s problem seems artificial to me, as if there are differences of interest between the assistance centre and the user. It's very difficult to have it as a starting point, because the help center has only one interest, namely satisfied users. Finding and adapting the appropriate tool is the purpose of the assistance centre. Therefore, the assistance centre will be the user’s heavy, clear, clear representative if the product delivered does not keep the seller’s measurements. I would think that a disabled person would be much stronger than a seller if he could have the help center that buys in the back than each disabled person would have done if one had to act ‘slice and divided’ towards this type of major operator. So I mean, the system we have seems to be very sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1402	I thank you again for the answer. As a physiotherapist, I have been among those who have been involved and adapted. But I have to say that now as a wholesaler I have received many complaints on this issue. That's why I'm taking it up. Should, for example: Participation of disabled persons in the same way as others in work and leisure is essential if they are to have facilities adapted to the individual. Then it is that tendering rules and bidding rounds for the assistance centre may result in a limited selection of facilities and that the specific needs of some disabled persons cannot be met. Will the Council of State allow disabled people who are not adequately provided with assistance to themselves to obtain appropriate assistance at the expense of the public, thereby promoting equality and freedom of choice for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1413	I listen to what the questioner says, and I know that she has a lot of knowledge of what she's doing right now. What I can say is that we in the department have discussions about the need for a review of the entire resource area – in the sense that neither do we believe that this system works perfectly today. So I think I'll have to answer more generally. It is impossible for me from Stortinget's pulpit in the Questionnaire to go in for as big changes as the demander asks. But that we need a review of the tool area, that's quite clear, and then I realize that the topic the questioner is concerned with. In some way, the Storting must also be involved in such a review. I believe that it is a very important principleal turn to take, if one should now come into the situation that the state should find solutions in terms of responsibility for aids, through cash grants instead of through a lending scheme. We have to discuss that very thoroughly before we possibly go into it, but I'm taking the tapes, and I'm saying we're going to come back with a more comprehensive review of the tool area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1424	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In the daily newspaper of 17 January of this year, there is an article on the conditions of the Ila prison, detention centre and custody centre. It is shown, among others: to a pressure of capacity exerting safety. Although some increase to Ila has been proposed in this year’s budget, it is still far too small. Employees are very concerned about what might happen and are calling for immediate action. What will the Council of State do about Ila's situation, and can the Council of State guarantee the security of all employees and prisoners and thus assume political responsibility?'
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1433	All activity involves risk. This is also the case with the implementation of penalties and detention. However, criminal justice shall, as far as possible, protect the appointed and detained persons from violence and threats. I, as the Council of State, will always have the overall responsibility for this. Ila prisons, detention centres and detention centres have very demanding clientele. The prison population is increasingly composed of people with severe personality disorders, poor functioning and low social skills. The employees have, during the period we have had the depositary, managed this in a good way and without serious incidents. This government has revised the national budget for 2006 as follows: St. pp. No 66 for 2005-2006, additional allocation of 9 million. kr for, among others strengthening the security of Ila. In 2006, Ila prisons, in addition to strengthening physical security, carried out a large number of exercises and amended internal policies and procedures to continuously control the security challenges. In addition, all new staff in the detention centres shall undergo six weeks’ training. I have been informed that the central administration of criminal law took part in a meeting at the Ila prison on Monday 29 January. The prison leader claims that the high level of capacity utilisation increases the risk. In 2006, the capacity utilisation of Ila prisons was about 99 pst. It's loud. The number of custodial convictions has increased in recent years. This combined with pay queues is the reason for the very high capacity utilisation in Ila and other prisons. An increase in the number of detainees transferred to other prisons will be organised as part of the release process. The Department of Criminal Welfare is now investigating the establishment of ordinary detention centres in other prisons, which will also remedy the situation in Ila. Long-term predictions for the use of the depositary depend on judicial practices — and there is a tearing trend — among others. of cases currently pending before the Court of Justice. In the longer term, once the housing queue has been removed, the aim is to reduce the cover to 90 pst. The problem with pay queues was one of the first things I got when I took over as Minister of Justice, and we now see that the measures that have been put in place are working. The government presented a comprehensive plan to close the settlement queue in May 2006. At that time, there were 2,700 unconditional judges in the queue. I am familiar with – and I have informed Stortinget about it – that there are other types of cows too, but so far the queue is reduced by about 400 judges. This is a good starting point for further work to get rid of the queue. I have ordered the central government of criminal services to follow closely the situation of the Ila prison, detention and detention centre, so far as it is possible, to safeguard the lives and health of prisoners and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1452	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At least he's right that there's more than one queue you're struggling with in the justice sector. I think we're all agreed on that. However, I believe that we have a special responsibility in relation to the detention and detention regime. Both the Council of State and the undersigned have visited the unit at Ila, and they undoubtedly have tough conditions to work under there. Employees claim that at least there should be many more at work than they are today, and that there are very few at work compared to the many in that unit. They feel that it is at the expense of the quality of the job they do, and they also feel an increasing uncertainty about it. At the same time, when the Council of State says that it wants to introduce the same regime into other prisons, it is also necessary to disseminate the skills and lessons learned from them. How does the Council of State expect you to do that, while there's a high level of coating in Ila as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1461	First of all, I want to pay great tribute to the employees of Ila prison, which I must say during the time that the detention centre has been, but also in advance of it, has broken a lot of new land in such an important area as this. There are, of course, processes of change that – I was saying – have not given us sufficient clarity on how to tackle, and there are security challenges, which can be overwhelming when we know what is the basis of the detention sentence. The arrangements you have on Ila, and the efforts made by the employees at Ila – I have been there on several occasions – are impressive. But at the same time, I think it is important, as the questioner is also concerned, to get the competence that has now been established in Ila, into other prisons where it could be relevant for the detention judge to sit. It will also be right in the light of the fact that we now have the opportunity to get custody sentences with a somewhat different background than that of the traditional detention centre. We have multiple challenges in many ways, but I hope that Ila will be one of the most important partners when we are just going to strengthen the competence in this area in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1472	Once again, I thank you for the answer, which I think is positive. Not least the last state council was concerned that we might get a new type of criminal convicted for custody, it's very important. I guess that also means that a unit à la Ila becomes more vulnerable. Getting even more complexity into it, in turn, may lead to greater vulnerability and greater uncertainty for all those involved in such a unit. Governments were also involved in their own action plan to remove the pay queue. It opens for – I think it was sketched there – a 23 storage sites. I also know that there are other institutions in this country that have offered their services to the Ministry of Justice in this way and want to help solve these problems. Since we're getting a new regime, maybe against Ila and that kind of thing -- we're going to call it criminal enforcement -- I'm going to ask, does the Council of State realize that other institutions can also be used here, provided that the security and professional is properly and properly maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1479	My answer to that is yes. It is not that the detention centre is absolute in the sense that you have to be one place and that you have to be there for a fixed time. It's just about making arrangements so that you can phase back into society. It is quite obvious that we will need all the good forces in that work. There is also work going on – I know the asker knows well from his own territory – so here we have great opportunities to draw on further competences. Then I want to say that if you get a new group of people convicted of detention, it can be a significant challenge in relation to, among other things. the safety aspect, but at the same time it may contribute to the fact that the change work to be done is not as severe as it has traditionally been. So in some areas, a new group could also make it easier in relation to the storage facility, and not just more complicated. We're going to deal with this as we do with everything in criminal custody. There are individuals we're dealing with, and then there may be very different challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1492	I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Several studies indicate that there is a good deal of breach of the spectres in large cities at night, such as the gift of minors and the overrun of obviously intoxicated persons. The number of withdrawals of appropriations is limited in relation to what the surveys show. This may include, inter alia: because it is very time- and resource-consuming to have such reactions carried out. Will the Government consider introducing legal remedies to enable police and inspectors to perform immediate on-the-spot reactions in the event of a manifest breach of the rules?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1501	Let me first say that every time I get questions and interpellations about these issues in the Storting and representatives dare to address this important topic, I want to pay tribute to it, because I believe it is the core of what is needed to create safer cities and towns. I share the concern expressed by the representative of Bohemian Affairs. This is not just a matter of well-documented links between alcohol use and certain types of crime that are often concerned, including: violence, assault, atrocities, disorder and a general insecurity felt by many in city centres. It is true that as much damage is done to people in the context of alcohol use, not least acute injuries and other health damage, and this is where damage is done to others, so-called third-party damage, is as relevant as that suffered by those who drink. This is why we have age limits and bans on so-called overlap. We must pay attention to ensuring that these provisions are effectively enforced. It is important to highlight the practical implementation of the Scandal policy. We have often had clear demands, but had problems implementing them. So -- I was saying -- the vision is easy to get, easy to lose is just half a truth. It is easy to get, but difficult to lose in terms of appropriations. At the same time, we must take care of the local maritime administration. I am in favour of the municipalities being responsible for the funding policy, as provided by the Alcohol Act. However, it is also necessary for municipalities to be aware of their responsibilities and to use the means actually contained in the alcohol law to prevent both illegal donation and crime which might otherwise result from inadequately controlled alcohol abuse. We're going to have an effective checkpoint. And the police are to carry out their security-creating efforts in the centre lines and fight crime. This is an interaction. Already today, the alcohol law has the authority to respond to the demand of the respondent, which allows the police to shut down a place of sale or entry for up to two days when necessary to prevent disturbance of public order, to ensure the safety of individuals or the general public or to avert or stop crime, as stated. alcohol law § 1-8a, second paragraph. The assumption is that a serious situation cannot be remedied without the location being closed or that the police cannot wait for a possible withdrawal decision. The termination may be effected only in the case of offences relating to the sale or gift operation itself. Sick closures following this provision cannot take longer than is necessary, up to a maximum of two days, in order to restore a legitimate situation, it is likely that the provision will be able to meet the need for immediate action. Seeing that an extended possibility of immediate action can have immediate effect, I believe that there is a need to be somewhat reluctant to introduce such measures, as the representative suggests. Firstly, I would like to point out that the legislation already provides many opportunities for both the municipality, the police and other authorities to carry out effective preventive work and to exercise effective control. We have to work to ensure that these possibilities are actually used, as much as we are considering new provisions. Secondly, there is reason to point out that the issue of authorizations to close down or impose fines is also accompanied by a legal security aspect. In my opinion, it will be necessary for measures to be implemented in the context of infringements of the provisions of the Constitution to be properly implemented, where the parties have, of course, the opportunity to be heard. However, on Thursday, 8 February of this year, I would like to reiterate, with reference to the interpellation of Mr Syversen's representative in the Grand Duchy of Great Britain on nightlife and the ensuing debate, that the Government will also consider further increased access to any immediate measures that may help to reduce alcohol-related problems and insecurity, among others. in the city centre lines. This will be natural to look at together with, among other things. the possibilities now available to the police in setting up police councils. It will provide better opportunities for local politicians and police to discuss common problems with regard to local alcohol policy and the implementation of the provisions on alcohol abuse, with a view to preventing both breaches of the rules and other unacceptable consequences of alcohol use. It's my hope that just such police councils may be able to get the activity up, so that we use the homes that are in the law already, instead of now making many new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1518	It is true, as the Minister of Justice said, that there was an inter-pelling debate here on 8 February on violence and alcohol in urban centres. In the same debate, I also raised this issue, and several of the parties were positive about looking at new forms of immediate reactions. I remember, among other things: that a representative of the Progress Party and also the representative of the Left mentioned it. It's true, as the Minister of Justice says, there's a warrant in section 1-8 a, which I've also seen. However, it is more about comprehensive safety problems than cases of overdrinking and gifting of obviously intoxicated people. Now the Minister of Justice opened up to take a closer look at this, so I would like to ask if the Government would be willing to consider the question of new forms of immediate reactions in the context of the work on the Capital Message, which the Government is going to present in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1527	I think it's so important now that we get to use the funds we already have, and that the efforts should be linked to it. I think that we're sometimes a little too fast at the lab in relation to wanting new laws, and then we don't always think about whether the laws are actually being used. The challenge in terms of the search policy is to bring the police authorities into closer dialogue with the local authorities, so that you can see the writing on the wall. And we have the home to be able to respond. I believe that overdrafting minors is a very serious phenomenon, which none of us want. This can be very risky in relation to further drug use, which we must stop at any cost. In my opinion, it must provide a good basis for applying more lasting sanctions, but also for putting immediate reactions into practice. I'm not going to be reprehensible to include recordings in the work that, among other things, the Minister of Health and the undersigned will do in this field, just to look at the framework conditions for this. But once again, I would like to stress that expectations now need to be met locally, so that you can use the possibilities you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1534	It is very positive if the Minister of Justice would also stress to the police that more use must be made of the current funds. Now I don't have the full overview here, but I can't remember that the home of Sections 1-8(a) has been used in recent times in relation to shutting down places a few days in Oslo – in this case, I think it would have been a great deal of media. It is possible that this has happened some time, but I cannot remember it. So it's very important that it gets inculcated that there's such a permit, and if it can be used when giving to minors, it'll be very positive. For years, there has been better control of the tipping points that have been mentioned when you have opened for longer and longer periods of time and more and more tips, and little has happened. I can mention that, for example. in Trondheim in five years, there have been three withdrawals due to donations to minors, and studies carried out here by the State Institute for Drug Research may indicate that there are many more cases of this or that there is a relatively widespread phenomenon. So it's positive that the Minister of Justice wants to intensify this against the police, but I hope again that you also look at new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1539	Here we agree. There is an important debate about whether we are going to make new legal provisions or whether we are going to get the police and local politicians to use the funds that are. It's a big challenge. We know that there is a very large overlap between minors. We also know that eight out of ten of those under the age of 18 who are trying to buy alcoholic beverages from the grocery stores are being purchased, and there are also opportunities to intervene. So we have a big task here, and one of the features of the Ministry of Justice is to establish these police councils. But I'm going to take it with me, because I think it's very important that we now get to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1548	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Young people experimenting with GHB, or liquid ecstasy, has recently resulted in more deaths and almost deaths. GHB is prohibited in Norway and it will be important to include an international ban on the substance of fatal concern. Will the Council of State contribute to the Government taking the necessary initiatives in international judicial and health cooperation to prevent the use of GHB from developing into an even greater tragedy, with even more lost lives as a result?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1557	There should be no doubt that the Government also takes a very serious view of the use of gammahydroxydbutyric acid – GHB – and the serious consequences of the use. In that way, I'm glad the questioner is addressing this. This is undoubtedly a serious game of life. Therefore, contact with healthcare should not be hesitated if there is a suspicion of harm in use. GHB has drug symptoms that are very similar to drinking alcohol, ethanol, and cannot be confused with ‘ecstasy’. In fact, Norway has been a leading country in establishing control mechanisms and prohibitions on the use and possession of both raw materials for the production of GHB and the substance GHB itself. It is not only this government to honor, but also the previous government. Following a 1999 consultation round, GHB was included in the drug list in this country on 12 July 2000. The control authorities have the power to seize the raw material as well. In the Nordic countries and in many European countries, the commodity is subject to much the same restrictions and controls as in our country. On 20 March 2001, the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs decided to include GHB under the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances, Schedule IV. From that time on, the drug was also classified as a drug in a global context. Since 2001, Norway has been a full member of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) since 2001. The Centre shall collect, analyse and disseminate knowledge and develop comparable indicators for the development of abuse in individual countries. Through its membership, Norway shares information on, inter alia: GHB with the other participating countries. Norway is also actively involved in the work of the United Nations in the field of drug crime. These are important arenas where we can bring along the signals that the queryer is now giving, in order to bring this up. From the Police Directorate, I have been informed that in the case of fatal outcomes in the case of abuse of GHB, this is probably one or two cases in 10 years. To put it in relief, we probably have between 10,000 and 20,000 more alcohol deaths in Norway than GHB deaths. It appears that in all cases where GHB leads to loss of consciousness or death, polydrug use, in particular combined with alcohol, explains the complications that arise. Not only do we need zero tolerance against GHB here, but we need an increased effort to reduce alcohol use as well. However, the issues that have been resolved in the media in the last few days have not been fully investigated. Neither seizures nor autopsy declarations are available from any of the sites. It is therefore too early to say anything about these deaths, whether GHB is clearly inside the picture. Combating drug crime is an important field of action for the police and for the government. The action plan on drugs 2003–08 is designed to achieve a coordinated and effective effort to achieve a policy objective of reducing drug crime. The focus of the police shall be both on demand-reduction measures and on measures to reduce the availability of the various drugs. However, GHB is produced from fairly common ingredients that are legal in Norway and thus does not have the same smuggling problem as for other types of drugs that are illegally introduced into the country. This limits the scope for reducing access to GHB here in Norway. In other words, it might have a stronger national aspect than we know. It also makes it relatively difficult for the police and other control bodies to detect production and abuse before it happens. In the case of GHB that has been mentioned in the media over the past few weeks, considerable emphasis has been placed on the dissemination of risk factors associated with the use of this drug by the police and the prosecution authority. Parents, schools, health authorities and the seas of young people must also be aware and informed of the major adverse effects that use may have on them. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health thus disseminates information as part of its overall responsibility. Therefore, we need to consider alternative strategies to work locally through the environments of young people and bodies that have direct contact with young people, such as young people. outreach, police — and others in the recreational sector who are in contact with children and young people. Finally, I mentioned the extent of alcohol damage and alcohol deaths. We're facing a significant drug problem in the country. The response to GHB may seem small and minimal, but it's all the more important, because we don't actually need any more dangerous drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1576	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. But what might be special about GHB is – as the Council of State itself had in mind – that it is made of apparently common products that you can get bought and get hold of. I think in many ways there might be a lot of parents who are a little naive, and who actually overlook that their young people are doing and experimenting with this. So it's also going under the name party-baptism, and it's experimenting with. There is also a risk of infection here – that this should be able to develop into something more if we are not clear and cash. We can say that there are bans in Norway. Then Norway is kind of an island in the big sea, and then it's a little bit of raw materials in the country, etc., from around us. I would like to challenge the Council of States here: Norway has excelled internationally by driving a rather tough race in terms of preventing tobacco damage, among other things. when Gro Harlem Brundtland was Secretary General of the World Health Organisation. Can it be seen that Norway should be able to run a tougher race in relation to GHB and drugs in general in the international arena?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1587	Yes, I think we should bring this element with us in the international forums – it's not new, but it's an element that can look like getting its tops sometimes – primarily to create effective resistance to it. But this is also a very strong national challenge. We know that a lot of GHB production is on its own national legs. As the queryer was in, it can be produced from raw materials we have available here in the country. But it's important to address it internationally. At the same time, I want to say that most of the younger people who try this type of drug do it in alcohol. So if the Right now is serious about really wanting to reverse the use of drugs among young people, I hope that the Right does not continue its line in terms of making alcohol more available, donating even longer at night and creating more sources where, among other things, children and young people can easily purchase alcoholic beverages, which in turn create a greater risk of trying unknown drugs that cause serious harm.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1594	I think it is very important that we now manage to deal with both of the challenges we face — both alcohol consumption that is important for us to have control measures around, so that donations and sales can be done in a proper way, and that minors do not get access to alcohol. But in the same way, we now have a special challenge in experimenting with some new drugs. Regrettably, what was previously a big - city phenomenon is no longer a big - city phenomenon. You can go to small places in my home country, Troms, and meet the same ones to some serious drug problems. So I am also concerned about whether the Council of State can say something about prevention work in the police department in the small areas – that you can meet this ‘up front’, and that you can contribute to more information in the youth settings, in people working with youth. But parents are also becoming an important target group here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1601	I'd like to take that challenge. These are things we work with, including: in connection with the establishment of police councils, where the police should have the opportunity to inform both politicians and others about what is harmful. But if you really want to think about prevention, we know – as I said before – that those young people who drink a lot of alcohol have easier to try illegal drugs. It is clear that it is important to reduce alcohol consumption, especially among the younger. That's where I think the main challenge lies. So if the Right succeeds in its zero tolerance line, you have to have a much more active alcohol policy to get to it. It's like, even in Troms, that 60-70 pst. of the violent crime taking place, not in GHBrus, but in alcohol intoxication. We know that the extent of deaths and some other things is massively larger. So I hope that the representative will stay a little bit at it, and maybe also ask questions about it on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1615	I allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘patients who are sent from permanent staff to psychologists or psychiatrists do not reach the level of public support. The psychologists select to some extent the patients they want. Older people or people with personality disorders and people with a migrant background end up at the back. When the NRK tested the availability of 55 psychologists in Oslo at the end of January 2007, only four of them took the phone. What will the Council of State do to ensure the treatment provision of this vulnerable group of patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1624	First of all, I would like to stress that there are several treatment stages in the specialist healthcare service that are responsible for the provision of treatment to people with mental illness or illness. The specialist health service provision can mainly be divided into three: Hospital wards District Psychiatric Centres Private Practitioners with Operational Agreement with Regional Health Enterprises The latter is often referred to as private contract specialists, and that is the group of professionals covered by Giltun's question, as I understand it. It is an objective that the district psychiatric centres should be able to provide specialist health services to mentally ill people, and preferably in cooperation with the private contract specialists. Hospital units shall be specialised departments offering in the most serious conditions. Surveys of contract specialists’ practices show that cooperation and division of labour between the private contract specialists and the public service have gone a long way — both in patient groups and in severity. At the same time, the surveys show that cooperation and worksharing work very differently, and that availability and priority practices among contract specialists are not always good enough. In the national health plan, the Government announced that it would start work to change the framework conditions in order to improve the integration of contract specialists into regional health companies’ responsibilities, including ensuring proper prioritisation in line with the patient rights law – i.e. those who need it the most – and the priority regulation, and that we also facilitate the appropriate division of tasks between contract specialists and health businesses. We are currently in the process of investigating and developing the basis for better integration of the private contract specialists. The government will come back to this matter during this year. I stress that this applies to all private specialists with an operating agreement with regional health companies, including both psychologists and psychiatrists. Already during this year, there will also be a new approach to the registration of activities by the private contract specialists under the auspices of the Social and Health Directorate. It will give regional health establishments far better opportunity to see the full and broad scope of the existing treatment offer than is the case today. Let me also highlight the following: It is an independent goal to ensure better accessibility for the private psychiatrists and psychologists than is the case today. Patients should not be at risk of having to call around and be met by telephone answering machines, nor should they have to write personal ‘letters of application’ to the individual handler. I would therefore like to consider several options to address this problem in a good way. A form of a joint admission centre to this part of the specialist health service is one of the things that I now assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1653	I thank you for your answer. This is a problem that has been discussed very many times in the last two and a half years that I have been with here. This with access to help when needed, including access to psychological assistance, is very important to stop the development of depression and disease in those who are mentally ill. I don't have so much faith in what the Council of State is about to do. It seems quite passive when you see how things are. The recent issues raised in the press are well described in the 2003 Health East Agreement Specialists Project. It says about poor accessibility, and it says about all the things that have emerged and that you will now have to tackle – again. This should have been taken care of already four years ago. So I can't see anything concrete considering that there's going to be a quick improvement. It's quite dramatic when only four out of 55 psychologists answer the phone, and we know that very many mentally ill people don't get help. Isn't there something concrete you can come up with a little faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1662	Let me first stress that anyone who needs help will get it when they need it. I think it is a little strange that the representative Giltun does not think it is concrete in what I have now said, and otherwise also did. This is a problem that has been known for a long time. But this government has – unlike previous governments that the Progress Party has had a great opportunity to influence – done something about the matter. We have during the year we have now been responsible, gripped with this in the way that we are now making a new set of activity registrations for the contract specialists we are talking about here. We have started a work to include them more in the offer that the general public is going to make. And I say here today, as I explained in my main answer, that we also assess e.g. an intake centre to prevent patients from driving and calling around and being met by a telephone answering machine, which I also think is completely unsatisfactory. In other words, I believe that this government has grasped this, we are doing something concrete. I look very seriously at this situation, and I want to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1671	I note that there are some measures to be implemented quite quickly, so that they will help those who are waiting today. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, we have been very concerned about this situation for many years. I can go back to 1997 and quote John Alvheim, as the 17th of June says in Stortinget: ‘It is, however, a great paradox for me that while there is a significant shortage of psychiatrists and psychologists, the Government, with the support of a majority in the Grand Duchy, has been able to take advantage of the so-called contract-less psychiatrists and psychologists’ reimbursement from Social Security, which is clearly in the long term, and in the short term, will make the lack of staff in the psychiatric healthcare even worse than is the case today and will have serious consequences for future and current patients.’ I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State consider re-establishing the system of non-contractual psychiatrists and psychologists to receive reimbursement from popular security, so that patients can choose who they want to go to, and so that the need for more people in these professions can be regulated in line with what patients need?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1683	What I'm concerned about is that we can get to a system that works in practice, where those who need help, whether it's big, serious or less serious things that can evolve to be far more serious if you don't get help, get it help. It's on the basis that we've already started work on how to include the contract specialists, i.e. the private practitioners, in the public sector. The whole point of that is to get a better system, so patients get help when they need it. In what form we want to do it, and in what way, and questions related to reimbursement, etc., are of the things we're going to go through right now, and then we're going to conclude when that job is done. Meanwhile, we're doing what we can to make sure that those people who need help get there. And I think it is totally unacceptable that people are met by telephone answering machines to the extent that this is pointed out. It's a challenge for all of them to work in the sector, whether it's in the private sector or in the public sector, because that's not the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1694	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Fersh figures show that in 2005 Health Bergen had 158 annual works linked to research, the Rikshospital had 442 annual works and the University Hospital Nord-Norway had 136 annual works linked to the research work. To what extent will they notify the cut-offs in health businesses in 2007 affect research, and what will this in the long term mean for the treatment provision of patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1703	Patient-oriented research in health enterprises is important in order to ensure high quality of current and future treatment provision. Results from long-term research contribute to new and improved diagnostics and treatment, and in particular improved patient safety. Thus, research provides the basis for ensuring that the treatment given is safe for patients, that it is up-to-date, that we constantly use the best available knowledge, that it provides health benefits, and that it is also cost-effective. In addition, health care research contributes to increasing the competence of health professionals. It's also important. Today, Norway has lower research efforts in medicine and health than in the other Nordic countries when comparing the number of scientific publications, resource efforts and doctoral degrees. This government wants to strengthen health research in line with the leadership given in the Research Communication. In the Soria Moria Declaration, therefore, enhanced healthcare research is also an important objective. A specific earmarked grant for research in health enterprises is established. Part of that grant is based on reference to research results. I have also asked regional health companies to give priority to patient-oriented clinical research. I am pleased that all regional health companies prioritise research and have distributed funds in addition to the national earmarked funds. National measurement results show a positive trend and a positive trend with increased research activity in health enterprises following the hospital reform. From 2004 to 2005, the number of published scientific articles from regional health establishments increased by a total of 10 pst, and in 2005 130 doctoral degrees from regional health establishments were reported. It's a joyous development that we want to continue. Regional health enterprises may also apply for funds through the Programme Plans of the Norwegian Research Council. In 2007, 174 million will be allocated. kr for research through the Norwegian Research Council. Last year, the amount of resources spent by health businesses on research was measured. This national study showed that a total of 1,281 annual works were used in 2005 for research in health enterprises, or approximately. 1.4 pst. by the total number of annual works. We also found that the distribution varied between health businesses. There is important governance information to ensure that national targets are followed up. The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, points to the budgetary challenges facing regional health businesses in 2007 and the possible consequences for health business research. As regards the allocation of resources to different tasks within health enterprises, this is done within the governance framework set. Research is one of the four main tasks of health enterprises. The mission document for the current year suggests that there is a need for continued strengthening of research in health enterprises. It is also assumed that the earmarked research grant will be used for this purpose. I trust that research in health companies will be carried out in a good way, in line with the guidance signals I have given for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1716	I thank you for your answer. We have, as the Council of State said, received many reports — and seen in the media that health businesses have now gone out and told us — about severe cuts that they must make in order to get the budgets to go around and to keep the treatment capacity they have. The figures are dramatic for several health businesses. The situation is that health care establishments have to actually choose where the cuts will come from, for example. whether to cut in the treatment of patients, or e.g. in research. I therefore think it is important that the government give signals in which areas it is actually impractical to cut. Then I wonder if the Council of State believes that research is one of the areas in which it would be impractical to cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1723	First to the question of cutting or not. I expect the representative Eriksen to have found out that the government has proposed to grant 800 million. kr more to health establishments in the current year. There's a matter for Stortinget about it in a short time, and I expect the Christian People's Party to back up on that supplementary allocation, as I now hear the question. Otherwise, research is one of four main tasks. Health undertakings have been informed that priority should be given to this. I also note that all regional health companies allocate funds in addition to what we have given in government earmarked grants. There are variations between health companies in how much, but I find that everyone gives more than what we have earmarked. And it's positive, because I mean, based on the knowledge I have about health companies, that they themselves are very concerned about the importance of research. That's why I'm pretty sure there's going to be more investment in research in the future, and not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1730	The representative has been promised 800 million. kr, but has also brought with it that, among other things. Health Mid-Norway has already used up more than what's coming. So the challenges are still big even with the allocation that comes. The Council of State said in its first answer that we are worse off in terms of health research than some countries we can compare with. I want to challenge the Council of State on one specific matter: the Cancer Association in Norway has taken the brunt of the research on cancer. After the conversion as a result of the automatic matter, which both the government parties and the Christian People's Party have supported and appear to be good, the revenues for, among other things, will be: The cancer association and what they can apply to research around cancer, decrease dramatically. I want to challenge the Council of State on what she can do to cover the gap our society will have in the very important field of research that cancer is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1737	For example, when the representative Eriksen refers to: The challenges in Health Middle Norway, there's no doubt that that's right. But I feel the need to stress that this government has had a great job cleaning up after the Bondevik administration, which had not adequately addressed the challenges, especially in Health Mid-Norway, when we now see what has been revealed there during the last year we have been responsible. So it's a very demanding situation, because it hasn't gotten caught up in this at an earlier time. With regard to the specific issue of cancer research, I agree with the questioner that this is a very important area. There is no doubt that both the Cancer Association and other associations are facing challenges in the decision we have made on the removal of slot machines, but as we believe is right – and I believe that the Christian People's Party too agrees. We have created our own national strategy for how to prevent, treat and research more on cancer in the future, because unfortunately it seems to be increasing. I can only assure you that we have a good dialogue with the Cancer Association on this point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1750	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘In connection with the merger of Health South and Health East, the Council of State has said that it is assessed to move Flekkefjord Hospital to Health Stavanger. Southern hospitals have undergone major changes in recent years with the closure of two local hospitals and other different structural changes. The population base for maintaining today's functions at Sørlande Hospital may be too small, Flekkefjord Hospitals would be admitted under Health West, as well as have other negative consequences for the population. What is the Council of State's view on this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1759	As you know, the government has decided to merge Health South and Health East. By 1 July of this year at the latest, a new regional health enterprise – called Health South-East RHF – will be established to replace the current two regional health enterprises. We are doing this with the background of a clear need for better coordination of specialist health services in the capital area, especially and between today's Health South and Health East. We do it after a very thorough assessment of different alternative models. I am convinced that improving resource use and cooperation in the capital area will be a good thing for the entire specialist health service in the two regions and also have positive ring-fences for patient provision throughout the country. In the further project work, it will be assessed – and I stress – whether it would be appropriate to make some border adjustments in the border zones between Health South and Health East and the health regions to which it relates. In practice, it will involve the boundaries between Health East and Health Middle Norway in the northern part of the region and between Health South and Health West South in the country. But I want to stress as strongly as I can: no conclusions have been drawn, so there is no need to panic in this matter. The investigation work has not started. Therefore, it has not been concluded that changes will be made in the future as a result of these assessments, either for Flekkefjord hospitals or for other hospitals. We have knowledge, as the questioner also knows, that there has been a long time to get good and cross-cutting offers – across previous county borders. A good example is Sørlanden Hospital and the development of hospital services across the Agder counties. I believe that such experience is useful in the investigation we are about to undertake.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1770	I thank you for your answer. Now it is the case that neither the patient organisations, the added members nor the municipalities of the Lista region want a transfer. The hospital in Flekkefjord is, as the council knows for sure, a modern hospital with a high professional level and also a very important piece in the hospital structure of just the South. Now, unfortunately, there is uncertainty and concern in the population about the future of the hospital. Flekkefjord Hospital, which operates with profits, is probably afraid – with the financial framework of the companies that are scarce and, as we know, to be cut further – that the hospital can become a balancing item in the budget, especially because it is located on the edge of both of these health businesses. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1779	Let me first refute that it should be cut further. That's the opposite of it, by the government proposing to grant 800 million. kr more to the hospitals for the current year – it will arrive in Stortinget in a short time. So there's more money for hospitals. But to the specific matter: I take with me what the representative Schmidt says. We are familiar with the work that has been going on for a long time, and how important Flekkefjord Hospital is. There shall be no uncertainty about that. I know that there have been major changes at the hospital, and in that part of the country, so all of these things we take with us, of course, when we now evaluate this. I don't think one here will draw any hasty conclusions, because I haven't concluded that there will be any changes here. But in all processes, it's important to have thought through these things when raising the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1788	Now you've been in the business of most of the questions to the Council of State. It has been about resources for equipment, for research, for better quality – there has been no mention of shorter queues, but it is implicit in it. Should we not now give companies the opportunity to start again – and delete parts or all of the hospital debt?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1793	I feel that this is a little outside of the main question, but nevertheless I would like to answer it. We've given a historically high grant from the government to the hospitals. We are further strengthening it through the draft budget we now have for the current year. We are taking organisational action, which we believe is very important and crucial for further development. So I mean we do a lot. To the question of debt, I think it's fundamentally unfair if we were just to say that we're cancelling the debt for everyone, because there's no doubt that some regions are ruling better than others. Those who have less debt – and who have managed better – will, of course, feel unfair if we say that we are now cancelling all debt. But it is clear that we are aware of the situation. We're going to follow it very closely. That is also why we have granted an additional grant for the current year, in order to ensure a proper patient offer throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1806	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to a statement in Sunnmørsposten on 8 February of this year, the Chairman of the Board of Health Mid-Norway RHF states that all the 275 additional millions notified to regional health establishments will only be used to reduce the deficit at St. Olav’s Hospital. The director of the board says in the article that this is the clear message from the Council of State. This look-up has caused a great deal of upsurge in the other health care businesses, which are also struggling with savings and poor finances. Can the Council confirm that the money should only go to St. Olav's Hospital?»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1815	One of the reasons why the Government in a short time promotes its own landfill proposal with proposals for additional appropriations for regional health enterprises is among others. that the Boards of Health Nord RHF and Health Mid-Norway RHF have reported to me as their owner that they will not be able to meet the performance requirements set by the Stortinget for 2007 without substantially failing patient treatment. As the representative of Nesvik is well-known, Stortinget grants funds to regional health companies, not to the individual health business owned by the regional health company. My clear message to Health Mid-Norway RHF is that the proposed additional allocation is to be used to reduce the deficit that would otherwise have occurred, so that the performance requirement of the Storting for the regional health business can be met in 2007. I have full confidence that the board of Health Mid-Norway will ensure that the funds allocated are used in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1822	The reason why I ask the question is, as the Council of State is sure to understand, the message that the director of Health Mid-Norway goes out with. He says that the Council of State has gone in and overstepped this, saying that this money should only go for that purpose. The reason why the undersigned addresses the issue is precisely the way health enterprise reform is intended to work, i.e. the Management Board of the Central Norway Regional Health Agency is required to carry out its assessments of this – how best to do so. I would like to quote some of the things in the article: ‘It is the clear message received yesterday from Health Minister Sylvia Brustad by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr Kolbjørn Almlid’; So February 7th, 2007. So my question is, has the Council given a clear message to the Governor in central Norway that the money should only go to St. Olav's Hospital? Do not look at the situation, e.g. deficit, in the other health establishments in the region?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1838	Let me first say that I have full confidence in Mr. Kolbjørn Almlid, who is making an invaluable effort in a part of the country where, unfortunately, there has been a great deal of mismanagement in the past. There's also some reason why you're up in such a difficult situation as you are now, especially related to St. Olav's Hospital. Nor is there any doubt that with this grip that the government is now doing, and is proposing to the Stortinget, and to which I hope the Stortinget joins, there will be more patient treatment than it would have been if one were to adhere to the balance sheet requirement that lay there. So it's the government in Health Mid-Norway that has to deal with this regionally. What we've said is that the money is going to reduce the deficit in the region. There's no doubt that there's a very large deficit, especially related to St. Olav's Hospital. But it's the board that's going to decide where to put the money to reduce the deficit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1845	There is at least reason to conclude that what Almlid then says, as the journalist has interpreted Almlid in the newspaper, is that there is not a clear commitment here in terms of what the money will be used for, but that the aim is to reduce the deficit. That's the message from the Council of State. It is not only in one hospital and in one area that you have gone out of the way in Health Mid-Norway – also at Ålesund Hospital, at hospitals in Nord-Trøndelag and elsewhere, you know that there are also deficits, so you have to see this in a context. There is also reason to reflect a little on the answer given by the Council of State to the representative Schmidt here instead, namely that one should not necessarily introduce those who have done the bad economics. But that's actually what you do then, if you say everything is going to cover the deficit associated with St. Olav's Hospital – while others are coming in the back. So I hope the Council of State can confirm that the board now on a free basis has the opportunity to go in and look at the matter as a totality here, and that there are no other leads than that the money will go to pay off the deficit problem, and not specifically attached to the St. Olavs Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1852	I have not seen the specific newspaper statement to which the representative Nesvik refers. But I feel very confident that Kolbjørn Almlid and I are going in step – to say it that way. What is my message is, as I have now said, that the additional appropriations are going to reduce the deficit that would otherwise have arisen. So there's no doubt that the biggest challenge in Health Mid-Norway is St. Olav's Hospital. I have been notified by the board of directors and the board of directors, so it goes without saying that part of the money will go there. But just how the distribution becomes internal in the region, it's the board that's going to handle – and I trust that. Then I just want to say that as Minister of Health I also have a responsibility to ensure a healthy health service throughout the country. So despite the fact that in the past there has been a bad rush in Health Mid-Norway, and especially in a particular hospital, I have to contribute to ensuring patient care. That is why we thought it was right to give money, also to a region where it has previously been run too badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1863	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Refer to the letter of 21 December 2006 and to the notice of the NRK Mid-News 20 and 21 December 2006 and notice of the Namdalsavias 23 January this year stating that a nine-year-old from Namsos who has suffered severe diabetes is not to be awarded the most appropriate treatment aid by Health Mid-Norway, even if the application is duly justified by the patient’s pediatrician. Will the Council of State ensure that the health needs of patients are met for economic reasons in this and similar matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1872	The decision on the types of treatment aid to be provided to the individual patient is a responsibility of the regional health undertaking. After I have been informed by Health Mid-Norway RHF, the patient to whom the question refers has been handed over an insulin pump, but has applied for a new one. The type of insulin pump, as I have been informed, has been launched by the relevant supplier in autumn 2006. Health Mid-Norway RHF has informed that they will prepare a plan to assess whether patients need an insulin pump that can be connected to a unit that continuously measures their blood sugar. This will be done in cooperation with medical personnel. This could possibly apply to the patient concerned. In line with the leadership of the National Diabetes Strategy, I have commissioned the Social and Health Directorate to develop new common clinical guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of diabetes applicable to both primary and specialist healthcare. These guidelines will form the basis for decision on treatment with insulin pump in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1881	I thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, in the view of many, this matter has begun to be of such a nature that it can begin to be described as «tragic». I am familiar with the meeting that will be held tomorrow, where representatives of both the Health Region and the Health Directorate will look at what is going on for non-discrimination across the country. We know that, among other things: in the Drammen can get the pump that this patient needs, while you cannot get it in Health Mid-Norway – at least it is not distributed in Health Mid-Norway. My question will then be: will the Council of State, before tomorrow's meeting, make some recordings and clarifications, before the discussions, to ensure non-discrimination? Will she make sure that you participate in a positive way, so that you can guarantee equal treatment in all the regions in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1892	I trust that the regions – in this case Health Mid-Norway – will handle this matter in a good way. They have told me that they will then assess the type of insulin pump that measures your blood sugar continuously. So, as the representative, I'm also concerned that we get equivalence across the country. This is not only the case with this aid, but also with medicines, appliances and other types of treatment. That is why I have asked for new common guidelines to be put into effect across the country – the Social and Health Directorate has been commissioned to do so. We will also in a short time set up a new National Council for Priority and Quality. Then is my clear message: If we introduce new drugs, it will happen throughout the country. If we introduce new treatment methods, it's going to happen across the country. Nor shall it be such that obtaining the necessary auxiliaries or equipment depends on the health region in which they live. In this specific case, I am confident that Health Mid-Norway will find a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1901	We know that a number of people who have been seriously affected by diabetes have unfortunately suffered sensitisation – which has led to disability. The patient referred to here — and patients with similar diagnosis — may actually be at risk of sensitising. After the media releases that I referred to initially, we also know that a large part of the reasons for not distributing this pump have been economical. Then my question becomes: do the Council of State agree that in such matters it is wise to think socio-economic long-term? There can be no doubt that if you have to pay disability benefits to a person from the age of 20 to the age of 66, it represents a much larger sum than a necessary treatment aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1908	I expect the representative Eriksson to understand that I can neither decide nor have opinions every week about each case around the country that exemplifies conditions where one should have done such or such. What I have to make sure is that there is enough money in the system, that we have laws and rules that work, and that we have guidelines that will ensure that you do not receive different treatment if you are treated at that hospital or hospital. This takes the government very seriously, and that's why we're also making guidelines. We're making new plans, and we have our own strategy for the area of diabetes. I fully agree with the representative Eriksson that one has to do that one can to prevent people from suffering sensitivities – which might have been avoided if they had received help earlier. This applies throughout the course — from prevention to treatment, etc. So I fully agree. In this particular case, as I said, I have faith that Health Mid-Norway will find a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1923	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «In Finnmark Dagblad on 31 January this year we could read about an 84-year-old newly-operative patient from Karasjok who was sent home from the University Hospital Nord-Norway in Tromsø without a companion. The return trip lasted almost 24 hours. From the municipalities we hear about an increasing pressure in hospital settings, because elderly patients are quickly discharged from hospitals, or are not admitted to hospital treatment. Is the Council of State satisfied with the interaction between health enterprises and other actors, especially municipalities and transport operators?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1932	This event was mentioned – as the representative says – in Finnmark Dagblad at the end of January. The paper describes a repatriation that became rigid for the patient mentioned. He had been to treatment at the University Hospital of North Norway HF and was going home to Karasjok on scheduled flights. I'm sorry about the experiences this patient was exposed to. It is the regional health establishments that are responsible for covering the necessary costs for patients who travel in the context of medical examination and treatment. For patients to travel far, scheduled air transport – which the representative knows well – is currently available. The patient may travel with an escort, with assistance from the carrier or on his own. This evaluation shall be carried out by the healthcare professional, on the basis of a medical evaluation of the patient. This is the result of a regulation covering travel expenses for examination or treatment. It's important that this happens in a proper and proper way. In this case, after the information I received, it was assessed that the patient could travel – with the assistance of the airline. However, due to bad weather, the flight was still at risk, and the patient did not return until after a hotel accommodation in Tromsø, as the asker also explains. After this event, it is appropriate to ask whether the healthcare professionals should also consider in their assessment of the patient’s transport needs that such unforeseen events may occur. Health Nord RHF has informed me that in a quick meeting with the airline they will deal with the matter on a general basis. The representative also asks questions about the interaction between health enterprises and municipalities. It is known that hospital laytime has decreased, but there is not necessarily a correlation between shorter laytime and pressure on municipal care services. At present, both municipalities and health businesses are under greater pressure to carry out more tasks than before. Local authorities are experiencing increased demand for care services, and health businesses are receiving more references — while increasing the number of immediate help placements. In order to provide users and patients with a more comprehensive and coherent treatment provision, the Ministry of Health and Welfare cooperates with the KS on a national agreement on interaction between service levels. This agreement will be completed in the summer and will provide the basis for all municipalities and regional health companies to enter into their own agreements for better interaction between patients and users. Finally, let me add that this kind of thing really needs to be solved in a pretty straightforward way, because there are some people both in hospitals and in the municipalities who are responsible for making sure that someone is there for the person who is going home and who needs help – and that the offer is there when you need it. It's a lot of things about the responsibility of someone who can take a phone when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1949	I want to thank you for the answer – and I have a follow-up question. According to both the Finnish Patient Ombudsman and the Information Manager in Ontøe, Karasjok's story of the newly operated 84-year-old in wheelchairs is not a single example of long and rigid return trips. The patient representative in Finnmark is concerned about the interaction and dialogue between the health business and transport operators. In addition, single and elderly patients are a particularly vulnerable group of patients, who in many cases are immediately dependent on local government and primary health services when they come home. Is the Council of State considering measures to improve the interaction between health enterprises and transport operators and to involve municipal health services more closely in this interaction?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1956	The answer to that is yes. Both through agreements and by other appropriate means, and of course in close interaction with the municipalities, we do what we can to achieve better interaction in practice. The government has also announced that we will bring a new investment grant to build more hospitals and nursing homes, but also to get more short-term places in hospitals. That is often what is bent – getting the necessary interaction, for the benefit of patients. So that's what we're going to do in not too long. With regard to the specific example, which I regret – and I repeat it – I believe that there is a need to go through more closely how this works. Therefore, it is very important that Health Nord does what they have now informed me about, namely to address the matter on a general basis – that is also the basis for which, as there are several examples – in an early meeting with the airline. Because we have to be sure that all patients who are dependent on being transported over longer distances, whether they are older or younger, are guaranteed a proper setup, so that we avoid the kind of events that we have seen here an example of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1965	I would also like to thank you for this reply. We are constantly seeing examples in the localities of elderly patients being sent home from the hospital without being able to take care of themselves. Last night we saw an example in Oppland Arbeiderblad. A 75-year-old single woman was sent home in the evening, with a leg plastered from her foot to hers. Gjøvik Hospital recently had to cut 24 beds. After Christmas they have had an overcoating of between 110 and 116 pst. We can almost fear that we are on our way to a health care system that is so effective that it goes well, both for patients and employees. Health enterprises and municipalities are encouraged to enter into written agreements between themselves in order to commit to an interaction. Many municipalities state that they have not concluded such agreements. What will the Council of State do to ensure that several municipalities and health care companies enter into written cooperation agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1974	Let me first say that it is very important that all patients are properly cared for. I do not know the specific example from Uppland to which the representative here refers, but in any case it must be that there is someone who is in need of help after one comes out of the hospital. The municipalities have a responsibility for this. They've got more money. Sickhouses have a responsibility. They have also received significantly more money at their disposal — on a general basis. It's about organizing yourself in such a way that you get it done in practice. It is about appointing some persons who are responsible for ensuring that interaction. We're going to organise financial arrangements to get it done. We are going through the funding system for the health sector to see if it can also help to make this easier. But the municipalities and hospitals have a separate responsibility to make sure that they talk together, for the benefit of the patients. In the case of specific agreements, we have to complete a national agreement for the summer. We work continuously both with the municipalities and with hospitals to ensure that they also make local agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1985	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Agriculture and Food: ‘The agriculture stands for 9 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. The greenhouse gas methane from manure is part of this. This is an emission source that can be used for energy production through biogas plants. In particular, in larger farms and in cooperation with the other waste sector, such plants can contribute to both increased power and heat generation, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and improved fertiliser quality. What does the Council of State do to stimulate biogas plants at farms in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e1994	Biogas, inter alia from manure is, as the representative Holten Hemdal points out, a high-quality energy form that can be exploited for the production of electricity, fuel and heat. The removal of energy from the manure may also increase the fertilisation value of the residual product through composted fertilisers. Biogas plants will also prevent methane losses from the storage and management of manure and will thus be one important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. It's important. At the same time, we are solving a waste problem. As I see it, therefore, the use of manure for energy purposes is both sensible and forward-looking. State pollution control has assessed biogas plants as a socio-economic viable measure in their action analysis to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This conclusion depends on mixing food waste in addition to manure. Fertilizers alone contain too little energy to make such an investment profitable. This implies a need for close cooperation between agriculture and the waste sector. This is a cooperation that we are about to establish now. Farm biogas plants are widespread in many countries, including within the EU. In Norway, there is still a high untapped potential for biogas production from manure. I am therefore initially committed to facilitating the establishment of a biogas pilot plant in Norway. The bioenergy programme of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is an instrument in this context and some biogas projects have already been supported by the programme. It is important to build on knowledge and experience in other countries and adapt it to Norwegian circumstances. In this context, the Government will also assess the framework conditions for such facilities in the future, and look at what is necessary to ensure the realisation of socially viable projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2003	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Fertilizers are almost like cheek eggs – they are good climate policies, they are good energy saving, and the fertiliser is getting better. Yes, the resources on the farm will be used. That's why I want to challenge the state council here. You were talking about framework conditions. You said that it is now important to set up some pilot projects. You will also have to make a strategy plan to make agriculture more environmentally friendly. Could an energy fund, according to the forest fund model, be a model that the Council of State can imagine, be one of the measures to give the farmer, as the good nutritionist he is, the investments he needs to take that roof, take, together with us others, the climate challenges seriously and find the solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2012	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2015	I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2020	Of course, I share the representative’s concerns – and in particular to see the opportunities – about the area we are discussing here. After all, it is not bad that we got there in 2007 that we define manure as a cheek egg. This means that some progress has been made. The reality is that, in several areas, biogas production based on biogas can be realised. When it comes to working in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on environmental issues, it is quite right, as the representative says, that I am now working on a concrete plan in relation to environmental issues in agriculture, and presented some thoughts around it in the representative's home country last week. My ambition is to develop agriculture significantly on the environmental side. In this way, I will neither conclude for nor against individual proposals in that context now, but of course I am more than susceptible to good proposals as to what we can and should do in concrete terms to ensure that we have an agricultural policy that takes steps every year in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2027	I thank you again for the answer and also for the willingness of the Council of States to make a serious contribution so that together we can solve the climate challenges we are facing. However, the Council of State will also, through the Minister of Environmental Protection, deliver its sector-wide climate action plan to the Stortinge during the spring. A measure that can help save energy, as such a biogas plant is, through a fund scheme, I think is a good thing, given that the support schemes we per. Today, in this area, there is too much in relation to Enova, which is too high to allow a farmer to receive support for waste treatment as well. So here it has to do something for the agricultural sector, and I hope the minister can take it along and assess whether not a fund à la forest fund is a way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2034	Yeah, I'll bring you some good shots. I am happy for everyone who is concerned about the environment and agriculture and seeing the opportunities in this area in the future. We are going to work a lot on that, and I am convinced that we are going to come up with concrete proposals that contribute precisely to what the representative here is asking for, a change and a clear direction that is about the environment, which is about taking care of the resources that are in agriculture, and using them for – in this case – energy and at the same time solving environmental problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2043	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: ‘Other municipalities in the South have introduced and practised housing obligations. Some form of housing is for agricultural property and other forms of housing are mandatory in some cities, such as Lillesand, where there is now a desire to strengthen the control of housing obligations. Housing is controversial and, as a rule, bad as a means of maintaining both agricultural and urban housing. Does the Council of State feel that it is in line with international law to force people to settle on property you own, or does the Council of State see a need to change the Norwegian rules on housing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2052	The government wants to implement a district policy force to maintain the main features of the housing pattern and to lay the basis for value creation throughout the country. In a country with scattered settlements and large distances, we must have the will and ability to pursue a policy that will do something more than rule only through framework conditions and otherwise make the market prevail. For me, it is important to have a comprehensive policy for the exploitation of both agricultural property and housing, and we need to use different tools to secure living communities throughout the country. Occupancy – and as both the personal dwelling obligation on agricultural property and the ‘personal’ dwelling obligation on residential property in the municipalities that consider such a provision to be necessary – is one of the instruments we have today. If the obligation to live is removed, the conditions for such properties to be used for recreational purposes are laid down. We don't deserve that. In other words, I believe that there are many good reasons why we in Norway should add up to having a dwelling permit. Then, of course, I am aware that the European Court of Justice in a decision on the personal residence of agricultural property states that the place of residence as it is designed in Denmark, among others. should be assessed in the light of human rights as addressed by the representative here. As I also informed Stortinget in the Questionnaire last week, there is reason to go through the judgment thoroughly and properly. I will then come back with more information to Stortinget about what is concrete in this verdict.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2061	I thank you for your answer. I think I should refer to Professor Normann Anesland. In recent nations, it says: ‘Professor Normann Angesland encourages everyone living with an obligation to turn the banner and settle where they want to. – The state dares not take matters to justice anyway, he promises.As the nation reported yesterday, Minister of Agriculture Terje Riis-Johansen will fight with beaks and claws to keep his place of residence, even though the European Court of Justice recently ruled that it is contrary to human rights and the free flow of capital. The Government fears that the scheme will become illegal.» Does the Minister of Agriculture and Food not see that Professor Anesland has any significant points in what he says here, that the State dares not take this to the judiciary anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2075	No, I think in general Professor Normann Anesland has relatively few good points in what he is making here of reasoning. There is a point of view that the professor in question has had for many decades, which is relatively independent of the judgment that has now come. We are going to go through what has happened in the European Court of Justice, in a proper way, and evaluate what is there, in relation to the Norwegian Home Office, and then come up with our assessment of it. However, it is a fact that the Norwegian residence obligation is different from the Danish one that has been assessed in the European Court of Justice. The Danish obviously has some aspects that are different and must be said to be more restrictive than the Norwegian. So there is no automation in that the assessments made around the Danish automatically apply to the Norwegian. But we're going to really and really go into this, and of course we'll come back with an assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2082	I thank you for your answer. To put it this way: the EC judgment of Denmark clearly states that Article 56 of the EU Treaty on the free movement of capital prevents national legislation in this field. At the same time, the requirement of residence is contrary to Article 43 on freedom of establishment; it is contrary to Article 13 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights that everyone has the right to reside freely within the borders of a State and it appears to be contrary to Article 17 of the UN that everyone has the right to own property without being arbitrarily deprived of his property. My question then has to be: Is international law – UN law and EU law – completely immaterial, as the Council of State sees it, in relation to the current Norwegian housing regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2091	It is possible that I did not express myself clearly enough in my previous answer. I think I said quite clearly that we should go through this, and that concerns the references to which the representative here refers. It is a work that we are now doing, and where we are going to make assessments afterwards, when we have received a legal assessment of what has happened. I have expressed that, and of course I still do. That's what we're going to do. This does not mean that I do not believe that the place of residence in Norway has had an essential function in ensuring that there is light in the houses in rural areas, even when it is not a summer holiday, a Easter holiday or a winter holiday. It is an essential part of Norwegian agricultural and rural policy. We don't force anyone to live anywhere, but we say that when people choose to take over a farm, there are also some obligations to the big community in this regard, namely that they actually want to live there, and also want to primarily use the farm as a starting point for the development of the rural community they are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2096	Then we've come to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2103	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘Largefoss small power plants in Tovdalselva are subject to a concession requirement even if it appears obvious that the protection values are not impaired and that the general movement is not adversely affected by an extension. Report No 134 from LFI, Unifob, University of Bergen concludes that biodiversity is not adversely affected by expansion. Major technical interventions have already been carried out at the site of deployment in the form of junctions in the river, road, rail and power lines. Does the Council of State see the unreasonableness of the decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2112	The requested Storefoss power plant is located in the upper part of Tovdalselva, which is protected in the water protection plan. The NVE found that the measure was compulsory. The Lander appealed against this decision to the Ministry. In order to take a position on the question of the concession obligation, the Ministry has examined whether the extension could be of significant harm or disadvantage to any public interest in the watercourse. I have to draw attention to the fact that the rules on power development in sheltered watercourses are the Stortinget established by law and in the decisions on watercourse protection, no later than spring 2005. Under the Water Resource Act, consideration of the protection values shall be given to decisions concerning a protected watercourse. I would also like to point out that the legal processor assumes that the threshold for public interest concerns should be lower in protected watercourses than in other watercourses. With a leaching capacity of 21 m3/s, the water flow in the river will be significantly reduced by the expansion of Storefoss. Such a significant water draw-off is incompatible with the protection status of the watercourse and could harm the general interests of biological and hydrological conditions and leave an impression of the watercourse as significantly influenced by power generation interventions. I would also mention that the railway line and the power lines near the watercourse do not directly affect the watercourse part in question. By letter of 12 January this year, the Ministry concluded that the measure could cause significant damage to the public interest. The measure is therefore subject to a concession obligation. The size has opened up the concession treatment of power plants with an installed power output of up to 1 MW in sheltered watercourses. Therefore, the holder of the measure may apply for a concession within that framework. Application for a concession to a power plant with installed power of approx. On the other hand, 3 MW, which was the basis of the concession obligation assessment, would contravene the rules laid down by the Stortinget for the development of power in sheltered watercourses in the spring of 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2130	This must be a sad matter for the Center Party. In yesterday's Agderpost we could read that "The defense force forces the family to move". So the refusal to build this small power plant is tearing away the future life base of the Gaulacht farm in Birkenes. The farm owner sees himself forced to take his wife and three children and move out of the farm for good because the nutritional basis has been removed. Is this really a district policy that the Center Party may be familiar with? I would also like to ask: can the Council of State at least consider looking at this matter once again, when he sees what unfortunate consequences this rejection has for both a family and a community? In addition, I am very well known in the district and know – I mean at least – that the rejection is given on the wrong basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2137	I have no problem at all joining the representative's assessments that it is sad that this case might have such an outcome as is now described. However, I have to deal with the decisions of the Stortinge in terms of protected watercourses, and I also have to deal with the decisions and frameworks that the Stortinge provides for the development of protected watercourses. After my best assessment and on the basis that I have had to assess this case, this measure is subject to concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2144	I thank you for your answer. I know this matter very well. I have followed it for six–seven years and believe that I know all the facts in the matter. My clear conclusion is that the reason for the rejection here does not hold the goal professionally in any way. This expansion does not harm public interest or biodiversity, nor does it weaken the protection value of the River Tovdal, as I can judge it. In the case of the site itself, as mentioned above, major technical interventions have already been carried out. It's blown down 5 meters into the river, and there's a lot of evidence that there's no place that's not affected by people. I am of the crystal clear opinion that the rejection of the Storefoss small power plant has been taken on a completely wrong basis, and I therefore ask the Council once again to ensure that this matter can possibly be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2153	I will of course take with me the argument that has now been put forward, that this can be taken on a completely wrong basis. I don't have any clues at all to believe that that's the case. This matter has been carefully assessed. And as I said, it is also possible for the landowner and the owner of the measure to apply for a concession within a framework of 1 MW, as determined by the Stortinget. It is, of course, limited in terms of the action holder’s intention, but it is thus the limit set by the size of the concessionary measure. Of course, I have great respect for the fact that the representative is well-known in the area and has looked at this matter for a long time. So I take the argument with me and I want to look at the matter again, but I don't want to give any hope of another outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-14.ana.ud1002e2162	Today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure? - The meeting has been cancelled.
