ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e85	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. They called the alternates, for Finnmark County Johnny Ingebrichtsen and for Nordland County Knut Petter Torgersen, have taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Torstein Rudihagen from 13 November onwards and until further notice from the Left Group on the leave of the representative Vera Lysklött from 13 to 14 November to take part in the appointed Grand Delegation to Estonia from the representative Laila Davøy on leave from 13 November to 15 November to attend meetings of the EEA Parliamentary Committee in Strasbourg from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave from 13 November to 15 November to take part in a trip to Cambodia from 13 November to 15 November as chairman of the delegation of the United Kingdom to the Interparliamentary Union and member of the IPU Working Group on the new UN Committee of the IPU. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Finnmark County of Bjørg-Irishe Østrem and the first alternate of the Hordaland County of Knut Arild Hareide are both currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representatives of Vera Lysklätt and Laila Davøy. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Stepe NoodtFor Hordaland County: Toril Selsvold NyborgFor Uppland County: Synnove Fire KlemetrudFor Rogaland County: Siri A. Meling2. Siri A. Meling is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e157	Step Noodt, Toril Selsvold Nyborg, Synnove Fire Klemetrud and Siri A. Meling are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e163	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Anders Anundsen and Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Anders Anundsen and Solvency Horne are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e186	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to 3 lines after submissions by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e195	The representative proposal by Olemic Thommessen, Elisabeth Aspaker, André Oktay Dahl and Martin Engeset for a full review of the regulation on the rights and use of coercion while staying at the Child Protection Institute addresses a problem that it has recently been possible to discuss in the light of several tragic events. So we've had two deaths in child protection institutions only in the last year. Violence, drug abuse and abuse occur in institutions. Various studies show that not all young people living in institutions feel safe there. And it's no wonder when children and young people with different needs are placed in the same institution, with behavioral problems, drug problems and the fear of young people who are simply placed there because of care failure. Then it is very important that employees have clear and simple rules to interpret and deal with. The Committee would stress that the protection of privacy and the freedom and integrity of individuals must always be balanced against the use of coercion. The Committee also considers it very important to clarify that we must never violate human rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. But the committee splits into two, and I assume that the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party, will explain their views. When parents leave their children under public responsibility, either voluntarily or under coercion, they expect their children to be safe. It also expects society – that child protection should provide children, and in these cases particularly vulnerable young people, safe and stable frameworks in the child protection institutions where they live. Unfortunately, because different institutions interpret the regulations differently, there is also different treatment for young people living there. That youth will test the limits, that they are frustrated and even angry, is hardly anything new, and that these young people may not be so good at communicating, is probably also conceivable, without me wanting to stigmatize child protection youth for that reason. The most important thing for young people with drug, violence and behaviour problems is to have a firm and secure framework around them. In addition, the criminal environment around these young people has become increasingly tough, and they may need to be protected so that they cannot be traced. The young children of child-rescue institutions are allowed to keep their cell phones, they have been told to us; from there they can order baptism and almost get it delivered at least outside the door. In other words, they keep in touch with the environment from which they were forced to move. It must be possible to check what they receive, in the mail either by letter or as parcels, and it must also be possible to pick up the phone from a young person without necessarily a reasonable suspicion of drug use. It is therefore very important that we get a full review of the regulations, so that employees have something concrete to do with, and there is no room for interpretation, and that gives employees, not least, the means they need to work with a very demanding youth group. In addition, it is likely that knowledge and methodology developments should also be updated from day to day. Both child protection and we want these children to do well. The intention of the proposal is to protect and protect, for the benefit of young people. And then coercion might actually be necessary. I will therefore address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e216	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal she referred to and is included in the setting on page 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e219	The debate on the use of coercion in child protection is an important debate – important for several reasons. Firstly, because these are fundamental issues related to the individual’s right to be met with respect and dignity in a welfare and legal society like ours, while children and young people under the care of child protection often carry heavy experiences of life from the past and are therefore more vulnerable and affected by, for example: environments where intoxication and criminal behaviour are common. Therefore, in this debate, we must stress that the interests of privacy and the freedom and integrity of individuals must constantly be balanced against the use of coercion. Paragraphs 5 to 9 of the Children's Protection Act and the related regulation on the rights and use of coercion specify the rules on when coercion can be applied to residents of child protection institutions and the type of coercion that can be used. This is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and shows that it is therefore possible to use coercion when the detailed conditions for doing so are met. However, it is important to stress that coercive use must be based on an individual assessment of the individual resident according to the specific situation in question. It is therefore absolutely necessary to exercise discretion within the framework set by the law, although I believe that we all, fortunately, agree that it is an objective in itself to have a common understanding of the law and a consistent practice in dealing with coercive practices against children and young people. I am pleased that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality stresses that the practice of child protection legislation will be followed closely, and that the need for changes will be continuously assessed in order to ensure that the legislation is adapted to the challenges facing it. However, I would also like to mention the fact that the summary report of the nationwide supervision of child protection institutions in 2006, led by the County of Buskerud, points out that there is a great need for continuing training of employees in view of the use of possible restrictions and coercion and how this should be handled correctly and under the legislation. The County does not propose to amend the legislation, but emphasises that good and targeted training in the practice of the rules could deliver the desired results. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has previously sent out a letter of clarification to the institutions concerned on the possibilities and frameworks of today's legislation for the use of coercion. Many children and young people who are under the care of child protection have in common a lack of care, love, and security around their lives so far in life. It is therefore so important that caregivers related to the protection of children should be able to provide them with this as far as possible. As far as possible, young people must have a normal life, experience that they are part of a family or housing community and of a community, and be able to participate in school, cultural and leisure activities. It is therefore an important objective to minimise the use of coercion and to avoid unnecessary coercion. We need to find the balance between freedom and trust on the one hand and restrictions and coercive measures on the other, when we see that it is necessary to protect the most vulnerable young people. I believe that the measures provided by the Department, with the continuous assessment of legislation and regulations in combination with training in their practice, are the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e232	I agree with the representative Karin Woldseth that it is serious that there have recently been serious incidents such as violence, intoxication and abuse in child protection institutions. Children also show that they feel insecure and afraid in institutions. This must be taken seriously because it is unacceptable for children who initially have difficulties to experience it. The fact that a child is taken out of his or her own home is the greatest intervention public intervention in a family. We must therefore ensure that the measures taken are of good quality and best for the child. The proposers behind Document No. 8:63 are concerned with the safety of employees and residents of child protection institutions. They will resolve it with more coercion and control measures through a regulatory change. We've been told that the rule is interpreted differently. It also appeared during the consultations on this proposal that representatives of the institutions felt that a full review of the regulation was necessary. The Joint Organisation also wishes to review the current legal provisions and regulations, and to focus strongly on the professional content and framework conditions for the provision of assistance to children and young people with a high level of assistance. SV is therefore pleased that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is following closely the practice of the law in the field of child protection and that the need for changes will be continuously assessed in order to ensure that the legislation is adapted to the current challenges we face. I fully agree with the County of Buskerud, which points out that there is a great need for training of employees, in view of the use of possible restrictions and coercion and how this should be handled correctly under the legislation. It is good that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has sent out a letter to all institutions clarifying the possibilities and frameworks of today's legislation for coercion. The protection of privacy and the freedom and integrity of individuals must be balanced against the use of coercion. The law and regulation specify rules for the use of coercion and the type of coercion that may be used. This is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is possible to use coercion when the detailed conditions for doing so are met. When the child is a threat to himself and others, it is absolutely necessary and right that it be protected from itself, and also that others be protected. Finally, I would like to stress that training is needed in this difficult field, and not least that one always assesses whether the law and regulations are good enough. This must be followed closely, so that we do not come back to a situation of new child protection claims. Children under child protection measures shall have good and safe measures, where they are not at risk of being subjected to violence and abuse. Continuous development of knowledge and methods is also essential for meeting the major and new challenges we now face in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e247	It is true, as has been said, that there are serious situations earlier this year that have caused the proposal as, among other things, I've been in the process. It's not just the safety aspect that's behind it. It is also about quality – about predictable frameworks and safe boundaries, which will create peace, a better atmosphere and better conditions to operate the institutions we are talking about. Of course, the children and young people who are inside the picture here form a composite group. Not all should be cut over one comb, but we know that a significant part of them, in addition to having a hard-onset background, with failing family relationships, are also quite dubious criminals who have a long run not only in terms of child protection, but also in terms of police and – a little depending on age – prosecution authorities. I am a little surprised at the feedback from the government team on this matter, which in many ways shows that you are not willing to listen to the many recordings from those who work in child protection, and from the police. There are recordings we have received through the daily press, at the hearings and directly to the parties, and I am quite sure that the government parties have also received. Let me clarify what has been wanted. We are talking about a list set up by the Private Child Protection Organisation. There you want, under certain conditions, an opportunity to refuse young people to be together in the rooms. They have taken up the right to search in case of suspicion of stolen goods. The question of directing young people outside of school has been raised, i.e. in leisure time. This is the possibility of taking young people on a trip outside the institution without their consent. It is about taking care of financial resources for a period of time. It's about, for example, also to refuse mobile phone usage in order to prevent contact with old networks. Having collective rules in these areas, tightening up the possibilities of discretion to some extent, I think, first of all, will provide a regulatory framework that is easier to deal with for all parties, not least for those concerned. Of course, we are talking about a code that must be well within the framework mentioned in previous articles here. I'll show you, for example. Mr Woldseth's observations, in which she said that human rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child should of course be respected. We have received very clear signals through the hearings, especially from people working in this system, that the regulations we have today provide a room for discretion that creates uncertainty. It creates a climate for negotiations and training on key issues related to institution bordering. It's serious notions that I think we should take a little more seriously than just pointing out that here you're going to add up to some more courses. We're talking about a child's protection that generally wears on the back, which takes heavy roofs in many areas. Then it's important to listen to the grassroots in the system. It's important to listen to those who work there. Here there must be room for going in and at least making a closer assessment of part of the concrete wishes that have been expressed. The extent of a regulatory change we will always be able to come back to, but that you refuse to go into this, I think is surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e264	The Storting representatives Thommessen, Aspaker, Oktay Dahl and Engeset have through Document No. The 8-proposal focuses on children and young people with serious behavioural problems in child protection institutions. They have asked the Government to amend the regulation on the rights and use of coercion while staying in a child protection institution — the right regulation — in order to extend the staff of the institution to the scope of control measures and restriction of freedom. Today's legislation provides for the possibility to apply coercive measures. The biggest challenge, as I see it, is the practice of it. I'll explain why. Child protection is a theme I'm particularly concerned with. The use of coercion in child protection raises both professional, legal and ethical challenges. Over time, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has made considerable efforts to gain knowledge and develop targeted actions for children and young people with behavioural problems, both institutional and community-based interventions. This work shall continue. In addition to a good code of practice that is used correctly, good professional practices will be essential for the provision of good treatment to children and young people — if necessary through the use of coercive measures. The European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child provide a framework for the use of coercion. The Child Protection Act and the Rights Regulation are based on them and shall facilitate good and efficient care and treatment in an institution, while ensuring the legal certainty of residents. In the written reply to Document No: The 8 proposal provided examples of individual provisions of the right regulation that regulate the possibility of coercion. The provisions referred to may be relevant in relation to the group of children and young people on whom they are engaged. The legislation allows a resident to search the premises and assets of a resident, to carry out body searches and to check records. The right of the occupant to move outside the area of the institution may be restricted. Exterior visits may be refused. A resident may be refused association with others in his or her own room or common room without the presence of any of the staff. The institution may refuse to carry its own mobile phone to the institution. It is also possible to use coercive measures following general emergency and emergency assessments. Access for a resident to move outside the territory of the institution shall be restricted to the extent that this is deemed necessary for the purpose of the accommodation. This can be done by keeping the exit door locked. For all coercive use in child protection institutions, it must be based on an individual and concrete assessment in relation to the individual resident. This assessment may be burdensome. I understand that the employees of the institution in their day-to-day work are faced with difficult balances. Representatives have pointed out that there may be a need for collective rules that apply to all. In 2006, the county councillors carried out nation-wide supervision of child protection institutions and the practice of the rights regulation. The summary report shows that restrictions imposed as a routine for all would facilitate the enforcement of the rules for employees but undermine legal certainty for residents. I agree with the assessment that this will lead to reduced legal certainty for residents. Children and young people in child protection institutions shall have as much normal life as possible. They should initially be able to make use of school and leisure services in the community. Studies show that, in general, open interventions have better results than those for those young people who complete the treatment scheme as planned. The legislation regulates when and how coercion can be applied. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality follows closely the practice of the law and regulation in the field of child protection. I believe that the legislation today provides the necessary protection of the integrity of children and young people during their housing. At the same time, it allows for enforcement in specific cases where necessary, including: for the purpose of individual placement. The Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate provides training in the institutional staff’s rights regulations. The commitment to increased regulatory knowledge must continue. The Ministry shall, after consultation, have draft rules on internal control in the institutions for the protection of children. Internal controls include, inter alia: the institution shall ensure that its staff possess sufficient knowledge and skills in the field of science. All the country's child protection institutions have received letters clarifying the possibilities for the use of today's legislation. I see there may be a need for further clarification in some areas. The Ministry therefore now draws up its own circular on the right regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e295	The Council of State says that it is the practice that is the problem, and that we must follow developments closely. But we know that there have been tragic events at child protection institutions twice in the last year. Then I have to ask the Council of State: how many more young people in the institution have to lose their lives before you actually take this into account and understand the seriousness, and understand that you can't always use it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e300	I am aware of the tragic events to which it is now referred. It is quite obvious that this is shaking many – including me. But as I've shown in my main post, I'm absolutely convinced that it's very central that child protection workers and those who work in an institution show discretion in a sufficient way, and that we strengthen the competence around being able to use coercion in a good way. There are openings, there are possibilities in today's legislation. I am absolutely convinced that this is what needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e312	Let me initially wish the Council of State a welcome in the chair. I look forward to cooperation on child protection, including: It should be certain that there is a need for a roof in many other areas than just what we are discussing today. I take note that, by this crossroads, the Council of State chooses not to listen to the employees in the field of child protection, but to believe that further activity is to be based on the legislation that exists today. And it's obvious that it doesn't work. It is obvious that the course referred to does not provide sufficient results. If it did, we wouldn't have had the reactions we get from a very broad base of employees. Then my questions have to be, what does the Council of State think to do? How does she think to do this better?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e321	It is referred to professional advice, and it is important to listen to the professional advice also regarding the outcome for the individual child. The aim of child protection and child protection institutions is also to improve the situation for individual children, and the professional advice says that when children are voluntary, better results are also achieved. Then I also agree that we need to strengthen our efforts, but within the margin of discretion contained in the legislation. We've also received a lot of information that employees don't know enough about it, and that's what we need to strengthen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e328	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen as the Council of State and to welcome many fruitful discussions here in Stortinget, among others. on the protection of children. It's tragic that these kids have come into a situation where they can't live with their family, but they need to live in an institution. The county has the task of supervising both institutions and measures for these children. I have a summons to the Council of State. I've heard that there's a lot of people who don't have enough resources to do as much supervision as you'd like, and that the kids are going to be losers here. I want to encourage the government to look at the resource situation of the county councillors, and look at the questions that have been raised by the child-responsive institutions, that a person would like to have a dialogue with the county council, but one feels that sometimes at the wrong time, because of narrow frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e337	I would like to stress that I am very pleased with the commitment shown in relation to the complex issue. At the same time, I want to make sure that the issues that have been raised about lack of money in terms of supervision are something I want to look at. I can't give a full overview of what's going on here and now, but I'm taking the video that's coming, and I'm going to look into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e342	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e345	I want to start with a little story from a child-rescue institution, where a youth had stolen the TV at the institution, took it to his room and sat there and watched TV. The result was that the rest of the Children's Protection Agency, i.e. the other residents, could not watch TV. It also meant that the employees could not go into the room of this youth and pick up the TV, which was then stolen from the institution. They had to wait for the police to come. So this is everyday life in the child-rescue institutions. This is not the way we would have done it at home. We want young people to live in something that is almost a home – an institution can never become a home, but almost a home. That means that one of the employees could actually go in and pick up that TV, and you didn't have to wait until the police arrived. The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen talks about respect and dignity, and that there may be unnecessary coercion. She almost seems to be hearing as if the proposers and those who join the proposal do not respect the young people living in the institution, and that it is obvious that employees will use unnecessary coercion. We actually have faith in the employees, and we actually have a lot of respect for children and young people living in institutions, who, unfortunately for some reason, cannot live at home. But that doesn't mean they don't need safe and firm frames and boundaries around them. It is not at all good enough how it works today, when children living in institutions are afraid of other residents of the institution, when children feel threatened by what is going to be a home, when young people die of overdose or die because other residents are out of control. That's not good enough. Then I understand neither the Labour Party nor the SV's approach to this. Both representatives who have been to the pulpit and talked about the matter have acknowledged that this is a problem. What's so dangerous about getting a thorough review of the regulations that are? What's so dangerous about it, if we can save lives? That is what we can actually do by tightening up the boundaries and intensifying the beauty, so that employees actually get the opportunity to intervene when things are at stake – without having to wait for the police or that there must be a justified suspicion. That is what the proposers want. I hope we will release more tragic cases of child protection, and I hope that the Government and the Council of State will actually review the regulations – even if she does not say she will, because they come from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e358	Unfortunately, children and young people lose their foothold in growth. This may happen because parents fail as caregivers — or because the young person himself has been in negative environments, has major behavioural problems or problems related to drug use, violence or other crime. Helping these children and young people is a major challenge. The protection of children shall provide the individual with a high-quality, adapted offer. However, in order to operate sound child protection, it is necessary to be able to set limits and exercise the controls that make it possible to succeed in the offer made. This is also about the safety of the individual child, of the employees and of the other residents. The right considers that there is a need to allow employees of child protection institutions to exercise more stringent controls on residents. The discretionary space is too large today and the rules of vagueness, and the Right considers this to be an obstacle to providing good care to children and young people in need of community assistance. Right-wing requests in this representative proposal by the Government to make necessary changes to the regulation on the rights and use of coercion while staying in a child protection institution. We must, as far as possible, try to eliminate the uncertainty of employees and ensure that they have a sufficient basis of trust to intervene with the necessary control measures and restrictions of freedom. The aim must be to limit freedom to residents in a way that does not deprive them of legal certainty, but where freedom is balanced against proper residence for the young person himself and the security of other residents and employees. I believe that child protection responses and controls are not always proportionate to what this child needs. We also need to remember that a well-functioning child protection system is good crime prevention against children at risk of developing criminal behaviour. It goes without saying that children and young people who have ‘exploded’ themselves out of their childhood home and got involved with their parents, siblings and friends must meet with firm and secure frameworks. The absence of border control and border control is at best misunderstood and may in many cases be the opposite of good care. Society must never allow itself to abdidate. On the contrary, it is more important than ever to clarify individual expectations. It's against common sense that we can have a system of child protection where, in accordance with current law and regulations, young people can hide in their room and engage in activities that are directly harmful to themselves. When the boss of Oslo expresses great concern about the continued contact of child protection clients with criminal environments or clients that cause great harm to themselves where they are, we must take this seriously. The best interests of the child must guide how we assist children in crisis situations, regardless of where the assistance is provided – inside or outside the family. The right will stress that it is the duty of society at all times to ensure that child protection has the necessary means to carry out its tasks towards the children for which it is responsible, in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e371	This is an important theme. What can we do to help the most disadvantaged children? I don't think there are any simple A4 solutions for the most postponed children. But I think it's very important that we listen to those who work the most with these children. We know that there are a lot of people involved in child protection who make a huge effort for those who have had a traumatic childhood or who have landed on the slope plane and need a special follow-up. The committee has received a letter from the Norwegian Collective Cooperation Forum, which I know has also been sent to the department. They say here: ‘The regulation does not confer on the collective sufficient powers to keep the treatment measure free. A drug-free environment is a fundamental prerequisite for providing a sound treatment provision.’ They further state in the letter to the Committee: ‘The Norwegian Collective Cooperation Forum considers that a review of the law and regulations is required. We find that the regulation is not sufficient to provide the necessary help to the most outnumbered young people. We also experience that the regulation gives great room for interpretation and that the statesmen have very different discretion. Such law and regulation works today, there are many young people who do not get the help they could get, and many professionals who have given up. There is a tendency in many youth institutions and laws and regulations are used to excuse the lack of intervention.’ For the Christian People's Party it is important to listen to these signals. We thought it was important because they have been working close to these children for a long time, and they have an intense desire to help them, and we have an intense desire for these children to receive the necessary help and follow-up. Of course, there should be legal certainty. But then a story about young people who want to voluntarily give up their mobile phone because they see that by having him, people they might rather not be in contact with will come in contact with them. But they do not have the opportunity to go into a voluntary action today and say: I give away my mobile phone, they can take care of him, I see that it is not good for me to have him. According to today's legislation, they don't have the right to do it, according to those who work with these children. That is why I think it is very important that we have a complete review, that we listen to professionals and that we listen to young people who have been through this difficult situation. In my challenge to the state council, I came up with this with the statesmen. I'm a little worried because statesmen have an extremely important task. But there are not so many who fight – if there is anyone at all – for them to have sufficient means to carry out their statutory tasks – that they should be able to supervise, and that they should be able to verify that the supply provided is good enough. It is then important that the county councillors can come to the institutions at different times than in their normal working hours — perhaps young people are out of work or in school. That is why I will continue to work to ensure that it is important to have the searchlight on the responsibilities and tasks of the county councillors. It is important to listen to those who work in these institutions and in the different organisations, because I think we are all likely to have the best possible measures for the most vulnerable children. We'll never be able to guard ourselves a hundred percent against something that wouldn't happen. We will never be able to regulate everything, but at least we can do what we can to create the best possible network, to provide the best possible care and supervision for the most vulnerable and to postpone the young. That's what they eat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e394	Authority in relation to another person's life is something you exercise in many ways. Being the safe adult in life of young people who have experienced as many of those who end up in such institutions is quite important. What I really think is that the consideration of this matter in the committee has revealed is that there are a lot of people who are going to have the job as safe adults, who don't feel safe enough on the legislation. This does not mean that the legislation is wrong. That means that we haven't spent enough resources on the young people who need it all, most of all, and that we haven't spent enough resources teaching people and making them safe on the legislation either. Actually, I think it's a little bit strange that it's the parties that are most concerned with combating overcrowding, power abuse and the criminal jungle, that have the most faith that coercion and regulation will get us out of the problems we're talking about here. No matter how many examples you refer to here, you have authority to save lives – no matter how the legislation is made. If you experience threatening situations, there is nothing to say if the legislation relating to the use of coercion in child protection institutions is too unclear; saving lives is actually a duty for all people. Some of the examples that were mentioned, I think, are more a curious assessment of the legislation than that you really want to give trust to these professionals. Nothing really indicates that any of the situations we have experienced could have been avoided if we had a stricter code. Nor is it very much that shows that many young people are much better off being subjected to a lot of coercion. Suffering if the president also thinks that children are getting better at being beaten, I don't share that opinion, because I think coercion and the experience of defeat are something that doesn't make children better children. I actually think it's part of destroying the marine image that you should build up with them. What the treatment of this case has revealed is that all parties in this room have a collective responsibility that we haven't spent enough resources on those kids who absolutely need it the most, and that we haven't taken seriously how much it actually requires to help the kids who have gotten the worst out of life, to get back on track. That's not what we in the Left do by exerting more coercion and having more rules, but by safe, good adults who know what space they have to act to get their lives back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e405	We have many new challenges in child protection. It's a complicated and complex problem, where maybe we don't have enough competence. Therefore, unlike the representative, Olemic Thommess, I believe that with the new challenges it is absolutely necessary that we increase our competence and that we need to research what we are doing in the field of child protection, so that we see that the measures we are taking are working. I would also like to say something about the role of the county council in this matter, because here we have received feedback that the county councillors interpret this differently. When cases are brought before the county council, you get different feedback, and that's a problem for child protection. It is therefore very important – I would say to the Council of State – that there is also a shock to the statesmen, so that it is equal to competence and equal understanding of the law and regulation. It becomes unsustainable when the state assesses this completely differently. As far as the state's economy is concerned, it's not up to our Council of State, it's up to another Council of State. But it is clear that over a long time we have seen that the supervisory system of the statesmen does not work well enough because they do not have the money to do so. You have to look at that, too. It may well be that the county departments around the country give priority to areas other than just children and child protection. Here I believe that the Council of State must also engage in a dialogue. Here you have to work across departments if you are to get a comprehensive package of measures for children who are struggling. I also believe that child protection does not go quickly enough into the first line service. We also get feedback all the time. Indeed, there has been a great deal of economic activity that has guided measures in the field of child protection, not the needs of children. I believe that the municipalities have a much better economy with this government, so it is now important that child protection and politicians around the country take responsibility and focus on child protection. We're talking about tragic events and killings. In one of these cases, a child who has been in an asylum reception in Norway for four years was actually involved, so it is clear that we have to do several things in many areas. I also think it is very sad that we in Norway now have a sentence of a 15-year-old – he was sentenced to prison for killing. I believe that this is unacceptable, so we need to step up efforts in several areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e418	It seems to me that we are talking a little past each other in this matter, as well as that of course there is real disagreement. But the disagreement is not whether it should be coerced or not. So, as the Council of State explained a little while ago, today we have forcibles and restraints, such as searching rooms, checking mail, controlling movements, etc. The point is that this should be linked to each youth and the assessment of the situation, and not be considered as collective punishment. On the other hand, there is nothing to prevent an institution from having clear and clear rules of procedure that apply to all, and a clear and clear practice of them. The representative of the Thommess is amazed that the Council of State does not meet the opposition in this matter. It's hard to understand. It is precisely in this room that the Council of State has ensured that legislation and legislation are constantly being enforced and improved, and that quality assurances are being made by the institutions. The opposition refers to feedback from those who work in the field of child protection. But those feedbacks are actually more nuanced than that. I spoke not long ago with a young environmental worker who has worked in child protection for many years and who has worked with the worst young people. He said it this way: the problem is not that we don't have a regulation and the ability to go in with coercion, the problem is that all of us who work in child protection may not be safe enough to meet the individual, to assess the individual situation and the individual, and that we may not always be safe enough to provide care, love and trust for these young people, who have such a difficult background.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e430	First, I want to say that I agree with May Hansen, who says that we need more and broader research. I am a little surprised by the visit to me regarding that I should not have seen this. The right has clearly proposed more for research in this field; we have done so on the current year's government budget, and we will come back to this year's government budget with proposals for more funding for research. I would also like to stress that there is every reason to go into the breadth of the research that is going on. We believe that today's research is too much focused on the state's own projects and the state's own approach, and that, in relation to a wide range of private actors, we have a number of potential research projects that should have been addressed, projects that would provide us with a much better basis for working on these issues. So to today's text, you have to be "safe adults," says the representative, Skei Grande. Yes, so agree, so agree, I must say. And to Tove Karoline Knutsen's post: The person she had talked to said that it wasn't certain that you were safe enough to give love and care. It's also something I think you can recognize in. And then the question is, what is it that creates security? What creates the framework that makes you work safely and know what you have to deal with, that creates predictability, and that allows you to give a message to a youth and know that it is being done? Well, at least it's not that you have a great deal of discretion, so that after a message you can be followed up by the complainants, the supervisory board, contacting a lawyer, a new appeal round – long rounds of parliamentary meetings back and forth on how to deal with this. I also want to remind you that very many of the people we're talking about are quite busy in this kind of game. In my time as a defender, I have had clients who have had twenty, thirty, maybe forty meeting points with police and prosecution authorities, and who truly have a track record that shows that they're going out on most of us when it comes to dealing with public systems, whether it's prosecution or child protection. This is something they can, this is something they know to use. And what's the problem is that you have a sense, which creates uncertainty in the system. It will always be, and it shall be, but the space must not be so large that it undermines the security between the adults and the child. And then finally, we know that the practice of the supervisory authority is different from the state to the state. It is not good, and a tightening of the law will also help to improve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e445	There might be limits to what you can get to say from the Parliament's pulpit, even if you come from the Left. Then I refer to what Mr. Skei Grande said about what the President should have said. Of course, I take this very far away from – and that is not what the president said. The representative Skei Grande said that it's strange that we in the liberal parties go in to support coercion. I can understand her point of view, from the point of view she might have. But some of us also think about the others about the child protection institutions. Not everyone in an institution has provocative and violent behavior. Not everyone in a child-rescue institution has drug problems. In fact, there are quite small children and young people who need love, and who need care, because there may have been shortages in their lives. Then I am terribly upset when I hear the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen say that the employees are not «safe enough» to give love and care. Isn't that why these children are in a child protection institution, to have the love and care they can't have, or are unable to receive, in their own home? Then it's not free for me to ask myself: what do the employees of these child protection institutions do, if they are not safe enough to provide love and care, and thus also safe enough to set limits for the children? I ask myself that question, and I must say that I am as concerned now as I was before I came here today. However, I would like to thank you for a debate, it is good to put this on the map. I just hope, as I said, that we can also do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e456	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 472]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e476	It's a basic premise for the school we have, that all students regardless of gender and social background should have equivalent and adapted training. There are long lines in school in this regard, and there is also a basic premise in what we have now learned to know as the Knowledge Lift in recent years. And so is what Professor Nordahl has now confirmed once again, that girls are doing better than boys. We have a lot of examples of that. I take my examples from my wandering through Norwegian school. For example, you're going to be. Stopped at a school of highly experienced and skilled female teachers reporting their concern for the boys — because they are motivated and skilled teachers, and because they see what they see. I think we can find many of these messages. I also think this is an area where it's very important to have a common reality description. That's the main reason why I'm promoting this interpellation, because the interpellation is the form of the Storting to be able to get exactly that. And then we have other arenas where we can make suggestions, and we can also do the priorities that are to be given, both in terms of the need for rules and in terms of bets and crowns and ears. But to get us a little bit into the reality description, as Professor Nordahl sees it – just briefly: he shows that girls have significantly better grades in Norwegian, math and English, that the differences have increased, and that there is a great variation in the boys' results. Many people do it well, but at the same time, many people don't do it as well. It also seems to be an implication for many boys who are struggling, that high school dropouts are there, and that there is an increased likelihood of developing behavioural problems and difficulties in getting through to work later. Then we have a teacher's assessment of the situation. Guys seem to show less work and less motivation than girls, and the teacher's assessment is also that girls show more social skills than boys. The student assessment is that girls feel that they are better off and have a better relationship with teachers and with their fellow students. So the question is, why has it become like this? I don't think that's an answer to that. I think there's a lot of reasons for this. I think at least we have to look for reasons in how we organize the school, and how we make sure you meet boys. I can take a very small example – that's what you'll call anectodic information: I belong to a generation that can't be said to have had a padded growth. I have both fallen and struck. I have in games like Indians and white got a woodpecker that stopped right there and not a little bit further down, and therefore I still see useful. I learned then that woodpeckers are something to be taken care of. And when one falls down from a tree, one falls down from a tree. But then all of a sudden we are living at a time when we even have this famous European Union toy bar directive, where it says that in suitable playgrounds, one must not have a stand that is such that small children can stick their tongues on them when it is cold, because then they freeze, and it goes wrong. And they have to fall in such a way that they fall on a sand bag. But if you were to fall on the street, on concrete, you are not the responsibility of the public. Then you sit and wonder about the same situation that our excellent school historian, Professor Telhaug, has said in a debate, that what in the world do we have left of responsibilities, rights and duties at a time when we have basically set aside Protestant duty? What are the normal reasons why we're going along with this, and that we care? Let me also say that I have been to a school, an excellent school, where you had padded the trees, probably for the reason that you were afraid that there would suddenly come some lawyers with the parents at a little unearthed aching on the jaw. We have a total landscape, and the school lives in that total landscape. I'm not going to go into that whole landscape, because it's getting too big, but I'm going to focus back on school. It could also be that exuberant boys get more attention than those I would call the quiet girls, the ones that are just quiet. It could be that the boys also get negative attention. When I then take my experiences, reading, thinking, reflection, connected with life experience into this, and rewinding back to an old-fashioned folk school that I myself have gone out of -- I've been to a 50th anniversary -- and where we were mixed, and see how many who had it all right, regardless of the gender, there is at least one factor that stands out. That factor has even underlined modern research through the major study at the University of Stavanger, the one that was first called Connect, but now called Respect, and it is that it is essentially becoming calmer, more peaceful and more concentrated when teachers are professionally safe and when they are safe as adults. Therefore, I think one important premise to approach this – not enough, but an important premise – is that we make sure that we have a teacher training that makes teachers good. That's why the Left has long thought, and I'm going to repeat it this time too, that we have to eliminate the general teacher training we have now. We need to introduce a five-year master's degree, we need to put in place a practical, professional, education, where the relationship to the field of practice is strong, good and important. And it's not just building a year on top of something, it's fundamentally reforming. I am also fully convinced that it is necessary to do what is now happening in our neighbouring country, Sweden, where the teaching promise is introduced, which is a systematic, competent further training. This further training is such that you can fill both your skills and your pedagogical skills – and with a subject I am aiming at both theoretical subjects and practical subjects. I am also convinced that the methodology, i.e. the type of work at school, must become much more practical. And if it does, it might be like these three female teachers I met told me, that they had taken the consequences of it in their school -- how they found out to male teachers, and they found out about social activity, a little bit more outrageous social activity, which made the boys feel better. That was their practical approach. It shows that the school has a considerable leeway when those who are there feel that they have it, grasp it, and take power and responsibility in the playroom. Then we can take a teacher I met somewhere in the South, who had put the entire high school curriculum into a huge role-playing game. He had done it so gifted, and spent five years on it. In a role-playing game, you take out quite a number of legends. You can end up with two in math at the end, but you can end up with six in role playing. You won't be okay in role playing if you don't bring in a 'buddy' that doesn't hang out with you, you actually have to, and it's kind of cool that you're doing something. You can do this in a bad way, and then it'll just be a joke. But if you're a gifted teacher -- and there's a lot of them who actually do this pedagogical grip; I'm not saying that everyone should do it -- you have a grip that can sit and that gives a structure. That structure creates both social commitment and learning commitment. So I've become more and more concerned about something an experienced teacher in Oslo said to me, and as I see when I go to Norwegian school. This teacher is at Nordmarka school, it was hot 40 years ago Hakkloa primary school, in Oslo. Today, it's a school for kids who are very unbeatable, it's for kids who have gone to ADHD medicine, and it's the most boys. The methodology of the Nordmarka school is that the boys are draining energy on snowmobiles and cutting trees. When it's done, the theory goes down. And when I've met some of these guys again later as head of the school board, they said, we were basically on the side. So we came into this arrangement, which was very good.And now I'm sitting here and I'm the head of the school, and the school I'm the head of the school is going to be fine, I'm going to be the best in town. Then one saw how the race that could have gone wrong was turned upside down. The answer is good and motivated teachers, but also what this teacher at Nordmarka School said to me. He said that in everything you work for now, and that I know that you believe in – you will make sure that we master things practical, all the skills of the Knowledge promise, you will make sure that mathematics, Norwegian and language sit theoretical – you will remember that the practical-esthetic subjects have a meaning in themselves, but also a meaning as a pedagogical tool to ensure that other subjects, subjects of a different character, go right in. Some of it fits in with what I would call my own anecdotic experience, that is. life experience. That's why I think we should never forget that subjects and disciplines that are practical are demanding completely different skills. Those skills make you feel like you're mastering something. And when you master it, there are many other things that are demanding going in. That's why this left's easy revision of the promise of knowledge, it's not alarming, it's: take care of the practical-esthetic subjects, not because we're not going to take care of all the other ambitions we have, but because they're giving something to someone who doesn't get what they're going to have today. It also provides a educational tool for taking things that are more demanding. My personal example is that I'm happy in numbers, but mathematics came into my head of a math dresser who played through the textbook of Tamb's Lyche, which was just called Over abilities I and II, in the form of a kind of playful narrative. If I hadn't met this teacher, I'm not sure I'd translated the numbers into letters. He was playful, and he was almost boyish in style. He did it completely megacult. With this interpellation, I have raised a topic for reflection in an area that I think we can meet and reflect on in the main hall. Because neither of us is worthy that we don't make sure that as many kids as possible, whether they are boys or girls, get out of school well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e508	It is a Norwegian education policy objective that all elephants should have equal opportunities for happiness. That is why I thought that the representative Dørum took on an important theme when he pointed out that there has been a difference over time between boys and girls when it relates to the quality of the central subject in the school. In the basic sphere, there are clear differences between the characters of boys and girls both when they relate to the characteristics of positions and when they relate to the characteristics of exams. The differences are highest in home knowledge, CRL, Norwegian primary objectives and page measures written, and much less in mathematics, where the girls averaged 0.1 points better than the boys. In 2006, on average, the girls had four base-points more than the boys when they went out of the base. Basic credits are then the sum of grades in eleven subjects. The good guys got 42 on average, the girls 46. The difference has been stable for the last five years, but he's evolved over time. The difference between boys and girls is less in the secondary school than in the elementary school, but still there is a difference in favor of the girls, also in the colleges where the majority of the elephants are boys. Then it should be added that although both boys and girls in Norway are enjoying themselves at school, Thomas Nordahl points out that this is also a small gender difference in favor of the girls – girls like something better than boys. At the same time, there is little difference between girls and boys in their view of the role of education and the importance of education. Both sexes think that education is important, without regard for what one is going to do in the future. An investigation shows that 96 pst. Of both sexes, it's important to get good grades. In spite of this, there are considerable differences in labour input and performance. The central question is why guys think that education is as important as the girls I think, and seemingly is motivated for schoolwork, but yet it doesn't get that good results. Thus, it is well documented that girls do better than boys, both in the primary school and in the further training. On the other hand, we have less knowledge of the reasons for this. Researchers have pointed to different reasons why girls cut right than boys. There is considerable evidence that some moves at the Norwegian school day can contribute to less learning among boys. Research carried out in the classroom situation shows that many Norwegian classrooms are characterized by unstructured teaching, unclear rules, unclear requirements and receive feedback. There are findings that suggest that this may be particularly unfortunate for some groups of guys. However, there is little support for a claim that is sometimes made in public, that female teachers have a negative impact on the learning and well-being of the boys. Some also claim that expectations that boys are losers and cannot adapt to the school can influence the motivation of the boys and threaten their own abilities. International studies show that such prejudices specifically frame boys from low-income homes with low levels of education. So there is no clear explanation for the difference between the performance of boys and girls in the training. But it seems that gender differences occur and grow strong, among other things. because many guys don't get the basic skills they need at an early stage. This leads to lower motivation for schoolwork and fewer chances of further happiness in education and work. It is worth noting in the debate that it is not sex, but the education of parents — that is, social background — that has the clearest connection with learning outcomes for students. While the average difference that goes on sex, that's four base points, the difference in the score for elephants with parents with more education than non-performing education and elephants, is eleven points. So it's a much stronger relationship with the social background. But that means that if you look at the relationship between social background and sex, we have a very big challenge when it comes to boys with parents with a lower social background, and the results. When it comes to what we're going to do, I think we're going to have to think in the long term as well as in the short term. First of all, we need more knowledge about why boys and girls get different benefits from school. NOVA has been commissioned to produce a knowledge overview of reasons for gender differences in education. When the NOVA report is ready, in December, we have a better basis for moving forward and launching new research and follow-up, and using the already existing knowledge. There is a need for more research into the link between missing performances from boys and school as a system and culture. This means that one needs to look at the professional content, working methods and teaching activities, at the role and competence of the teacher, at the efforts of the traineeship and at the culture of the individual school. We're already doing a lot to improve the situation. The introduction of the Knowledge Lift places particular emphasis on basic skills. Basic skills are particularly important because they are a prerequisite for learning in all other subjects. If you can't understand and use it, it becomes very, very difficult to learn mathematics, English or other subjects. Research shows that it's often where it fails for the boys. Weak basic skills lead to poor results later, one that drags it through the entire course and out into adult life. Then we've started a more systematic work in the last few years with early efforts when problems are discovered, not least to boys. This work is in progress in the schools, and should be a core task in the years to come. I would particularly like to mention the 'Gi room for reading' strategy, where guys and reading are on the agenda. We know that there is a lot of work in general at school to increase the weight of reading, but also other core subjects, such as mathematics, the first years of childhood. Fourth, we know that research shows that the years before school starts are very important for the learning of the students in the future. That's why kindergarten is like the arena in a special position, perhaps the most important thing today for it to take you into school, as well as what you're bringing with you from parents. With the situation we now have, where a special part of the boys and girls go to kindergarten, the quality, the ability to stimulate the language and the work that can lead boys – and girls – at what they meet in the early school years, means a lot. It actually gives us a great opportunity to improve the work of the years to come. And then we also have to see if there's any moves at the school we've created that have to change. Does the school provide enough room for practical knowledge? Everyone needs to know that they're mastering something in school life. Maybe there's too few such possibilities for meddling for guys? We need to discuss whether the school should be more targeted at those students who have strength in the field, so that their skills and characteristics are valued in the school, and that they experience chiselling. I'm, like the representative Dørum, busy with the practical aesthetics and how important they are in the Norwegian school. The sixth point I'm going to pick up is the teacher's role. What we know from very extensive research is that the teacher's competence and the teacher's role in the school is entirely decisive for the student's learning outcomes. Therefore, for years to come, we are forced to have a systematic focus on the teacher, on the teacher's continuing education, on a new general teacher's education, and on the teacher's status and role in society. It will play a role for boys and girls in the school in the future. Finally, I also have an arr, right under the eye, from my childhood – for my part, after a brick, not a spear. I have to admit that I do not know systematically whether a little rough childhood has a positive effect on boys' results and schooling, but I do not want to exclude that how a person experiences growth can mean something for the later schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e548	When I, just as the Council of State allowed me to use anecdotal information, it was to reflect a little bit questioning. It's because I've been to some good schools, how good teachers, for example. have used open-air life as a pedagogy. Then they're suddenly told by scientists that they're essentially not going to. Then I listen more to the teachers who tell me they've got results with kids than to those who think they shouldn't do what they're doing -- especially when the teachers have been doing it for 15 years, they're proud of what they can do, and they can tell me about it. The point must be that research comes straight into everyday life, so that it becomes practical and useful, as the Council of State says on behalf of NOVA. While we're finding out more about something that's complex, I think it's very important to give the dose of what we know is important. We know that teachers who are professionally competent, educationally good and safe adults mean a difference. We know that. We know that if we want to give priority – debates come later in Stortinget – we can provide teachers with systematic further training that makes it really state and that it shines off everything that is going on. We know that. We know that our neighboring country Sweden is starting the teacher's vow from 2008. We know that. We know that Finns for almost 40 years have systematically invested in a teacher training course that has given the teaching profession status. They've done a lot of what the Council of State had to do, that's to catch up with those who are struggling, early, by giving skilled specialised educators space in school from second zero in a young person's school. We know that. We know that they have put a great deal of effort into a sparkling good both social education and career guidance throughout the general teacher reform that they were doing in practice almost 40 years ago. I'm not going to compare Finnish and Norwegian school, because the school reflects society, but in the efforts of the teachers, I'm absolutely convinced that they've done something completely right. They've been lifting something systematically over a long time. So I also think – in the same way that we need sparkling good realists, and have to take immediate action to do so, just as we have to take a look at the professional subjects in high school – that the practical-esthetic subjects in primary school must have a place by virtue of what they give of practical skills, and what they do for the Council of State took up, that is, the opportunity to get the experience of getting this done, that is, mastering, when you meet all the practical skills – read, write, calculate, etc. – as you walk through this landscape. Let me say that as a young, female pupil councillor in the 12-13s said it: Gutta's better off – that's my translation – if you make sure that what's boring comes from the first moment, and is not thrown at them like a shock after a few years. Then it'll quickly become uncultivated. If you start with what's in my childhood hot pugging, and that in modern Norwegian is called memory training, and do this very early, then I think you incorporate some habits and cultures that help those who are struggling a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e557	Let me say again that at one point I think we see the same challenge, which we are forced to have a systematic bet on over a long time, simply the teacher and the teacher's role in the school. The teacher is the most important adult person in a school. And both the general teacher training, the status and recruitment of the teaching profession and the possibility of continuing and continuing training within the profession will be important for years to come. So I'm going to say from this chair that outdoor life can be good pedagogy, in case there's any doubt about it. Fortunately, there is a lot of good practical pedagogy and learning in the Norwegian school. Let me expand that very side of the discussion a little bit. I also get very clear signals and feedback from teachers, from parents and boys I meet at school, that the school must meet them with practical skills better than he does today. It's a complicated debate when you start thinking about how to change the school to make it better. To mention three points: the local freedom of action contained in the Knowledge Lift may not be used well enough. There is a significant increase in local freedom of action to adapt training through the Knowledge Lift. There may be a track to follow. And of course it may also be that in the future we will have to look at the trade union arrangement, whether adjustments are to be made there to meet the practicalally correct students, who are often good. And of course, there's a question about the pedagogical practice, that is, how learning happens. For my part, I know that I am among those who depend on looking, putting on and experiencing to learn well, and I think there are a lot of people in society who are. I share Dørum's commitment to these questions, and they're among the things I'm going to work on in the future. It's positive that girls do well at school, but it's a challenge that there's such a big difference, especially in some subjects, between girls and boys.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e566	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Dørum, for putting this important issue on the Storting agenda. Then I would like to take the opportunity to welcome the Minister of Knowledge to the Stortinget and the Grand Hall. There is no doubt that we have major challenges in Norwegian school. Although I am proud of a school that gathers everyone, regardless of background, religion, lay and skin color, in one classroom, with many capable teachers and many motivated students, there are unfortunately some who are a little less motivated, a little less educational and a little less hard-working. Last year’s studies of Norwegian high school students have shown that boys leave school with lower grades, drop out of secondary education, and take shorter studies at university or college. Over the last ten years, we've seen that the character gap between boys and girls has doubled. We can't borrow back and be satisfied until everyone goes out of ten years of school with basic and social competence at the bottom. Last Wednesday I was at the conference of the Oslo Crafts and Industry Association. There was great frustration that students and apprentices have poor basic skills when they start vocational training, or get into business apprenticeships. According to company managers, students come to those who can't read job descriptions and manuals, and most are boys. In Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, ‘... and no one was left. Early efforts for lifelong learning’, we went deeper into the challenges of social differences in inheritance. We've too much accepted that someone has fallen out of school. There are many more boys than girls who have learning and/or behavioural problems. Two out of three students who receive special education are boys. The main message contains a number of proposals to prevent the reproduction of social differences. Thomas Nordahl, professor of pedagogy, suggests in an article that today's schools and curricula are not designed for boys. Several teachers, both male and female, support this. Today's elementary school curriculum has taken from boys many arenas and motivational factors. More theory and less gym has led to the troubled boy bodies becoming more troubled, and the quiet, nice girls can sit even more still. These girls have also fallen out, but it's not shown to that extent. Often the boys attract attention and take the attention of the girls by creating trouble and turmoil in the classroom. After Reform 97, the trend of boys losing school was reinforced. Responsibility for your own learning and creative project work has gone beyond the boys. The promise of knowledge has only worked for one year, and it takes several years for us to see the results of this reform, which a unanimous growing-up stood behind. But it has not been said that we cannot make small changes along the way – for the best for both the boys and the quiet girls. I don't believe in a school with girls and boys. I think the boys are good at dealing with girls both in math classes and – not least – in the gym. I also think the girls have a good time playing football with and against boys and working with boys in front of the PC. Regardless of gender and age, mastering is important. Having something to look forward to is fun, and you're good at, gives motivation to work with things that are less fun. The basic skills have become more important with the Knowledge Lift – everyone has to learn the basics, and then there will be room to cultivate their talents. More ICT into the Norwegian school has given the boys a new arena, the development of digital learning materials is at full speed in the future, and the schools have more PCs available for the students. I think it'll be more important in the Knowledge promise to find new arenas in school everyday, both for boys and for girls. Who said the boys could just sneak in the loop and play football? Throughout the course of education, we meet women: in kindergarten as preschool teachers, in kindergarten as class managers and in youth and in secondary education. But as the Minister of Knowledge said, there is no research that suggests that women have a negative impact on the learning of boys, but the boys prefer to have contact with male teachers in personal situations. I first got male teachers to deal with when I started my childhood. I only had women in kindergarten and almost only women in kindergarten. At the early stages, something started to happen, when we had teachers and teachers who were men. I don't think there are any radical solutions to get the boys to go to school. I think many small things can help make teaching more varied – for the benefit of both the girls and the boys. Among other things, I think that much of the key is in teacher training. I think men want more to specialize and teach in just two or three subjects. It could be one of the answers to why I met male teachers first at childhood. The government is constantly working on teacher training, and I hope and believe that the theme we are debating today will also have a central place in the further work on teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e603	I would also like to first thank the interpellant for addressing a problem that is very important. It is important to focus more on the matter, because you can see that the negative trend has not stopped. That is why it is important to put this on the agenda. There is a lot of evidence that the changes that Norwegian school has experienced, especially in the 1990s, have resulted in a school where boys learn less than before. It is difficult to find a clear and concrete causal link that will make it possible to correct the errors that have obviously been made. It is therefore necessary to research more in this area, but a little bit of vision I think we can nevertheless allow ourselves. First of all, there might be a connection between the willingness of boys to learn – because I assume that it's the willingness to learn and not the intelligence of boys – and the composition of the teacher's staff in primary school. There are fewer and fewer men who find it attractive to work in primary school, and it reduces the number of role models for boys. Secondly, there has been a major change in basic education methods, from being well-structured and classroom-based to becoming more project-oriented and making new demands on the student’s ability to take responsibility for their own learning. There may be a tendency for boys to prefer to have a slightly less independent method of education than is currently widely used in school. Thirdly, new pedagogics, which are now also being implemented in the construction of new schools, may seem negative for all students, but especially for boys. Today, when schools with several hundred students and only three classrooms — very large classrooms — and a few group rooms — are being built, a little noise and perhaps concentration problems are almost encouraged. Fourth, the problem of unrest in Norwegian school is greater than ever. There is little doubt that unrest is growing alarm, and often boys are actors when unrest takes over in the classroom. Many of the challenges in school that make boys lose in the knowledge competition between boys and girls may well be quite general challenges in Norwegian school. However, the problem is that action is difficult to take quickly enough. It takes time to see the consequences of political decisions at school. Therefore, it is important that the Council of State keeps the tab much higher on these issues than the Government has now done. In order to provide advice to a relatively new State Council, this must be an important area of rapid response, both to ensure a better knowledge base for primary school education and in general to increase the level of knowledge in the Norwegian school. The interpellant was involved in just some of the important issues by experiencing a completely different way of running the school. He has also shown some good examples that in some areas something works that perhaps traditionally some professors and others, whom he was in, do not seem to be positive, but that gives good results in the learning situation. So students who have had challenges with a new way of getting training get much better results. Instead of getting on the wrong side, they end up on the good and positive side, and they become important resources in society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e622	Two out of three students who receive special education at school are boys. Research on, inter alia: Professor Thomas Nordahl of the University of Hedmark demonstrates that there is a significant difference between boys and girls, in boys' disfavor, in grades in all basic subjects. Even in mathematics, which has traditionally been considered to be the subject of boys, the girls perform significantly better, even though the differences are not as big there as in other subjects. Have we got a school that's better adapted to girls, and that's capable of motivating them better than boys? Or is it even worse: are we going to get a school that also has lower expectations for boys' performance than for girls, and which thus does not give the same opportunities to succeed, regardless of sex? The interpellant therefore addresses a very important question. Both of the last two reforms in the Norwegian school, the Knowledge and Reform 97, point out that both content, organisation, teaching materials and working methods should ensure the learning of girls and boys as well. If the single school has also failed at this point, it is very serious and resources need to be deployed to find the causes. The Committee has, in fact, already focused its attention on this challenge. Int. S. No 164 for 2006-2007, the Right took an initiative to which the entire Committee agreed to say the following: ‘The Committee believes that there is reason to research more on the learning of basic skills and learning difficulties, both in order to elucidate why boys seem to have a lower starting point for school than girls, but also to look at other issues in the field.’ That boys perform significantly worse than girls is challenging. The problem is not that the girls are doing well, but that the boys are struggling. It's also very interesting that the variation or spread of results is much greater for boys than for girls. So there's a lot of guys who are doing well, but there's also a lot of people outside. At 66 pst. by those who receive special education are boys, corresponding to that result. Learning is something the students stand for themselves. It requires commitment, motivation and work. The school must be able to find out what stimulates the individual the best. There are differences between boys and girls. Research points to the fact that girls are more motivated by mastering for themselves, while boys are more likely to show what they are mastering. Guys will compete, and thus need stronger external structures to learn. The trend towards a lack of structure and individualised teaching with a great responsibility for self-learning, emphasising still-sitting and verbal communication is therefore not necessarily in line with boys’ motives and motivational needs. Research can help to shed light on this issue. I also note the focus of the Council of State on the need for research to bring new knowledge into the problem. The school shall and must be an arena where all groups shall have equivalent chances of success. That's why we can't sit and watch a development where half of the students have less chance of success. The answer may not be easy, but it has to exist. Guys will mature later. They need other feedback and other confirmation of what they do than girls. One must simply be able to ask if the school has evolved so that many boys don't find their arena there, and that we take this so for granted that we no longer question the effect of it. We're all different, and children need a lot of different role models in their learning situation. It also applies in society in general. We hear about some business leaders who have done quite well without education, but there is no doubt that those who choose that path to future success will get it tougher in the future. We're going into a knowledge-based society. Without basic skills, it's going to be problematic. The school must therefore create an overall environment where everyone can find inspiration. The research clearly shows that the school has done better for the girls than for the boys. The differences in performance may have a lot of reasons, but at least we can't settle down with a school that doesn't have the ability to stimulate everyone for action. The interpellant has addressed a question to which much attention should be paid. We can't accept that boys are getting worse opportunities to succeed in school than girls, and that this evolves into a kind of truth that we're going to evolve further. Then we need to find answers as to why it is, and take action to correct it. Today's interpellation and the committee's remark from in ours may be the starting point for us to set ourselves some goals for when development is actually going to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e649	The interpellant focuses on a very important theme. Research has recently shown that boys consistently make things worse in school than girls in all subjects except gymnastics, that the difference between boys and girls in character in Norwegian, math and English has become twice as large in ten years. This negative development cannot be justified by social background, I believe. In addition to boys hanging out in most schools, they are also worse off and have more problems than girls. At the same time, we know that school has challenges that boys get more attention in a teaching situation than girls. I think it's a big problem that boys get attention from negative behavior both in kindergarten and in school. Another perspective is that there are few men in kindergartens and in high school. This is a significant problem. This means that boys can go all the way to high school before they have men as role models to deal with in educational contexts. It is therefore important to increase efforts to recruit men to work in kindergartens and in primary school. Research shows that the absence of men can lead to problem behaviour for boys. I've been thinking a little bit back at my own school. If money is a success factor – which I don't think it is – it's at least the way it is today that the boys in my class were most worried, most active and most creative, and who jumped out of windows, who make the most money. At least they have succeeded with something. The school has changed. I'm a boy's mother, and I think it's a big challenge that men actually think that working with small children, not in kindergarten, not in high school. There's a lot of teachers who say themselves. The modern school responsible for your own learning fits girls best. There is a trend that has been visible for many years, but after Reform 97 it has intensified. The school has become theory-oriented, it is one-dimensional and slightly varied, and the electoral fields also disappeared with Reform 97. Reform 94 focused more on the theory of the professions. And it's a fact that boys make up, as others have been here, 66 pst. by users of special education in Norway. Boys who don't master are unobtrusive and aggressive and thus show a visible behavioral deviation. The girls get involved and use invisibility as a strategy. It's not a problem that the girls are doing well – it's great – but it's a problem that so many boys are struggling in our school. This has to be done. It's also very important in a gender equality perspective. We see that gender counts, but social background and expectations and follow-up from parents and teachers are also very important. In addition, research shows that traditional classroom instruction only applies to about 20 pst. by the students. Most people will learn more if we use a more varied form of teaching, which many people have discussed earlier in the debate. I am very pleased that Minister of Science Bård Vegard Solhjell has already announced that the relationship between theory and practice in school needs to be improved, and I look forward to him coming back with more on this. When the school day gets longer, there should be more time for physical activity. In addition, the government has introduced fruit and vegetables in a number of schools. There is a close link between physical activity, nutrition and learning. With more gym and a good diet, we improve the assumptions that good learning can take place. The main message through the Storing Message ‘... and no one was left’ is early action. It is about pre-school children with weak language development, students who struggle with motivation and learning, or adults who lack basic skills. Early effort means taking into account the research that has long been shown to us, namely that both early childhood and early school years are crucial for learning and development. Lack of childcare facilities and diversity of competences and quality in kindergartens are some of the reasons why children meet school with different starting points. That's why it's so important that we're now at full speed to get full babysitting. SV wants a school that helps balance social differences. Low expectations and low systematics in the learning work of basic training affect the students. We need to change this, and the school needs to follow up on measures. Keywords are clear learning requirements, adapted training, good follow-up procedures, and homework.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e677	Let me first also welcome the new Council of State to Stortinget. We look forward to tough debates and good cooperation relations on what we can do. Then I would like to thank the inter-pellant and the citizen for raising this debate. It provides an opportunity to reflect on and light up a theme that is important. It is serious when we look at the figures that Professor Thomas Nordahl of Hedmark University has come up with. I hope that the Council of State will take along the recordings that come here, and follow them up. I read an interview with some boys at the Utleira School in Trøndelag. They tried to find answers as to why the boys are slowing down compared to the girls. They think it's important for a lot of guys to be cool and show up in the team of friends, and then not necessarily good grades are something to gamble with. It's cooler to be good at the football field than to be good at math. Guys who do well at school are easily perceived as down-dead, they say, but if you're good at both the football field and at school, that's okay. Girls get more accepted in the group if they get good grades. Now this statement from the students cannot be seen as a research-based description, but it is interesting, because it describes something about how the students themselves feel. Most of all, it also says something about us facing a complex problem that involves much more, I think, than just the school. The debate on the different outcomes of boys and girls in school is interesting, among other things. because it concerns an important theme that has been at issue in all gender equality debates over the last 30 years. Are boys and girls the same? I think the situation we're experiencing at school today gives a more nuanced picture of it. Kids aren't the same. How much this difference between children is about sex or not, is a big discussion. Some girls are more equal to what many define as boys, and some boys are more equal to what many define as girls. In my opinion, this is about children having different characteristics, and that this is not necessarily related to sex. Statistics are good, but I'm a little worried about the debate we've had today, where so many people say, guys are, and girls are. I don't think we can take the big discussion right now. But one thing is certain: children can and should have equal opportunities to succeed. That is why there is good reason to consider how school life has been set up today. I often think that there is no revolutionary grip or new reforms to bring about a desired change. I remember, for example. when the Harry Potter books came. This gave the impression of many children, perhaps especially boys, being literate. Finally, there came some books that both boys and girls read, simply because they wanted to, and that was interesting. A simple approach that allows children to read more fully what they are interested in, more than standard texts, can actually produce results. Another element that is affected is the relationship between theory and practice in school. Many have pointed out that the school is too theoretical, and especially perhaps in the youth. It's too little practical and physical activity. It's about how it's taught in the subject, as the council said, but also how the school is organized. It's interesting that when the government now spends $276 million. If you give the smallest children five extra hours a week, you are mainly the subject of the theory. I think more practical and less theoretical hours, a clearer week plan and more physical activity could make school life better for both boys and girls – but not for everyone. There is a danger when we bigotry politicians face different issues. We are so gripped by this problem that it blizzards over, and we end up in the other ditch. We must not make the girls who thrive, and their profits, a problem. As Haldis Holst of the Education Association says: ‘We must not construct a contrast between a girls’ premise school and a boys’ premise school. [[...]] We have a common challenge in creating a good school for both the girls who are struggling, and for the boys who are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e709	First, I would also like to welcome the Council of State to Stortinget. It's nice to see him here. Then I will focus on today's interpellant, Dørum. He puts an interesting and important theme on the agenda. People are busy with school. There's been a lot about school in the newspapers lately. Much of what goes on is a topic today. We'll hear different variations over it. From my own locality, Gudbrandsdölen Dagningen, GD, I have the following headlines in the last few days: ‘May call home when they say ‘even’’. This was scrupulously followed up the next day in a chronicle with the title: ‘Fail-out pedagogue’ I also want to mention a full page with the title: ‘Youth advice against dropping the school’ In this case, the youth community was engaged. The capital papers are the same, with headlines such as ‘Guys are school losers’ and ‘Femischools and stupid boys’. This shows that people are engaged. At least that's good. Our own state council has also stated that the school needs to be more practical, so that it feels meaningful. I think it is very important that the Council of State makes such signals. School has become more and more theoretical. But it has also become our society. We live in a post-industrialized time, and the school becomes a place where the students are going to go out into the world and get a job in a more and more knowledge-based society. In areas where it was possible to get a job a few years ago, there is currently no possibility. The professions actually don't exist anymore. The school age seizes a lot of the students' time, so it's reasonable to demand that they feel meaningful to be there, based on their own possibilities and assumptions. It is right that the students should become socialised and adapt to living in a society of different people. But the school probably needs to be much more adapted to the individual student. Custom training for each girl and for each boy is important. The challenge of ours, politicians and schools, therefore, is to make a school run so that students can thrive, both professionally and socially, for all 13 years. We have to admit that we have not fully succeeded. We have subsequently received many answers as to why in the case of Norwegian school. St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 has gathered a lot of knowledge in this area. We've been clearly informed about factors that inhibit learning, and factors that promote learning. I'm not going to ram these up, but it says sail that mastering is an important keyword in promoting learning. I mean mastering is a core point of today's interpellation, because boys may not be just fighting and late. They are likely to suffer under the pressure of a school that, in and of itself, is not able to connect theoretical knowledge with the necessary practical activities. At the same time, I think it's important that we don't stigmatize boys. I've heard that in some schools it's not cool to be a good boy. We need to turn a trend around. Guys need good role models in school. Girls may have enough of that. So let me give you the good example. As everyone knows, the school has the ability to determine up to 25 pst. by their syllabus if it gives a better target for the student. There are many other criteria as well. I think we need to be better at using different learning venues. We have to get better at seeing what works. Then comes my example, and it's from Toten, from Skreia high school. There they have established a so-called practical group many years ago. It started with ‘good activities’, and there are probably still most boys, but it varies all the time. It was snowing and woodworking with something custom theory. In this school year, there is a lot of paint, snowing and refurbishment of new educational areas. There is also production for the student canteen, it is open-air facilities, a tissue room, etc. – and adapt theoretical knowledge instruction. There's a lot to say about this. I don't have a reason for that, I see. But we can check what the school says they've achieved: significant well-being in school everyday. Low absence. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. No students can sit at home. If they're healthy, they're picked up, etc. Everyone's going to secondary school. This is a star example. There are certainly many examples, but such things must become common, and each school must find good solutions that suit them. Norwegian school needs even more active, seagoing teachers who go into work to provide students with the experience of mastering and development throughout school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e754	Thanks to the interpellant who put the theme that I would call underuse among the boys, in focus. Rarely have I been so excited about a response from a government council that I have been today – also seen in the light of many years in the school from my side. And the answer was as expected: there's not a single solution, but many composites. As far as the theme of underutilisation is concerned, there are two key actors. It's the student and the school, next to two other important influencing factors: parents and society. I want to get into the individual one after another. Have we got a society whose development has led to that it's not so dangerous what we do at school – it's always going to be a job? I'm just asking the question. Businesses and different industries come into classrooms and say to the student – a 16-year-old: we put emphasis on character in order, behavior and gymnastics. These grades guarantee that you will meet and be in a reasonably good physical form. We're going to teach you how to get to us. When such signals are given from business and professional life, which are in a panic search for labour, they give some signals to young people who, over time and in total, can develop poor attitudes of the least reckless boys. I believe that the boys have gradually become less respectable than the girls – and actually less willing to work. The computer game robs many of the future. Is it so that our oil wealth can camouflage the need for other valuables? The question has to remain. If we have a society that signals through various well-being, work-adapting and training programmes that if you don't do your best at school, society will set up later, because society needs you as a worker – maybe. However, efforts need to be made on two key elements of the challenge: the student himself — with the support of parents — and the school. In high school there are today many places fighting for students to fill up the classes and thus retain both offers and jobs for employees. There are cases where you look through your fingers and reverse requirements for students to have room in the school offer. This spreads among the students, and the school makes itself and the students a bear service. The next thing is that as a student, you don't have to work to get on the system. The school, the contents of the school and the teacher as a central actor are essential, and that is what needs to be addressed. It is a serious signal of the content of the school when one in three ends and does not complete the education. Don't blame the boys, blame the contents of school with too much – too much – theory. For students who are good at practical subjects, it is difficult when they meet with several theories. The consequence is lack of mastering and anxiety. Also the disintegration of classes and the unintended organisation of school days help to make the situation less predictable and structured. But we have to admit that these relationships have been going on for so long that the school has received a generation of teachers that is the result of this particular school. It has to be acknowledged that we not only have unmotivated students, there are also some unmotivated teachers who surround themselves with language and jargon that are not very mind-building and educational. For all, it does not help to reverse trends. But I emphasize that most people do a good job in a difficult arena. With the age composition that we have in the Norwegian teaching class, it's very important to take care of the seniors. Never before has Norwegian school needed these as much as now. So it's urgent to put in place a flexible senior policy for teachers. These are today, in my opinion, the school's most important resource. As we take care of the seniors, teacher training needs to be strengthened. Technical quality requirements must be laid down. Knowledge and pedagogical fitness must be required. Educated teachers must be given the possibility of further training and professional replenishment. Training and qualifying children and young people is the most important thing you can do. Teachers must be given confidence. Then you'll have respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e780	I would first like to thank you for a thoughtful debate. That was basically what I had hoped for. Then, before I give my closing comments, I'm going to refer to what Professor Nordahl himself says. He says in his report that any training or creation process involves the possibility of expansion and enrichment, but also the possibility of narrowing and debilitating what could have been possible. And then he says, ‘It may seem that many boys in school are unable to realize what could have been possible in terms of learning and development and that this can be related to how the school is run and what is valued there.’ Then we're not there, as some of the speakers feared, that we're getting a kind of a race between girls and boys. We get a focus on what the school is doing, the organization of the school, and in my opinion, especially on the situation of the teachers. Here I have the same angle of incidence as the Council of State. Yeah, I think it's a significant local pedagogical room. And there are many places that are used, but not everywhere. There are many reasons why it is not used, but crucial factors for its use are that there are enough teachers, good teachers and safe teachers. Could there be something about the subject board? Maybe, but at least that's how the subjects we have need to be valued for what they are. I think that, in addition to focusing on the very basic skills that lie in the promise of knowledge and that are all agreed on, and to take seriously the theoretical subjects that we have upgraded, we also need to make sure that the practical-esthetic subjects are valued for what they are – both in what they give directly through the subjects they are, and what they can be as educational tools in relation to other subjects. So questions were asked whether that is a pedagogical possibility. Yes, I think there are many pedagogical possibilities, but I also believe that pedagogics are not something to be solemnly adopted in political bodies. I think pedagogics belong to the principle that good and safe teachers who are also safe adults will know that there are different pedagogical forms of work that work. They want to know in a work community, just like the three excellent female teachers I pointed out, how they're going to tackle it. That's why this seems to me to be an answer – not as the only answer, and perhaps not enough, but, I think, a necessary answer – that there has to be a fundamental reform of our general teacher education. The left has given its answer, and we believe it. We challenge others to clarify their answers. We believe that it is necessary to have a systematic build-up of skills through obliging continuing education, and we believe that these two approaches together with having good enough specialised educators who are present early — one of the key points of the Council of State — and good career guidance staff who also have social pedagogical competence, i.e. the school counselling, are necessary answers. Then we will also be able to have a political debate where we can discuss these priorities later. For my part, I thank you for having had a debate that has, in a thoughtful way, opened up this field as a common challenge for all of us in the political everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e800	When a person discusses gender differences in results, it is quick to talk about boys and girls in general order, how the school works on boys and girls, how to attract "good culture" or "girl culture" to certain values. That's why there was a useful reminder from Eriksen and others that everyone should actually be seen for who they are, regardless of whether one is good or girl, big or small, red or yellow. Every single person, every student in school, is entitled to receive a training that is adapted to them. If you have a job in a profession, you should get help. You should get a suitable learning that can bring out the resources and capabilities you have. In that perspective, I think it has been a good and interesting debate, which has also shown that we have at least some thoughts about which direction to go. First of all, we know that the teacher and the teacher have a very central role to play in the school. Therefore, not only do we need to look at general teacher training, which is very important, but we also need to look at what continuing training we provide systematically to teachers, and the role and status of the teacher in society, for years to come. Then we can't have any wait-and-see attitude if it turns out early that boys – or for that matter girls – wear professionally. Therefore, both kindergartens and early school years, as well as children who are not in kindergarten, need to be concerned about taking action to enable everyone to develop their language, learn to read and count – the very basic things one should bring with it. The basic skills will be important to everyone later in life. The representative Hansen made a useful point that role models of both sexes are actually important. Not least in kindergarten, we have a major challenge in ensuring that we have a systematic focus on gender equality when it relates to the sector. Finally, I would like to thank you for the clear signal from – I believe – all the parties that we have to think about a school that meets the most practical students, those who can best show up, feel that they are getting things, in the practical everyday life, and a pedagogic and practical learning. I'll take those signals with me and work on it. I do not have all the answers today, but I believe that the direction taken by the representative Dørum and others is reasonable. Thank you for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e813	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e831	There is initially a broad consensus in Stortinget on the importance of the Norwegian tourism industry. Travel is an international growth industry and contributes to employment and value creation both for Norway as a nation and, in particular, in those parts of the country where there are challenges related to creating new and safe jobs. NHO Reiseliv has conducted an opinion poll among its 600 rapporteurs, councillors and municipal leaders. The conclusion of the measurement is clear: travel life has the highest potential in the Norwegian districts of all industries, and this industry, they say, has asked for greater potential than has been achieved so far. In the measurement, 44 pst meant. travel life has a very high potential for growth in their municipality. In comparison, the figures for primary industry and industry were 13.5 and 17 pst respectively. This says something about the local focus on enterprise policy differing from what I think we have nationally. Industry, fisheries and agriculture are industries that consolidate and streamline, while tourism has the opportunity to receive a lot of labour from industries that are becoming increasingly capital intensive. Norwegian and foreign travellers left almost 90 billion kroner in Norway in 2005. The industry accounts for about 3.5 pst. of gross domestic product and 7 pst. of employment in Norway. Employment accounts for almost 150,000 normal-year-olds, making travel more jobs than the entire maritime cluster together. Between 2004 and 2005, according to the NHO, turnover increased by 40 pst and the industry doubled the profit margin. When 3 billion kroner are going all the way through the accounts down to the bottom line, we have an industry that's strengthening. Nevertheless, we have to recognize that a result margin of 3.4 pst. in the good year 2006 is not exactly something to rejoice about. It's not going to be a payoff of that kind of margins. In the previous three years, the profit margin was 1.1 pst, minus 0.8 pst. and plus 0.7 pst. Travel is, in other words, an industry with very high - pressure margins. It is important to be aware when making changes to the framework conditions that affect the profitability of this industry. It is a paradox that the political interest in the tourism industry, despite a generally positive attitude, is low when it comes to practical action. In the winter of 2006, the Economic and Social Committee considered an award-winning Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party to ask the Government to present its own big business message on a coordinated and targeted strategy for the Norwegian tourism industry. While the parties to the Government distributed many verbal praises for the proposal, they voted in favour of the proposal on the grounds that the majority: ‘have noted the extensive work currently being done in the tourism area of the Ministry and are aware that the Ministry considers promoting a Travel Information Notice’. I record that in the subsequent communication from the Government there is not a single word about a new Storing Message. On the other hand, it is stated in a letter to the Committee attached to the matter that the Government had to have time until spring 2007 to put forward a travel strategy. The government and government parties have talked a lot about their own strategies for five so-called strategic industries in the Soria Moria Declaration. One would almost think that being referred to as a strategic nourishment is a kind of magic word that in itself increases value creation. I don't think the industries that have got that label perceive it that way. The horoscopes of the new industrial policy have been strikingly absent from both the fishing industry, shipping and the tourism industry. A little bit of the background for this interpellation is that we have now passed the spring of 2007, and we are approaching 2008. It's been more than two years since the government change. We have seen very little of an active industrial policy in this area as well. In this situation, it was a bad signal that the government's externally engaged project manager for the travel strategy resigned in protest now at the end of September. The reason given by Professor Georg Kamfjord is that there is little or no tourism management in Norway. He states to the Business of Today on 25 September the following: ‘No one has knowledge, it is only a political ambition.’ And he describes an environment in the government where the travel industry has low status, low recognition and low respect. He describes a situation where nine different departments are involved in travel conditions, without particular coordination. The government was quickly out and stamped the resignation as a staff case. However, the press coverage also shows that the NHO is not satisfied with the staffing of the Minister of Industry in this area. We have to recognise that the tourism industry consists of thousands of individual businesses and many individual industries and niches, each of which has different interests and different needs. However, it is fully possible from a political level to provide a better basis for increased value creation. Marketing is an obvious good investment if we want to boost growth in travel. The Bondevik II Government significantly increased the appropriations in the 2006 draft budget from 100 million. NOK up to SEK 172.5 million. kr, which was the proposal for 2006 – up to 72 p.m. This was a concrete follow-up to the travel life strategy of the then Minister of Economic Affairs Børge Brende presented in spring 2005 in Bergen. The Stoltenberg government maintained the level of the Bondevik II government budget proposal, and now for 2008 the Government proposes 215 million. for marketing purposes. In other words, we have not seen any bets from the Government up from the 2006 level, only a moderate adjustment of about 10 pst. every year. Here, in the proposal for the 2008 budget, the right is also going to lie at a significantly higher level than the Government. The actors in travel life lack coordination and a clearer commitment to the Government when it comes to issues that are important for the tourism industry in departments other than the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. One lacks an active attitude from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so that the interests of the industry are safeguarded throughout the work of the Government. If Georg Kamfjord's description of the situation is correct, we might understand the absence of coordination. This is a role that I hope the Minister of Industry is clearly attached to. It is very tempting to advise the Council of State to set up its own travel unit in the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Take, for example: the proposal for a specific fishing quota for tourists. Simple analyses show that a foreign tourist who travels to Norway, who lives in Norway and hires boat and fishing equipment to fish for their own consumption, spends a total of quite enormous amounts per year. kilograms of fish caught compared to profitability per year. kilograms of fish caught in traditional fisheries. This is like night and day. It goes without saying that the value creation of Norway and the districts is significantly higher in this type of tourist fishing. Nevertheless, the government is taking the step of beating its legs under the coastal tourism industry by introducing very low quotas on tourist fishing. 15 kg is it a tourist should be able to fish if you are traveling in Lofoten. It's pretty fast if you fish in the right place. Local entrepreneurs who have invested millions of dollars in so-called targeted travel life offers in pig-grown strips along the coast experience that the Government of the Ministry of Fisheries targeted kicks its legs during the operation. As a business policy, this is an obvious self-objection. The question many ask, of course, is, Where in the world was the Travel Life Council when this matter was dealt with in the Government? We can be sure of the same thing about the introduction of the NOx fee. This affects industry, fisheries and travel. The reality is that the Government introduces an environmental tax to balance the state budget, hardly without considering its impact on business. It is a fact that the part of the cruise industry that really contributes to coastal value creation through local calls gets a dramatic extra bill from the Government. The paradox for us, who come from counties outside the oslofd area, is that the NOx charge on passenger traffic does not hit the ferries in shuttle traffic to and from the big cities without any other intermediate stop in Norway. It only hits the ferries that make several stops, and is within local places that accept cruise tourists on land. The government has, as far as I can see, just pulled on the shoulders of this consequence of the NOx tax. A fund solution was promised last autumn in relation to the NOx fee. For the time being, it is completely blue about and how – and with effect from when – the government is correcting the misappropriation of the NOx tax. There are many aspects that affect the profitability of travel. The profitability is as well-known low, and it is important that the government does not make the grip that hits this industry hard. Let me do a couple of examples. Travel is a significant export industry, even though the products are sold in Norway. This means that developments in the exchange rate are particularly important towards the euro. When the Government presents an expansive budget in a high economic situation where the krone price has already strengthened, this is not a contribution to the value creation of travel. Agriculture is important for the tourism industry, both as manager of the cultural landscape and through farm tourism. However, many people feel that this part of agricultural policy is not being coordinated or discussed in the context of tourism policy. We can also mention that travel is important for travel, both in relation to effective communication and in relation to tourist routes. And the Ministry of Energy is working on issues about powerline projects that are important to travel life. Does the Ministry of Economic Affairs want to add the shoulder to put cables through Hardanger in the sea instead of along land? We could mention many important areas. There are many large and small grips that can improve the framework conditions for travel. I hope that the Council of State's response to this interview is that the Government will increase its commitment to both marketing and other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e911	Let me first thank the interpellant for the opportunity to inform you about the work that the Government is now doing on our travel life strategy. We stressed in the Soria Moria statement that we will bet particularly on industries where Norway has natural advantages or special competences. This clearly distinguishes us from the previous government, which founded business neutrality on its industrial policy. On the other hand, we have identified five industrial policy areas, and travel is one of them. We're following this up. We have increased all the appropriations considerably, including: through more than a doubling of the appropriations allocated to the marketing of Norway. Now we are in the final phase of designing a national travel strategy in close cooperation with the industry. Our ambition is that Norway should be more involved in international growth in travel, and our starting point is that Norway is a country with opportunities for unique experiences in a particular nature. With a good product, we have great opportunities to create growth and values. That's why ‘valuable experiences’ are our vision for the travel strategy. By providing valuable experiences, Norwegian tourism industries shall generate values for visitors, the company, employees, communities, the environment and the community. We have also set three main objectives. These are: increased value creation and productivity in tourism viable districts through several year-round jobs in the tourism industryNorway as a sustainable travel destination So, until some of the specific issues of the representative, Hansen, pick up. Let me first stress that a forward-looking travel policy must take the environmental challenges seriously. Unspoilt nature is an important part of the experiences that attract tourists to Norway. In order to develop Norway as a brand, the tourism industry must take into account the environmental requirements arising from our national environmental objectives and international commitments. The charge for NOx emissions from shipping, inter alia: from cruise ships, have a background in Norway’s obligations under the Gothenburg Protocol. The NOx tax is an instrument for maintaining environmental quality that is part of an attractive travel product. Fishing tourism is an important part of the tourism industry and contributes to the creation of value added and employment along the coast. However, it is necessary that the taxation of fishing resources takes place within a responsible framework. In 2006, the Government introduced an export quota of 15 kg of cleaned fillet per year. person, which represents a significant amount of uncontaminated fish – it knows everyone who has tried to fill fish. The aim was to limit quantumly oriented tourist fishing. We are now examining the extent of tourist fishing and the impact on fishing resources and value creation. It will provide a good basis for future assessment of the rules. The representative, Hansen, chooses to refer to a staff case in his interpellation. I believe that staff matters should not be discussed in public and ask for respect for the fact that I do not do so from the Parliamentary Chair. The government has granted far more money to the travel industry than any other government. When we joined, we increased funding for the marketing and profiling of Norway from 100 million to 172.5 million. kr. We now propose to Stortinget that it be set at 215 million. to the work of Innovation Norway to promote and develop Norwegian tourism industries in 2008. This is more than a doubling from the 2005 level and is the highest amount ever. Five million. kr of the increase has been earmarked for the follow-up to the Northern Region Strategy. I also encourage the representative to vote in favour of that increase. There has also been a significant increase in the number of marketing products. In 2006, 240 million were spent. to tourism from the other programmes of Innovation Norway. In addition, we have stepped up the allocations of national tourist roads. In 2005, the budget was 60 million. NOK, this year 100 million will be used. NOK, as proposed for next year. Then we've set up our own green travel development program. It's proposed 23 million. kr for this in 2008. These are just a few examples of measures that together constitute a strong boost for the tourism industry. Then in 2008 the government will set up a new investment fund of SEK 2.2 billion. The matter is now under consideration in Stortinget. The Fund may be used for investments in the five strategic areas of the Government. Travel life is one of them. It can contribute to increased innovation in travel, which is necessary to strengthen value creation. Everything we do, we do in close dialogue with the travel industry. Work on the strategy has been a comprehensive process to achieve the objectives and areas of action with which we have chosen to move forward. We have carried out seven regional consultations to get input from the different parts of the country. In addition, objectives and areas of action have been discussed both in a separate reference group for the tourism strategy and in my contact committee for the tourism industry. We also work closely with other departments concerned. Strategic work has been based on important challenges identified by the tourism industry itself. One of the most important challenges is the need for coordination. To be chosen as a travel destination, we depend on being able to offer whole experiences. This makes the nutritionists depend on each other. Whole experiences require close cooperation between business operators and the public. Another challenge of the travel industry is major seasonal fluctuations. The performance of many travel establishments is concentrated to short periods of the year. Travel is labour-intensive, and in parts of the industry large capital investments are needed. It turns out to be a low-profit. Seasonal variations often result in firms not being able to provide full-time jobs. It is therefore difficult to maintain a stable and competent workforce. At the same time, there is a clear link between competence and quality. Low profitability and a lack of stability may make it difficult to achieve the required product quality. Together with the tourism industry, we have identified several areas of action to help achieve the objectives of a tourism strategy. The areas of action are marketing, innovation, competence, quality, sustainable travel, organisation and area development. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is responsible for overall travel policy, but other departments and agencies also have responsibilities relating to the tourism industry. The Ministry will strengthen coordination on the authority side and cooperation with industry. This is important to ensure a good use of resources. The overall and coordinated development of the tourism industry in each region and part of the country is also important. We will stimulate this by focusing on area development in cooperation between industry and authorities. The travel industry itself is responsible for its own development. The Government shall contribute to good framework conditions and conditions for developing and exploiting the potential of travel. We have, as I have explained, implemented a number of measures to facilitate increased value creation and several full-year jobs in the industry. In the near future, we will present a separate strategy on how industry and administrations can, in cooperation, provide the tourism industry with a further boost to meet the challenges ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e969	I would like to thank the Council of State for the contribution and to the extent that the positive attitude towards the tourism industry he expressed on behalf of the Government. It is a political paradox that a government that has promised a more active industrial policy is taking in government agencies and is demonstrating in action what this is all about. The Council of State says that this government has increased the appropriations for travel life marketing by 100 pst. since the Bondevik II Government. In fact, the Bondevik II government presented a separate action plan for the tourism industry and followed it up in its budget of 172.5 million. kr in travel-life marketing proposals. The difference between business neutrality, as the Council of State referred to it as, and active industrial policy, which he believes this government is leading, is then DKK 0 in relation to the international marketing of this strategic industry which the Government believes is so important. It shows that the promises of active industrial policy are more of a play with words than a political reality. There are more and more industries now taking over, and that is why we are experiencing increasing frustration in Norway, in the shipping industry, in the fishing industry and in the tourism industry. People have been kept talking in relation to what is expected to be an alternative industrial policy, a policy that should go from better general framework conditions to better specific framework conditions for each industry. The Council of State then stated that the NOx tax is a measure to improve the local environment, for example. the tourism industry. It is quite a paradox that the government chooses to charge a NOx tax as a purely fiscal charge instead of choosing fund solutions that would give much better environmental impact and much lower costs to the industry. It shows that we have a government that uses these designated strategic industries as a fiscal dairy cow. The NOx charge is applied to shipping, the tourism industry and the fishing industry. All three have been so lucky to have this label ‘strategic business’. I challenged the Council of State whether it was appropriate to set up a separate travel agency under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. I hope he will come back to that, because there are many people in the tourism industry who feel that this government does not coordinate efforts between departments, and that there is a lack of competence in the Ministry of Industry and Trade about important needs for industry. Travel life needs a speaker. They need a spokesperson in the government to deal with important issues involving other departments, and we have too many examples that it hasn't happened. I also want to challenge the Council of States whether there will now be a boost in the promotion of Norway as a travel destination, and whether there will be a boost in research in relation to travel life, which is important for us politicians, who are important for travel life in order to increase their profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e991	I am happy to report to Stortinget that the signals I get out from the business community are fortunately very different from what the representative Torbjørn Hansen says. I don't know where the representative gets his information from, but it's at least completely different sources than I have. When the representative mentioned shipping as an example, I was at the yard conference in Ålesund last week, and there went the industry, represented by e.g. Rolls-Royce, Veritas, research environments and others on the pulpit, one after the other, and said the very opposite of what the representative Torbjørn Hansen says. On the contrary, they said that they were pleased that a maritime strategy had come that was clear, offensive, and that took the industry seriously, as opposed to the nutritional neutrality that underpinned the previous government, and that among other things. was the reason for destroying the net pay scheme. They were pleased that there were concrete measures and not just words. So the reality out there is quite different from that of Torbjørn Hansen. The same applies in the field of travel. We have, as I said, conducted seven conferences around the country, and have had travel lives as a theme in many other contexts. And I can, for example, inform the representative Hansen that his party trap – possibly formerly a party trap – Hovi on Beitostoelen clearly states that it is good that a government has finally taken travel life seriously, as we do with other industries, because we have a strategic approach to it. That's why we're now designing a travel strategy. So how we're going to organize work internally in the government. Yes, it is now the government's responsibility, but I can tell you that the claim that no one is working on travel in the Ministry of Industry and Trade is wrong. To say it this way: I really hope so, because there are four–five pieces that get paid to do it! But in addition to that, very much of that activity now lies in Innovation Norway. There are 27 people in the head office who have travel lives as their work area. That's about. 20 in the regional apparatus of Innovation Norway, and there are 40 out there in the world at international Innovation Norway offices. It might have been an advantage if the representative related to it, and not to claims for which there is no coverage at all. Then it is clear that the NOx fee feels difficult. But it is not as the representative says, that a NOx tax has been introduced to obtain money for the treasury. The Minister of Finance has underlined the opposite and has therefore helped to set in motion a work to find an environmentally friendly, good solution through a fund system that is now being negotiated and in which I believe we need to find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1008	It is commendable that the interpellant gives us the opportunity to discuss travel policy, because it is a theme on which the Labour Party and the Government are very concerned. Of course, the representative Torbjørn Hansen is aware that this is one of the areas in which this government is particularly committed. The Soria Moria statement is the government platform. She refers to travel life as one of five areas of activity. We have a natural advantage within travel life. Therefore, the aim of this government is to further develop Norwegian tourism industries. We must aim for Norway to have profitable and competitive travel businesses. We must aim at an environmentally sound and sustainable travel life that takes care of the natural basis on which we base much of our travel activities, and a travel life that offers high-quality experiences. In order to help achieve these goals, the Government has followed up words of action and through great promises to promote travel life both here at home and abroad. This stands in stark contrast to the line right led when they put in government and had the Minister of Industry. At that time, it was as well - known nutritional neutrality as it was. Travel lives are among the fastest growing industries in the world, and the goal is for Norway to take part in this growth. Travel life is especially important for the districts. In many communities around the country, it is the most important industry, which also gives positive ringing effects to other industries. But there is no doubt that the international struggle for tourists is both tough and demanding. If we are to hijack a larger part of this market, it is necessary to take action from the Government in close cooperation with the industry. This is why work on your own travel strategy is important. Quality and renewal are important keywords. There is a need to re-orient ourselves in relation to what we put in the scope of ‘travel life’. As the state councils were also in, there are experiences tourists want. This means that you have to see travel life, culture and human experiences in a context, and you have to be more conscious of this whole value chain. Norway can offer a large-scale nature and very varied experiences, and the debt of having this marketed in the big world. We can't compete on price, but we can win on quality. We have to make sure that the product is good and of good quality. I would also like to clarify that the tourism industry itself has the primary responsibility for its own development. The task of the authorities is to correct the situation and ensure good framework conditions. The tourism industry on its side must ensure that we have good supplies for which tourists are willing to pay, and it must be responsible. This means that industries need to ensure product development and quality assurance. Cooperation between industry actors and cooperation between actors and authorities at local and regional level provides better product and quality. I know that the destinations that do this particularly well have excellent and good cooperation on many levels. In addition to the international marketing work, mainly carried out by Innovation Norway, the country has a role to play in overseeing the strategic tasks and in the general organisation of the industry framework. The government's commitment to transport policy, agriculture, fisheries and food policy and to tourism industries in the districts is beneficial. And the investment in travel life comes back to the benefit of the districts. I know that the Government is taking action for more cooperation within the authority apparatus to better coordinate the efforts relevant to the tourism industries. In some areas, there will be conflicts between industries. It also pointed the interpellant at in its interpellation. We must ensure that such conflicts are subject to holistic assessments. Therefore, it is important to have a travel strategy, which is now similar to the corner, and which a number of departments are behind, and not least with a strategy developed in close cooperation with the actors in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1025	Let me first thank you to the interpellant for addressing an important issue, and I fully agree that it is an industry that has enormous potential, if you put things right. So it's interesting to hear that the Council of State says that travel life is one of five areas of activity for the Government, and so it's a bet area that's not going to be presented to the Stortinget. It's quite incomprehensible to me. It almost shows that the Government does not take the Storting seriously, and I find that sad. As many have pointed out, tourism is one of the fastest growing industries in the world – which has demanding customers, who have customers who can choose and choose products both nationally and not least internationally. What you then experience in Norwegian travel is that you have a lower growth than what you have in the rest of the world, and that there is a trend that has remained since the 1990s. The tourism industry also has a low level of profitability, resulting in frequent bankruptcy and job insecurity, and in a situation where the labour market is tight, it also makes recruitment difficult in the future. It is an industry that employs about 50 people. 150 000 persons employed, amounting to approximately 5.6 pst. of total employment. It does not appear that the Government and the Council of State are important enough to provide a notification of this to the Storing. So if there's a minority on the Storing that's asked for it, then the Government chooses to ignore it. I think that is quite incomprehensible. There are many challenges to the tourism industry. When the Economic and Social Committee had a hearing on the state budget, some issues arose in connection with the tourism industry. The NHO pointed out the fact that there is too little knowledge out there in the world, and that all studies and investigations, including those on the Internet, are not well-known in the world. In the United Kingdom, the number of problem drug users in the European Union increased by about a quarter of the total number of problem drug users in the EU. We believe that substantial efforts need to be made to market Norway abroad. Once again, we have made a proposal to spend 700 million. in order to market Norway abroad, especially in view of Norway as a winter tourist country. We have put forward proposals for that now. We have made similar proposals in the past, but unfortunately we are quite alone here. That's what we think sad, because there's a need to do something about that challenge. So it's also so that at regular intervals you have less stuff up here in the Storting that gets right into the travel industry. I would like to point out one thing, namely the creation of snowmobile loops, which we have proposed in the past. We want each municipality to have the opportunity to set up a scooter loop. We know that around the whole of Norway there are many small travel businesses that want to facilitate a motorised outdoor life. So they don't have a reason for that. When you look at numbers from travel life in Norway, you'll see that 80 pst. by those who make up the journey life, and those who are tourists, are Norwegians. Clearly, this is a significant potential. What is now seen is that winter tourism is a billion-dollar industry in Sweden and Finland. In Norway, therefore, conditions are not established. I think that's pretty sad. We have promoted a number of other proposals and addressed issues here, such as the Kaldakari project and the Heliski project, etc. Every time it's downgraded by the bulk of the population. It also happened in the previous period, with the other government. So finally, I just want to get into this with tourist fishing. Here the government shows its true I with a total arrogance to the industry by imposing a ban overnight that causes very many of the travel businesses to lose over half their orders. So you did that without being in dialogue with the industry. And then you use that argument that you have to limit the withdrawal in the sea. I have to say that there's a big difference between running tourist fishing in a small fjord, in the Oslo soil, and driving it outside Senja or outside Finnmark. There's a little bit more resources to take off in those areas, but taking into account what the government chose not to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1042	Travel industry is one of the strongest growing industries in the world, while at the same time facing major challenges here in Norway. Travel life is a significant regional industry, an important additional industry for declining employment in agriculture, and there are many important women's jobs. It is said that tourism employment is higher than in both the fishing industry and agriculture in Finnland. The government has said to invest in a tourism industry to provide full-year work. It's important and has to be taken seriously. Unfortunately, we see that there is a long way between word and action. How can we contribute politically to the creation of full-time tourism and economic activity in the many small rural communities that are currently living and pulsating tourism only in a few short summer months? A good example is the Geiranger Tower in Geirangerfjord, which is integrated into UNESCO’s exclusive World Heritage List. Geiranges with their 230 inhabitants, there approx. 45 is employed at Union Hotel, lives and pulsates today more or less throughout the year, thanks to the course and conferences at the hotel in the winter semester. It is a desire to be able to distribute tourism over larger parts of the year to relieve the most hectic summer months. Of course, with approx. 500000 visitors annually are the Geiranger of the country itself, which is the main artery, and which must function in order for the UNESCO World Heritage status to be maintained and anchored in the future. The uncertainty and challenges faced by the population and the largest workplace, the Union Hotel, are that more races are rvs every year. 63 between Eidsdal and Geiranger. Rv. 63 is the only year-round connection that the hotel and the community have with the outside world. Often isolated up to several weeks at a time in the winter, the building helps to weaken Geiranges as a travel life product. It contributes to cancellations and major financial losses, not only for the hotel but also for the small but very important and vulnerable community. If the hotel has to go back to winter closure, it will contribute to unsafe workplaces and the risk of relocation. The UNESCO World Heritage Status, granted to Geirangerfjord in 2005, is based on a living community, as well as the conservation of nature and culture. Closed roads part of the year and relocation can contribute to the depopulation of agriculture and to the extinction of society. The cultural landscape is growing again, and Geiranger as a national tourist lighthouse will suffer a severe permanent deterioration. The Geiranger Travel Life Lighthouse is of great importance to the entire nation of Norway. In the future, if we are to take good care of such unique tourist gems, we have to think of tourism all year round, but then it has to be thought of again. I therefore want to challenge the Council of State by proposing that the Geiranger and Geirangerfjord region be a pilot project for the Government, and that the Government contribute to facilitating all-year tourism, without risk to winter-bound roads due to racial danger. I have previously taken the case of winter roads to Geiranger up with the Council of State, as I believe that the Council of State is directing him by being Minister of Industry. Unfortunately, it went as I feared. The Council of State forwarded the question to the Ministry of Transport, which in turn referred to the national transport plan and to local priorities. Then, unfortunately, we are as far, because the waiting lists for funds for racial protection in More and Romesdal are long as an evil year. The main challenge for the tourism industry is that the industry is living in a no-man’s country in a way. The challenges are today being pushed from department to department without anyone taking responsibility and thinking completely. It is therefore necessary to coordinate work on a national tourism strategy between all the departments concerned. This is at least six-eight ministries. I want to ask the Council of State the following questions: Will the Council of State lift up the world heritage area of Geiranger, and make the small village a pilot in travel life, in view of being able to run all-year tourism in the future without risk to winter-bound roads due to racial danger? The government has said it will bet on all-year tourism in the countryside. I hope to get a positive response from the Council of State. I would also like to say that I was at the same yard conference in Ålesund that the Council of State was at, and I must admit that I am unable to remember the same hallelujah speech to which the Council of State referred here. On the contrary, they were not happy with the shipwreck.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1074	The representative Torbjørn Hansen focuses on an important industry. The tourism industry is essential for the creation of value added and employment throughout the country, in particular in District Norway. The travel industry accounts for about 4 pst. of gross domestic product and nearly 7 pst. of employment in the country. The industry includes, among others: a good female employment arena. The Bondevik II government presented an action plan for the tourism industry in 2005. This action plan provided a good basis for further action on travel by the authorities. The Bondevik II Government also proposed a commitment to the tourism industry in the 2006 budget. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the tourism industry is identified as one of five bet industries. The government promised in the declaration to develop its own strategies for these industries. Having regard to the preparation of these strategies, last March, the government parties rejected the opposition’s proposal to present a comprehensive communication on a coordinated and targeted strategy for the Norwegian tourism industry. We have been waiting and waiting for two years for a strategy for the industry. Meanwhile, the Government’s project manager for the strategy has protested against the lack of priority of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The Ministry has not provided a single full-time job for the tourism work, according to the outgoing project manager, despite the fact that the tourism industry is thus to be one of the Government's bet industries and an important part of the so-called new active enterprise policy that the Government spoke about in the 2005 election campaign. Does the Council of State really have a real commitment to the tourism industry? Or does the Council of State have trouble running its own department? Unfortunately, it is not that the government has only been sitting quietly in this period. It has also actively gone in the wrong direction. The government has introduced a NOx tax such as: directly weighs an important part of the tourism industry. Signals from the cruise industry may indicate that Norwegian port calls are cancelled in favour of foreign ports where there is no similar charge. The result may be considerable losses for Norwegian cruise ports and destinations from the south to the north. There have already been reports of concerns about fewer calls, from Nordkapp and from Bergen. In the north, in particular, the consequences can be very unfortunate, as cruise ships have to pay higher charges the more calls they have to make along the coast. The Christian People's Party is committed to reducing NOx emissions in line with the Gothenburg Protocol, but this must be done at the same time as meeting travel, maritime and fisheries needs. That is why the Christian People's Party proposed last year to establish a NOx fund in agreement with business, as an alternative to the NOx tax. The Fund shall finance concrete actions and investments to reduce emissions. Enterprises shall conclude binding environmental agreements with the Government in return. In line with travel, maritime and fisheries requirements, the Christian People's Party will ask the Government to set up such a NOx fund with effect from 1 July 2008. For the sake of Coast Norway, it's urgent to put this in place. It seems as if the Christian People's Party and the Government have different views on business policy. We believe that the key role of policymakers in industrial policy is to facilitate stable and predictable framework conditions for key areas such as taxation, labour market, competition, education and research. We believe that business should be built from below. We have first and foremost faith in the creativity of individuals and individual businesses to bring about value creation and innovation, not politicians. The government seems to believe that business should be governed more from above, by politicians. At least it is difficult to interpret the government's cut in user-driven research as TaxFUNN and User-driven Innovation Arenas differently. Nor do general framework conditions such as taxes or research and education appear to have a high priority in the Government. The government would bet on five selected bet industries that it had itself pointed out, but not even that it has. The maritime strategy was overshadowed by problems related to shipping tax, and the travel strategy is waiting. The government is going to be in favour of pursuing a tight fiscal policy, but in general I would say that I do not envy the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is going to defend the Government's efforts for Norwegian value creation and innovation, so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1112	Like many others, I'm going to start by thanking you for this opportunity to discuss travel life in Stortinget. It is gratifying that there is such a unified hall that says this is an industry that is important, and on which it is to be put. So I feel that that's exactly what the government is doing, both in word and in action. Also for the Center Party, it is important to stress that this is an industry that we believe has the future ahead of us, and for several reasons. This is already a very important extra leg to stand on in large parts of Norway, especially in the districts. The industry is labour intensive and leads to a high level of employment. In a broader perspective, it is environmentally friendly, because investing in experiences provides an environmentally friendly economy compared to many other alternatives. On my own account, I would like to add that you should share with others what is good and beautiful. Norway is a beautiful country, and if for no other reason than that, we should market this country and share it with others. It's strong growth, and our goal is, of course, further growth, and we're going to do that by actively organizing the industry. The Minister of Industry has gone through the active measures already taken by the Government to facilitate the situation. There I do not feel that there is any very big criticism from the opposition. The criticism that comes, legitimizes itself with the NOx fee. We get criticism of the NOx fee, we get criticism of internal organisation in the department, and we demand a further increase in marketing. With respect to reporting, I can't help but think that in the large picture there must be almost a recognition of the job that the government has done so far, if you have no more to do than a NOx charging system, where we have said that the fund will be in place as soon as possible. In terms of internal organisation in the department and a marketing boost, we're still the best boy in the class. In the future, I think – just to be told – that our job is of course to facilitate the industry. We are not going to run the travel industry in the future, but I see a continued commitment to developing a quality product and a good experience product. A tourism industry that is in pact with the environment and is sustainable is very important, not least in relation to the point where several people have been involved here, the NOx tax and the arrival of cruise ships. It is clear that some places now experience that there is an intersection in terms of how much traffic you actually tolerate. Geiranger may not be the place to have twice as many cruises as you actually have today. It has to be done within frameworks based on environmental sustainability. So, of course, it's our job to participate in and facilitate marketing. We've said that we're going to do this. We're doing it, and we're also going to do it in the future. Furthermore, I would like to address two aspects relating to the general framework conditions on which the opposition challenges. One is transportation. There's the previous NTP that underpins the government's investment so far. It was a cooperation project at the time between those in opposition, against the government, where we increased the framework, and where the then head of the Committee on Transport, Petter Løvik, said this was monopoly money that never came to be used. Nevertheless, we have done so, for example. for the benefit of districts and for the benefit of accessibility and continued growth in travel. I think we can get credit for that. Furthermore, agriculture is an important service provider for travel by providing an active cultural landscape, a cultural landscape in use. My claim is that none of the opposition parties can say that they have been more competent and offensive than the current government in facilitating the agricultural framework. Not least for extensive grazing, which is the prerequisite for the future existence and prosperity of the agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1147	Thanks to the interpellant, which allows for a debate on Norwegian travel life, a forward-looking food because people are saturated with traditional food, of big houses and of new cars, but the more hungry of culture and experiences. The tourism industry is complex, from the small enterprises to the profitable ones, where the tourism industry often comes in addition to other industries. It's quite impressive that only the small-scale part of travel life that has to do with tourism and garden food is going to convert for $2 billion. In some parts of agriculture, barley tourism and garden food have worn the stamp of ‘a small-scale ancillary industry with which women in particular breed’, but the total turnover of 2 billion DKK is more than the total voiding space in the forest cooperative. It's a pleasure to record that the 2007 season was brilliant, with a growth of 12 pst. At the Norwegian Travel Workshop fair in spring, foreign operators were reported to flock and follow requested offers other than the large standard hotels. The trend in travel is towards more individual travellers and smaller groups, who want real experiences. Small scale tourism and garden tourism are in the middle of the flash. Most have reported increasing demand for local food and culinary small-scale specialities. One hotel chain and one store chain after another have opened the doors for specialities and local food. It is a pity that the management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food reduces special production and small-scale supplies at a time when this is just being asked. Fortunately, the previous government got the small-scale and specialty train on the rails, and so offensively so that the train goes on. As I said at the outset, the tourism industry is diverse and complex. In fierce competition with many countries that are larger, and which are far more than small in Norway, offensive public and national strategies are needed, and urgent need to be taken into account. Then it doesn't keep up with words, you have to move on to action. Therefore, the Left proposes to increase the travel life rate in next year's budget. Marketing money is important and crucial, but in order to succeed there are also other important factors that need to be taken into account. The branding strategy is essential to describe the identity of the industry and to provide the basis for a common culture and profile. Often, there is a lack of a holistic link between individual actors in the tourism industry, but also that actors and the instrumentation have not developed a common position. It is important that this happens if no developmental failure occurs. Another important area is competence. The industry will increasingly experience travelling habits and demanding customers. To meet this, professional competence and competence are needed. A central element of the national travel strategy is needed. One area covered by the strategy is the link between travel and other industries, for example: the relationship between cultural landscapes, agriculture and tourism, but also between other industries. Interaction becomes important. Travel life must be invested in and prioritised as a resource. This applies not least to the organisation and interaction of the ministry in the tourism sector. I hope that the Council of State listens to what has been said, remembers it and acts. In my opinion, Norway is a retard and has major shortcomings in the public organisation and interaction of Norwegian travel. This must be taken into consideration by the Council of State. I look forward to the Norwegian Travel Life Strategy of the Government. The possibilities are absolutely present in this small, but peculiar country, but then it must be acted upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1168	I would also like to take the opportunity to boast of the interpellant for putting this important issue on the agenda here in Stortinget today. My co-representatives in the Committee have all pointed out the importance of this industry and have provided some important facts about it. That's why I'm not going into that kind of stuff in my post. What surprises me, however, is how humble this council of states is to the opposition's input. He goes in many ways right in the throat of both the interpellant and the rest of the opposition in matters that are being debated here in Stortinget. He is therefore a little comfortable with the fact that the Storting puts pressure on the Government in matters where things are going slowly in the Government. That's what I think is a strange attitude towards the minority in Stortinget. The government has done a good job of picking out five areas where Norway has a special advantage. That seems to me to have made sense to the Progress Party. But then we can also – more than two years after the government joined – ask the question: Which of these cases has been put to the Stortinget? There may have been some small drops in the budget and in the revised budget between them, but no major action plans have been presented, as far as I am aware. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to stress the Council of States on the following: Will this Action Plan for Travel Life be presented to the Stortinget and will the opposition be invited to participate in a debate on this travel life strategy? I think the Council of State should be able to answer that clearly and concisely before he leaves the Storting today. Earlier this fall, the Government put forward a maritime strategy. There was a lot of good in it, even though the tax case is completely destroying the government's policy towards this industry. It would have been incredibly interesting for Stortinget to be able to participate in the design of this maritime strategy and had a broad debate in Stortinget around that strategy. It is a fact that so far this period has had very little to do. The Committee has almost gone into crab bites. There has been a starvation from the Government on matters for the Food Committee. There are representatives from the opposition parties who make the Committee have something to do at all. Therefore, before the end of the period, I believe that the Government should bring some overall strategic issues to the Committee, which the Committee will have the opportunity to discuss in depth, both in the Committee, through consultations and here in the Chamber. Then I have noticed that the Council of State says that Professor Georg Kamfjord's resignation in the department is a matter of staff. One might say that, but when he resigns over two pages in the business of today and makes a number of specific points in terms of shortcomings both in the government policy and in the internal organisation, I actually feel that he is acting as an alert. If the Council of State puts a lid on the alerts that had to be found within his work area and says this is a personal matter, so I will not discuss that, then we are going in the wrong direction. This is a kind of information that it's very important that Storting knows about. It is the kind of information that enables the Storting to lay the foundation for a good policy towards this important industry and also towards other important industries in this country. Therefore, I believe that Kamfjord and other alerts are entitled to be heard, and that the matter is not covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1183	Norway has an exciting starting point for further development of the tourism industry, based on a fantastic nature. We have unique natural environments on the UNESCO World Heritage List, and we know that tourists who have visited Norway are very good ambassadors for our country. Our cost level speaks against investing in mass tourism, but if we are uncompromising on quality, we can still attract a large number of visitors, who can spend more money and who can make travel and tourism an even more important industry both in terms of jobs and turnover. It requires the industry to receive maximum attention from the Minister of Industry. In Norway we are also so lucky that beautiful nature and many attractions are scattered throughout the country. Travel industry therefore has a high potential, almost everywhere. However, the assumption is that there are imaginative people with the right skills and willingness to bet. The red-green government has identified travel life as a central component of its much-discussed north-eastern strategy. The question is what it means in practice. So far there are few traces of extraordinary bet in the north. My first challenge to the Minister of Industry today is whether he can explain when the Government will take the “large” marketing promise for Northern Norway travel life, which former Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen and Åslaug Haga have promised as the Minister of Municipal Affairs to travel life actors in the region. If we spend the summer at home in Norway, we see that the tourism industry is going high. Worse, there are many places in the winter. Similarly, we know that snow-based travel activities, which start their season in these days, go too far beyond Easter, but often labor to fill the so-called field season with activities that can bring benefits. Seasonal work in travel is perhaps the main challenge and problem of this industry, and is reinforced in a situation of labour shortage. For who wants to invest in an industry that only gives you living parts of the year, when there are so many other attractive jobs to choose from? This is my second challenge to the Minister of Industry: What measures will the Government actually take to speed up the development of several full-year jobs in travel and tourism? ‘Look to Finnmark!’ says Innovation Norway. From a one-sided cultivation of midnight sun, the safari of Finnmarksvidda in northern lights is becoming an equally important traction patch and provides the basis for all-year activities both in small and large travel businesses. In Finnmark, we have seen how active interaction between business operators and the travel environment at the Alta High School and targeted investment with the support of the instrument can provide full-time and attractive jobs. A conscious effort is required to raise the volume of new travel life products that allow for the collection of air or fast-haul cargoes with tourists who will experience and use their leisure time in Norway. Finnmark is now well on offer in the winter half of the year, but in Troms and Nordland there is still much to be done. Together with Lofoten and Nordkapp, Hurtigruta is one of our strongest travel brands. It is exciting to see how Hurtigruta has partially changed its product to include shorter travel routes, and in close cooperation with land-based activities. A good example of such a win-win situation is the cooperation between Hurtigruta and Tromsø Villlmarksszentrum, which has meant greater predictability in the number of visitors to the Villlmarkszentrum both summer and winter, while passengers at Hurtigruta have an exceptional natural experience on the purchase. In about two and a half weeks, Lofast, which binds the Lofoten to the mainland, opens, and with one, the distance from Svolvær to the airport of Evenes is just a two-time drive. Danish tourists have already stepped up and are now participating in weekend trips to Lofoten with pruning saws as their main attraction. The Nordic regions are the Government's strategic area of interest, and travel life is on the list of industries to increase activity in North Norway. I would like the Minister of Industry to confirm today that StatoilHydro's development contract with Shtokman does not mean that the Government is now leaning back and considering the industry initiative in the North Region Strategy fulfilled. My third challenge to the Minister of Industry now is to develop a policy that will enable municipalities with large protected areas in North Norway to develop business activities related to them. Here, the Right has promoted a proposal for a representative, which we hope the government parties will give their support in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1213	I would like to thank those who have made contributions to the debate. The debate shows that there is a broad consensus in the UK that travel life is an important industry, important for Norway and important for districts. It also confirms the two speeches that were kept by the government parties in this debate, but it is also possible to suffocate a policy area with goodwill. My impression is that the government's policy in the field of travel is a bit influenced by this. There are many positive political ambitions, but when it comes to the problem, and when it comes to concrete action, it looks as if the commitment is lower than what is in the political documents. Being a strategic industry has proved to be a risk sport, both for the fishing industry and for the shipping industry. In the two industries, the Government has had little contact with the industry and has introduced increased regulation and tax burdens. That's why it's interesting to see what's going on in the tourism industry, when, hopefully, before New Year's, we get a new strategy, whether this is going to be a positive approach to the tourism industry, or whether it's going to be a disappointment, either in the form of little concrete action or in the form of other acts of a political nature. I think many people can agree on the following: with regard to tourism policy, the Minister of Industry has a very good tool in terms of international marketing of Norway as a destination for travel life. That's why it's the puzzle of a government that has promised an active industrial policy, that it's only increased by 10 pst. each year of the two years elapsed. It's puzzled, because this government has billions of dollars more than other, former governments. You have increased tax revenue, and you have increased oil revenue. Then there should have been room for a significantly stronger increase in the marketing bit than 10 pst., from a starting point that was 172.5 million. At the beginning of the year, in 2005. I also believe that the Council of State should take with it the signals that come both from the Chair and from the Industry, in terms of the competence of the Department, and in terms of the follow-up to this industry on many important issues. It is important to understand that the Government must coordinate its efforts. The Ministry of Economic Affairs must ensure that the Ministry of Finance also understands travel policy, that the Ministry of Fisheries understands the importance of things being done in relation to travel life, that the Ministry of Culture understands the importance of culture for the tourism industry in the big cities, that the Ministry of Justice understands that safety in the big cities means something to the tourism industry, and that the Minister of Labour understands that access to labour in the districts is important. In other words, we need a Minister of Industry who understands that he has a tool, which is willing to use that tool, and who understands that the Government's Travel Policy Toolbox spanning all departments of this government. I would like to thank the Stortinget for a good debate on travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1228	I too would like to thank you for a good debate. Not least, I have been given the impression that both in the opposition and among the government parties there is a great deal of excitement that travel life is something we should bet on in the future. When the representative Asmyhr perceived me as a little humble, it was probably on the basis of my response to the interpellant that was based on a number of claims for which there was actually no coverage. I'll let myself tell you about that. An example of what I used was shipping, which was also the representative of Asmyhr, and which several people have been involved in. I didn't say there was any hallelujah mood in Ålesund, but it's a pretty common debate technique from the Right to add things to people they haven't said, and then argue against it. I underlined – and it emerges from the news picture the day after that conference – that a number of speakers felt that it was a good maritime strategy, which contained not just words, but, in fact, concrete action. In practice, that means 100 million. kr, among other things, in addition to the effort we have had in the past on maritime strategy. When Asmyhr and others then say that the Stortinget is not given the opportunity to discuss – in that case – the maritime strategy or, for that matter, the travel strategy, it is not quite right, because all the measures proposed are included in the annual government budgets. So the measures to the industries come into the government budgets and are, of course, discussed, but the government has also said that in some areas, as we have also mentioned in documents to the Stortingen, we will present our strategy for the future. I am pleased that the representative of Asmyhr and others in the Progress Party and I agree that it is at least right to target the bet in some areas where Norway has special assumptions, and travel life is such an area. This is why we have set up a number of arena programmes, such as, for example, to combine research, knowledge environments and business to develop both mountain tourism and fjord tourism. It was opened one in Lofoten a few days ago, and Gladmat in Stavanger is another example of it. When we're going to discuss the tourism industry, it's, in addition to what I've said so far, about both food and cultural experiences, for example, in order to get a complete travel product. It will be addressed in the strategy. That's also the way that we've granted 4 million for the first time. kr – not a large amount, but it is the first time that money has been allocated directly to the Research Council to carry out more quality assurance and research and to bring about new knowledge about the tourism industry in Norway. So it's going to be on a wide front, with a variety of tools. Of course, as last time, I cannot stand here and say that the Minister of Transport is going to recalibrate on the priorities set by Mr More and Mr Romsdal in the National Transport Plan, but the national transport plan is a good example of a policy area on which this government has invested more than the previous government, which also benefits travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1241	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1259	St.meld. No 21 for 1999-2000 focus on the use of coercive measures in the social and health field. A SINTEF report from June of this year has demonstrated that the use of coercion is increasing in relation to patient groups such as mental retardation, mental illness and dementia. This is very alarming in the opinion of the Left. In Norway, I think a lot of people think that we live in a good and safe country, and that the state will do the best for us all, if we need it. Overall, it also works very well in Norway in most cases. We live in a good and safe country, the screens for war within the country, and most of us have incomes that residents of other countries can only dream about. That's why it might be hard for us to believe that it's being attacked by public authorities. It's something we connect with military dictatorships and countries with poor state structures. But it will! We have doctors at the top of statistics on the use of coercion in psychiatry. Human rights are being broken in Norway, to a certain extent in psychiatry. There is also the use of coercive measures against drug users, mental retardation and dementia. We in the Left are not coerced in all situations, but it is very worrying that there is so much of it. As a liberal party, we think that a basic idea in a society is that it is the citizens who are to control the state, not the state who is to control the citizens. Left thinks it's a problem that we in Norway have such an infinite belief that the law will solve everything. The world's best laws and the very best patient rights in the world do not help unless patients or users are able to run a trial. I want to quote Fredrikke Marie Qvam. She was a voter, political activist from the Left and one of the most important women in our political history. She already said this in 1903, over a hundred years ago: "All in all we have in our time, both men and women, such a wonderful faith that the laws will create wonders, but that is wrong. It is the people who practice the laws. If men are good, then they will fill themselves with a good spirit. Forces are carried out by healthcare professionals at many different levels, and I don't think they are necessarily sitting every time and interpreting the legal text first. We need to focus on not breaking people's human rights, and it has to go down to a practical level at the workplace. We need material, discussions based on human rights, and we need health professionals to be taught about human rights. This perspective, in the opinion of the Left, will do something to reduce the use of force. Health professionals report that they are insecure in situations where coercion is being used. Therefore, there is also a need for security around each situation to force, where necessary, the least possible and in the most defenceable way possible. Better training and more focus on coercive use are needed throughout the response chain. The SINTEF report, which I referred to in the introduction, suggests that the use of coercion is closely linked to poverty and housing problems. More than 40 pst. of patients who are being forced to maintain their mental health status on a daily basis do not have their own housing. This is approx. 420 people. In addition, there is a monthly proportion of patients who have their own housing, who, at the discretion of the caregivers, have not had housing or satisfactory housing conditions. For example, many people do. the need for more assistance and supervision in the housing than they receive, and the patients who are being forced to do so, whether they are forced to provide mental health protection, coercive care or coercive care, have a poorer economy, less education and less social ties than those patients who are being treated on a voluntary basis. In short, it's the weakest in society we talk about. Mental Health Norway believes that it could mean a renewal of mental health protection if a distanced treatment criterion as a legal basis for forced enrolment. Instead of my mental health Norway, a person should use the technical criterion to mean that the patient himself presents a danger to himself or to others. There is every reason to listen to the User Organisation at this point. In Norway, we're good at signing laws and protocols on human rights. It is all right, but the question is whether we are adequately assuming the responsibility and duties involved. Here I don't think any government has been good enough. Individual teachers, health workers, nursery services, police and psychiatrists need better training, the whole group. The fact that Norwegian laws and regulations are in line with international conventions is a good start, but that does not mean that this automatically reproduces downwards to those who are forced to exercise force in practical situations. Human rights laws are passed on to Norwegian laws and give health workers the right to break Norwegian decisions where they hinder their human dignity. Many suggest that there is too little discussion and reflection at the individual workplace in the health care community attached to people's human rights. Therefore, the Left wants health professionals to be better trained in forced use and to be given greater opportunity for reflection in order to make good choices in the situations where forced use is used or assessed. Better training material must be developed, and practical assistance must be provided to human rights discussions within the healthcare system. In the United States, there is a large user organisation called the World Network of Users and Survivors of Psychiatry, a network of users and survivors after psychiatric treatment in the world. The fact that a patient and a user organisation use the word ‘survivor’ in this way illustrates some of the tension facing the treatment field. Psychiatry has a great power of definition, and thus they have great power over the treatment pathway for the individual patient. The number of diagnostics increases every year, and we're well up in something like over 400 different diagnostics. It goes without saying that there is a need for discussions about this in this room as well. Fortunately, there are also many discussions on this topic in the trade union environment. This brings me back to the starting point of this interpellation: What will the Council of State do to reduce the use of coercion within the healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1290	Norwegian health policy is based on respect for individual integrity. The individual shall have dominion over his or her own life and shall not be subjected to any infringement by any authority or by any other authority. When coercion is used, the individual is deprived of any control and control over his own life. Therefore, the discussion of coercion needs to be ongoing, and we need to have transparency about how we balance the different considerations of coercion. Unnecessary and improper use of coercion shall be avoided. I therefore appreciate the fact that the representative Ludvigsen places the spotlight on issues related to this difficult topic, because the question of coercion raises many questions: Is the law good enough? What kind of supervisory arrangements do we need? How are we going to improve the skills and attitudes of health professionals and in the workplace on the use of coercive measures? I perceive that there is such a holistic approach that underlies the interpellation, and then with particular attention to reflection and good training of health professionals in the individual workplace. The government is very concerned about the question of the use of coercion. I don't want to claim that the authorities are doing everything right in this area. We have to always consider whether we're using the right measures. The work of the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health and the governance signals of regional health businesses are important here. I will mention some key aspects of the work of coercion: Policy and practice must be based on knowledge and research.Politics and practices must be anchored in human rights obligations and the objective of equivalence.Reports from supervision and control commissions must be actively used in the development process all the time. The SINTEF report to which the representative Ludvigsen refers is limited to the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. So the main part of my answer will bear the stamp of it. In order to give an overall picture, I would also mention some other areas of health and social services where rules on the use of coercion have been laid down. It is absolutely central that we are sure that the conditions of coercive use, the enforcement of coercive measures, the processing of cases and the possibility of review are consistent with human rights. According to the Government’s assessment, the coercive provisions of health and social legislation are in accordance with human rights. It is very important that the service is subject to legal provisions and ethical issues through the use of coercion. Today, this is the theme of the education and training of psychiatrists and psychologists. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health is now undergoing specialist training, including: with emphasis on training in legal provisions and ethical dilemmas related to the use of coercion. Ethical issues have increased attention in recent years. At present, clinical ethics committees have been established at almost all health establishments in the country. This has been a requirement in the governance document of regional health enterprises since 2003. These committees shall contribute to increasing the competence of employees in ethics and guidance and advice on ethical issues. The use of coercion is a central theme in the work of the committees. A clear objective of the mental health escalation plan is to maximise the voluntary nature of the treatment and to increase the emphasis on the involvement of users. Measures such as increased emphasis on municipal interventions, district psychiatric centres with outpatient teams, better emergency services and better follow-up and accessibility are expected to reduce coercive use. Compared to other countries, Norway has a high proportion of compulsive patients and a high proportion of coercive use in people with mental disorders. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has been commissioned to draw up a plan for reducing and ensuring the quality of the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. User organisations have been involved in this work and that plan has four main objectives: 1. increased volunteering2. the quality-assured use of coercion where it is necessary to use3. increased knowledge4. better evidence of forced use; I would like to highlight some measures. Outpatient emergency teams at the district psychiatric centre: such teams allow patients with long-term and complex mental disorders to be followed up. Systematic follow-up we know helps to reduce the number of forced insertions. Forced research and knowledge development networks: SINTEF is the leader of this project, where six emergency departments look at user-oriented alternatives to coercion. The Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health will take the initiative to sum up knowledge on the impact of day-to-day treatment with particular emphasis on coercive treatment. We've been rounding off mental health law, which is now under review, to ensure that the legislation is practiced in line with what is the intention of the legislator. It also includes the human rights obligations. In order to increase legal certainty for patients who are subject to coercive decisions and to ensure the quality of the Commission’s work, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has drawn up templates for what must be included in the Commission’s decisions, both in complaints and investigations. As is known, a joint health and care committee has asked for an assessment of the treatment criterion as a condition for the establishment of coercion. The interpellant was also inside it in his post. This occurred in the treatment of changes in the Law on Mental Health in 2006. The background was, as has been explained, Mental Health’s input to the Committee on Forced Use and User Assistance. In the 2008 draft government budget, the Government has announced the creation of a working group to address this issue in more detail, so that the Ministry can assess whether and how we should proceed with this issue. This work shall be seen in the light of the adopted Action Plan for the reduction and quality assurance of forced use in mental health protection. The working group shall also assess the need for more measures, including: the conditions under which medicinal products are to be treated without their own consent. User organisations shall participate in this important work on a voluntary basis. Chapter 4A of the Social Services Act lays down rules on legal certainty in relation to the use of coercion and power in relation to individuals with developmental disabilities. Evaluation shows that the rules have contributed to better control of the use of coercion and power and that the use of coercion against this group has decreased. Unfortunately, however, its supervisory reports show that municipalities have major challenges to avoid the use of coercion and power where possible. They also face challenges in ensuring sound management when coercion and power must be used. Therefore, Chapter 4A of the Social Services Act shall be re-evaluated taking into account whether the provisions prevent and restrict the use of force and power. Staff shall contribute to ensuring legal certainty as the review body for the decisions of the local authorities on coercion, for comprehensive guidance tasks and through the allocation of funds for the building of competences. In 2007, the county councillors were commissioned to implement guidance measures in all municipalities of the country in order to improve legal certainty for people with mental retardation and people without consent. As you know, the Social Services Act provides for the detention of drug addicts in a health institution. Several teams have reported that the use, implementation and effect of compulsions by drug addicts is not satisfactory. I would therefore like to ensure that we have a comprehensive evaluation of the rules, in order to find answers to questions about the use of coercive measures against drug addicts and the effect of coercive measures both in the short and long term. I would also like to mention the new rules in the Patient Rights Act Chapter 4A. The new provisions shall clarify and extend the legal basis for providing health care to patients without consent. Another purpose is known to prevent and reduce the use of coercion. The rules will include: be applicable to individuals with, for example: dementia. It takes some time to prepare this measure, which must be in place before the legislation can be implemented. Among other things, there is a great need for training materials, as the representative Ludvigsen did. As you know, the government has proposed $9 million. to this end, in the 2008 state budget. Awareness of the use of coercion is fundamental to the success of establishing a well-functioning service for mentally ill people and others who may be subjected to coercive treatment. Good regulation and good voluntary methods are important. However, it is equally important that employees are aware of how to avoid unnecessary day-to-day coercion. I want to make sure that I will continue to follow closely the way the law on the use of coercion is working and handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1365	I thought that the post that the Council of State held was fine. We are very few, which I will come back to in the summary at the end. The SINTEF report that I referred to points out that there are very poor statistics in relation to forced mental health protection for children and young people in particular. In addition, the study shows that patients in mental health protection, as a general group, are far less economically and socially disadvantaged than the general population. Of all outpatients, for example. only 20 pst. who takes care of himself at work, while two-thirds live by some form of social security. Among 24 - hour patients, the report says that there is only 4 pst. who takes care of their own work. The housing problem is ongoing for this group as well. It is a significant number of people with mental disorders who have outsourced housing needs. In addition, there is a significant number that should have been more supervised after the evaluation of the treatment providers. The work of the House Bank on municipal housing social treatment plans suggests that one third of the homeless people need treatment or extensive care services to be able to live in their own housing, one third need assistance to be built in their own housing, while one third will be able to take care of themselves. Some of this problem we, as politicians, must be able to do something about, and I would like to right what the council of my state is entitled to when it comes to increasing supervision in housing for this patient group. It is likely that we will always have serious mental illnesses such as schizophrenia, etc. But what we politicians can do to help us are our own homes for those who have trouble living. Proper supervision and supervision of those who have problems in their own homes will also be important. And another important thing: we have to admit that there are mistakes made in mental health protection, and then we have to find ways to deal with it that allow us to learn from the failures that are done. The left is concerned about having greater and more constructive emphasis on user involvement through dialogue with patients, and we believe that proper alert procedures and anonymous alerts are necessary. In the end, I have a heart attack: many in the field of mental health protection are listed above all the censuses, measurements, controls and reports that occur, seemingly without any emphasis on content or adequate focus. It seems enormously bureaucratic and takes focus away from patients. The recording of non-conformities must be written in words, so that it is possible to distinguish between important and unimportant deviations. What is the State Council's comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1380	Let me first say that I fully agree that when it does wrong – because there are people everywhere, and all we humans do from time to time – it is very important that a teacher of the mistakes that are being made. It's generally true in our health care system. In Norway, according to SAMDATA’s mental health protection figures, there has been a fairly stable 25 pst. However, the number of forced insertions has increased somewhat, as a result of which we treat more patients, and that is usually worrying. What is also worrying is that the proportion of forced insertions in the individual health area varies from 7 pst. to 40 pst. It says, I think, a good deal about attitudes, knowledge and lack of voluntary action, and it's said that there's different composition compared to what people need. I also think it is interesting to look at an EU study that has compared the law in the different EU countries. It shows that the law itself — the meaning it has — is limited in relation to the extent of coercive use. There are also several other factors that are crucial to the practice in this area. There may be culture, there may be legal traditions, there may be general attitudes towards people with mental disorders, there may be organisation, and there may be administrative procedures in the field, etc. That is why I agree with the representative, Mr Ludvigsen, that we must have an overall approach here. I believe a lot is in education, knowledge, attitudes and that kind of thing. I also fully agree that we must have an overall approach here, for example. as regards the matter raised by the representative here as a matter of supervised dwellings and dwellings. As you know, the government has proposed a new investment grant for next year. It shall be used to build nursing homes for the elderly, but it shall also be used to build nursing homes, both for the elderly and for the younger with different needs, e.g. for people with mental illness and for people in need of supervision. That's why that grant could also help us get more of that kind of housing, and because we're strengthening the municipal economy, we're getting more people to run over. It has to be that we have equivalent services, regardless of whether the economy is bad or not. If you do not have a place to live, it should not be that you are more forced than if you are better off. These are important issues, and from the government side, we are working very fully on this. That means that we're e.g. talks with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which is responsible for housing, how we should do better, and how we should also manage to reduce further the use of coercion. So, I'm taking the recordings from the representative Ludvigsen further into that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1391	The use of coercive measures against people to combat injuries is a form of assault that can sometimes be avoided. Before the summer, Gro Hillestad Thune was in the media a lot after a SINTEF report on coercion revealed that forced insertion, coercion medication and the use of handcuffs and footlinks were constantly increasing in Norway. Norwegian psychiatry must stop using so much coercion; it is in violation of human rights, she thundered. She gave us a reminder that we might have, that all the fine words that are written and produced do not necessarily lead to an increase in the amount of abuse. Is she perhaps right when she says that we are lulling into a naivety that abuse and abuse of power occurs only in exceptional cases here in the country? We choose to believe that our health care system is transparent, and that the individual's rights are well protected by a law. But internationally, we are actually known to use a high level of coercion. The use of coercion in Norway also has large geographical variations which cannot be explained by different morbidities or other demographic conditions. This was also mentioned by the Council of State. From 2001 to 2005, the use of coercive measures has increased by nearly 50 p.p., including the use of mechanical coercive agents, isolation, but also the use of screening and short-term medicinal products. Project managers of the submitted SINTEF report assumed that there would be a link between the severity of the patient’s suffering and the use of coercive agents. Other factors that they thought would be decisive were low care factors. But then it actually turned out that a high care factor seems to be associated with frequent use of mechanical coercive agents, and some connection with the severity was difficult to find. While in the Norwegian debate on health policy it has been claimed that there is a strong link between formal competence and forced use, there are few studies showing such a connection. The reason for this may be that the institutions that have a demanding and heavy patient group have recruited the most highly educated staff. Although the causal relationship is difficult to trace, the numbers are clear. We see a sharp increase in the use of coercion, both in terms of the number of times and the number of hours of coercion, and in particular in terms of the strengths. Forced against women several times, but for several hours against men. However, there is only a limited correlation between the severity and the use of coercion by the institution. Employees with long professional experience often have better training in conflict situations and use methods other than coercion more often. Perhaps in many cases this is about the individual’s safety in relation to his/her working situation. It may be about attitudes, but it's not easy for someone at work to feel insecure. Then, unfortunately, in many cases it can lead to unnecessary use of coercion. The various analyses do not give a clear picture of the reason, but they tell us that it's going in the wrong direction. We don't get any unambiguous answers on how to change this either. With regard to the transport of patients at emergency hospitalisations, this has been the subject of several occasions in the last year. Although new guidelines on health care and police responsibilities for mental illness indicate that the police cannot be used as a pure transport service, they do so to a large extent. The European Torture Committee has criticised Norway for the use of handcuffs and ankles in such situations. At the same time, Health Bergen has followed up this criticism by establishing an ambulance service that has the primary responsibility for the transport of mentally ill people. At least there are good results from one area. Several of these forced situations could actually have been avoided if there had been political will to establish equivalent elsewhere in the country. Mental Health issued strong warnings in 2001 against the closure of more institutional sites. Their fear was not unjustified. The members of the Committee are constantly being informed of concerns as to the fact that qualitative alternatives to abandoned institutional sites are not built up, which in the next series can easily lead to the opposite of what was the objective of the escalation plan. The most serious mentally ill often feel excluded and stigmatised in society, and the use of coercion continues to increase. The party now believes that the reason for the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection, mental retardation and dementia needs to be examined, and that targeted action needs to be taken to reduce the use of coercive measures. At the same time, the need for more lucky days places needs to be taken seriously. Psychiatric ambulance services need to be established, and much more attention needs to be paid to the use of alternative methods in healthcare in general. In the case of psychiatric housing, it is also important that these are manned. The Progress Party believes that the earring within the psychiatry must continue until we get better relationships than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1412	I would like to thank the representative Gunvald Ludvigsen for addressing this important issue of the use of coercion in the social and health sectors. In my small posts, I want to focus primarily on psychiatry, where Norway has repeatedly been criticized for frequent use of coercion. So late in June this year, human rights researcher Gro Hillestad Thune stated that Norwegian psychiatry is using coercion, even if it violates human rights. These are forced insertions, coercive medication, handcuffs and ankles. It has not been long since a Norwegian treatment institution was convicted of human rights violations, we heard through the NRC. This is serious. A report from SINTEF showed large geographical differences in the use of coercive measures in psychiatric health services in this country. And as the representative Ludvigsen said, the report also stated that patients who are being forced into forced care have lower incomes, lower education and lower living conditions than patients who are undergoing voluntary treatment. The mental health organisation has been involved in the high level of coercive use for many years, as the Council of State also mentioned. They represent a number of users who have very negative and often traumatic experiences after being forced into mental health. Time and again, year after year, they have pointed out to the Enlargement Committee that the so-called treatment criterion of the mental health law needs to be reviewed and deleted as a basis for forced admission. It has so far been that most patients who are being coerced are included on the basis of the treatment criterion, i.e. the risk of loss of treatment. Fewer entries are made on the basis of the hazard criterion. In a letter to the Council of State Sylvia Brustad of Mental Health and the Norwegian Association of Psychologists, they say: ‘A coercion is a serious infringement of the integrity of a person and should only take place if there are serious reasons.’; The two organisations agree that we need to take a closer look at the treatment criterion as a basis for coercion, in the light of human rights principles. They point out the need to look at the relationship between treatment and care versus the right of self-determination. It was gratifying that the Health and Care Committee, in the context of the revision of the Law amending the Mental Health Act in 2006, joined a proposal to ask the Government to assess the need for the treatment criterion in the law, in the light of experience. It is also positive that the Council of State has started its work. I have noticed that in the Government's 2008 draft government budget, it is said that there are difficult ethical, clinical and legal dilemmas surrounding the possible removal of the treatment criterion. It is proposed to set up a working group to address the issues. After this has been done, consideration shall be given to the need to carry out extensive distribution work. After what I understand, this whole work will run out in time. When we are faced with a situation where several agencies point out that Norway’s practice of coercion is a violation of human rights, I believe that the work must be carried out and prioritised. With the Storting's clear attitude, I would like to ask the Council of State to look into the appropriateness of having two races, with two different working groups/committees. In the interests of patients who are constantly experiencing coercive use, this is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1436	The debate has shown that this is a serious issue. The most important thing we can say, I think, is that we have a common sense of the use of a lot of coercion in Norway, and that a lot of coercion is used in Norway in relation to countries that we want to compare with. And as the report from SINTEF shows, it goes in the wrong direction. Then it's serious. I think the most important thing about this debate is that we get to focus on this serious issue, and then we're all going to try to contribute to some improvement. It is obvious that for a country like ours – we like to believe that we are the best in the world when we owe it, that we are the freest country in the world – it becomes a paradox that we have such a frequency when it comes to coercion against some of our fellow people. That's what people are talking about, and we have to take that seriously in my view. I am very pleased with what the Council of State was about. The council says we have a law we have to check and like to improve, we have to have good oversight, we have to have good training, which I've pointed out, we have to have respect, and we have to have high ethical standards. But I think we have to go back to the quote from Fredrikke Marie Qvam, from 1903, which was also addressed by the Council of State; it is the hold of those added that will be the most important thing – not only those added in mental health protection or in hospitals, but it is the debt of all kindergartens, it is the debt of teachers, the whole workbook and not least of us politicians who are elected to the Stortinget. In addition, of course, we need to improve the availability of professional services, because we know that good and fast supply, easier access to supply, is also important. But I think that when we have this debate, we often forget that the hold is the most important thing, and we need to take more care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1445	I agree with Mr Ludvigsen's statement that attitudes related to this issue are very important. I am concerned that awareness of human rights will be increased among health and social workers working on the issue of coercive measures. That is why we are taking action in relation to it. I believe that this should constitute key elements, for example: both in specialist training and in the training of health professionals in general. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has drawn up an action plan on how to reduce the use of coercive measures and quality assurance, and has also set out to undertake specialist training. Then I just want to say a few words about what we do to people who are demented and people with mental retardation. Training in relation to new legislation in the Patient Rights Act Chapter 4A will be launched from next year. This means that health professionals in municipalities and people with dementia will be given priority in this training. The training framework, called ‘Not required’, will include training in a new regulatory framework in 2008 and a new training video will be produced that follows the training material. Other key instruments to avoid the use of coercion are competence, knowledge building, organisation of service, staffing and treatment methodology. Then I would like to say that in terms of the treatment criterion – which the interpellant had in mind in his main intervention, and which has also been addressed by speakers in this debate – removing it as a basis for the establishment of mandatory mental health protection will mean a major shift in current policies. Today it is such that mental health protection is established in about 90 pst. of the cases based on the treatment criterion, while 5 pst. is carried out in accordance with the hazard criterion alone. When we're going to evaluate such a big conversion, I think it's important to spend some time on it, but I want to underline: no more time than what's necessary. The reason why the government has explained this in the government budget for next year is that we want to record from the Storting in such a big case as this – we want to know what the government has proposed, is an appropriate way to do this. Then it will also be so that the government, and I, will get a better basis to move on with such a complicated theme as this. The whole purpose, no matter what we end up with, is to reduce the use of coercion. Then I also meet what Stortinget had to think especially about this issue, and about the way we have proposed to organise it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1456	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1474	In the summer, Stavanger Evening magazine could tell about a firm doctor who had gone to the stage of looking up the waiting room, where he expressly warned patients not to confide in him anything on the grounds that the practice that NAV seems to want to confirm further, namely that NAV may require the delivery of entire patient records in his work to detect possible social security abuse, makes it risky for patients to confide in their doctor about conditions other than those that the patient believes can be made publicly available. In the same context, the newspaper interviewed one of our leading health experts, who gave a statement that I must say gave me a strong blow. He said, a little simple, the following: It can't do so much from or to, because the duty of confidentiality has already been eroded. And then he added: If we want a welfare state, we cannot claim privacy for the individual at the same time. That, in my opinion, is very worrying. If we really have come so far that we are faced with the choice between an inclusive welfare state that can demand knowledge of all personal information about each of us for procedural purposes, or respect for the inherited duty of professional secrecy that applies to health professionals, then we are really bad out there. I hope in the longest team that that choice is not a real choice. Let me remind you that the obligation of professional secrecy is in a very advanced position as well as in the law on health professionals and health professionals' duties, as in the law on patients' rights. It is a very clear signal to me that the legislator, i.e. this assembly, has considered that the obligation of professional secrecy is a fundamental condition for the trust between the individual patient and the individual treating physician to be of fundamental importance, and simply an indispensable condition for healthcare to perform a satisfactory job. Paragraph 21 of the Health Personnel Act, etc. of 2 July 1999 says: ‘Health professionals shall prevent’ — i.e. not just to be involved — ‘that others are given access or knowledge of information about the physical or illness of people or other personal conditions that they are told about in their capacity as health professionals’. That is a very strong wording. Then, in the nearest paragraphs, there are some clarifications as to which exceptions can be thought of from this general rule. The most important of these exceptions is that they all require the consent of the patient concerned. If the patient agrees to do so, the general obligation of professional secrecy may be limited. The 1999 Act on Patients’ Rights states the corresponding heading that corresponds to this: ‘Right to protection against the dissemination of information’. ‘The particulars of physical and medical conditions and other personal data shall be processed in accordance with the applicable provisions on professional secrecy. The information shall be treated with caution and respect for the integrity of the information to which it relates.’;» That is a perfectly clear wording. In other words, from the perspective of the patient and from the point of view of the health professionals, Norwegian law provides that professional secrecy applies to the type of information described in the legal paragraphs. As far as I can understand, it is not possible to argue that a practice in which the social security system may require the delivery of entire patient records for procedural purposes can in any way be brought into line with these provisions of the Patient Rights Act and the Health Care Act. It's simply a full collision course. One excludes the other. When the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion has now sent out to the hearing a proposal which will make access even more unlimited to obtain information on health issues related to confidentiality in order to control the possible use of social security or the possible use of existing provisions by individuals, and I believe that this is an entirely unsustainable contradiction between what is said in part of the legislation and what is said in another part of the legislation. Here I come to my question to the Council of State. It may seem improperly that what has happened here is a version of – I had just said – the only Norwegian practice that is clearly in line with the Holy Scriptures, that is, with the word that says that one hand should not know what the other person is doing. I hope for the longest time that the Minister of Health has not known and been aware that this proposal has been sent to the hearing in that form. I am seriously concerned that the internal communication in the Government seems to be so poorly developed that this has not been clarified before sending such a bill to the hearing. For me, it must be the duty of the Minister of Health to be the closest professional in relation to the law on patient rights and the law on health professionals to protest against such a dramatic undermining of the obligation of professional secrecy as that contained in this proposal. I allow myself to refer to the Data Protection Authority's hearing opinion of 15 October, which I must say is very strong reading. The following are read: ‘For the purposes of supervision, it appears noteworthy that NAV should have further access to patient records, in order to investigate possible social security fraud, than the police have in order to investigate killings.’ “Remarkable” is a rather weak word in this context. But I assume that it is an intentional substatement on the part of the Data Protection Authority. The Data Protection Authority also says: ‘The most problematic issue of the proposal is the almost unlimited access of NAV to complete and unedited patient records. For the purpose of data protection, it is important that the use of non-health records is kept to a minimum. It is essential that any request for disclosure be justified and that only relevant information be provided. To the extent that information is provided, it is important that the patient understands this." What the Data Protection Authority here considers to be a reminder is, in fact, what is written in the Health Care Professional Act and in the Patient Rights Act. I hope this matter will be stopped before the Stortinget possibly agrees with a bill of the kind that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has sent out to the hearing, and I sincerely hope that the Minister of Health will help us to avoid such a serious accident at work as the one you understand the contours of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1520	I agree with the representative's remuneration that professional secrecy is a supporter of our healthcare. The whole purpose of this obligation of professional secrecy is to protect the integrity of the patient and to ensure the confidence of the population in our healthcare system. It must be clear that patients should be able to seek health care when they need health care, without being afraid that the information will be passed on to people who do not need to know about it. It would simply not be possible to operate a proper healthcare system if it were to be such that health professionals do not enter the necessary information in the records or that the patient avoids providing the necessary information of fear of unauthorised acquisition. This is why health professionals have such strict rules on professional secrecy. All patient information collected in the healthcare system is subject to precisely these provisions. This also applies between health professionals. This means that patient information may only be provided or disclosed to others when expressly provided for by law, or clearly provided by law or by law that the obligation of professional secrecy does not apply. Thus, all exemptions from professional secrecy are provided for by law, as the Storting is of course aware, and are justified by important considerations. Legal exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy shall mean either the right of healthcare professionals to disclose information or their obligation to disclose it. I would like to mention some examples of exemptions from the rules on professional secrecy. An important type of exemption from professional secrecy is when healthcare professionals cooperate on the treatment of a patient. Cooperation between healthcare professionals is in the patient’s interest and may take place without prejudice to professional secrecy. Another type of derogation is justified by the need for control and supervision by State authorities. In such cases, the patient concerned is not taken into account but the control authority or supervisory authority is required to be able to carry out its tasks properly. The State Health Authority and the National Audit Office are examples of supervisory bodies that have access to patient information without confidentiality. However, the exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy in § 21-4 of the Swedish Social Security Act is justified by the fact that NAV needs health information to check whether a person is entitled to social security benefits and to reveal any abuse of such benefits. A third type of derogation is different types of disclosure obligations given to address emergency situations, to address serious criminal offences or to care for young people who are living under serious care failures. In addition, the regulatory framework contains different reporting obligations, including: the obligation to notify central health records. We now have 13 central health records. All are established under the Health Register Act, including the Norwegian Patient Register and e-Recept, to which the representative refers. All health records have clearly defined purposes for which the information can be used and for whom it is to be used. The Health Register Act requires any use of health information to have an explicitly stated purpose and that only a person shall process information relevant and necessary for that purpose. Data shall preferably be processed without person-identifiable characteristics. Reasons shall always be given where personal identification is necessary. The person handling data in central health registers is bound by professional secrecy under the Health Personnel Act and the Administrative Act. Most of our health records have a regulatory ban on the use of information for specific purposes. I intend to adopt a regulation on the Norwegian patient registry before Christmas. It is proposed that information from the Norwegian Patient Register should not be used for insurance purposes, by the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Court of Justice, or by employers. An important purpose of the prohibition is that no one should feel pressured to ask for access to the register for the purpose of disclosing information for use for insurance purposes, by the prosecution authority or the court. The Norwegian patient registry is, as you know, a person-identifiable register. This does not mean that person-identifiable data are openly available in the register. Directly identifiable data shall be stored encrypted in the register. It is clear from the legal text. Patients are not registered with names in the register. Only a small number of Norwegian patients register staff have access to information in the register, and only to the extent necessary for their work. Employees who are able to do their work without direct access to information in the register do not have access. Everyone who processes information in the Norwegian patient register is bound by professional secrecy about everything they get to know. Among the very few people who may have access to information in the Norwegian patient register, there are even fewer people who can access the personal data. All processing of data is regulated through access controls, security clearance, logging, electronic tracks and requirements for authorised access. In addition, the data supervision shall have enhanced the oversight of the register. I believe that a person-identifiable register is better able to ensure the good quality of the data collected than is possible in an anonymous register. It is also an important aspect of personal and patient protection. In the case of the electronic receptor intermediary, it will, in accordance with the draft regulation which has recently been consulted, communicate prescription information between actors entitled to receive such information. They also have that in their present order. Therefore, the establishment of the Agency is not presumed to entail a change in the obligation of professional secrecy. NAV cannot be provided with information from the Agency. However, NAV will still have access to information from the pharmacies to verify that the reimbursement conditions for blue prescription are met. Access to such information shall be independent of whether the pharmacy receives the prescription as a paper prescription or as an electronic prescription from the Agency. I am very serious about the information that patient information from NAV has come to a balance, as it has been communicated in the press. As I said at the outset, healthcare cannot operate properly if people do not trust that patient information is treated confidentially. The Social Security Act § 21-4 which regulates this is known as under the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. I have been in contact with the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on the handling of data related to silence in the Working and Welfare Act, NAV. As I have been informed, it is rare that NAV needs transparency in full patient records. NAV also says that they take a very serious view of the claims made on the floor in later times. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has therefore asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to take the necessary steps to ensure that the department complies with the requirements of the law. The norm is that only ‘required information’ can be collected. Reasons shall always be given where it is necessary to collect identifiable information. I also think it is important to be aware that an increasing number of legal exceptions may lead to a breach of the obligation of professional secrecy. In the worst cases, this could lead to people in need of health care not contacting the healthcare system or providing less information than is necessary to obtain the necessary and proper treatment. As I see it, the need to be able to maintain a healthcare service that is trusted by patients should be more important when we are to assess exceptional provisions. Legal exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy should therefore be well justified. In this respect, it is worth noting that, as a general rule, professional secrecy does not prevent disclosure of information if the patient agrees. Acquiring consent can therefore be a good alternative to making exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy. So back to the question of whether I believe the obligation of confidentiality and the trust in confidentiality in the healthcare system is well cared for as the duty of confidentiality is practiced today. I think that the rules in themselves are clear enough, but no matter how the legislation is, we are totally dependent on people following the legislation that is actually there. Today’s provisions on professional secrecy do not state clearly that it is prohibited to apply for information in patient information subject to professional secrecy unless information is required for the provision of the service. I believe that is a weakness in today's law, which I want to do something about. Therefore, by the end of this year, the government will make a proposal for the Storting with proposals for legislative changes to the Health Personnel Act and the Health Register Act, which clearly states that it is prohibited to acquire patient information and health information without the need for it in the service — that is, an explicit ban on patient journal nodding. I believe that we need to deal with these issues in such a way that all patients can seek healthcare in a secure manner that unauthorised persons do not have access to information about their personal circumstances. I also refer to the contact with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion on the management of silence-related data in NAV, so that the legal certainty of patients can be ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1565	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and in particular for what came out at the end, that she intends to make proposals to strengthen the position of professional secrecy. I'm not going to go into and comment on everything that has to do with the Patient Register Act and all of those things, because we've discussed that relatively recently in the Stortinget, but rather focus attention on my follow-up question about the very concrete, namely the relationship between the People's Rights Act and the Patient Rights and Health Act. The Council of State is probably aware of the correspondence between the Data Protection Authority and NAV on this, where NAV explains its practice. I almost have to say that the answer from NAV makes me even a little more worried, because it is said that it is quite rare that you need all patient records – and then you justify it because it leads to more work and is impractical, and therefore you do not obtain the entire patient records in many cases. That reason is ominous, because, as I said in my main post, I am unable to imagine one single case in which NAV rightly has the right to obtain a complete and unedited patient record – not one single case. Therefore, I hope that it will be clarified in this process that it will not happen, simply. The reality is that the cases where NAV has done this, and probably also in the future wants to do it, are not where a social security seeker is suspected of having unclean flour in the bag, but it is in those cases where one suspects doctors for the default of his practice. You can understand that, but it doesn’t make it any better if a doctor’s lack of professional skills is aged at the expense of patients – i.e. it is the patients who may have to pay for the suspicion that is actually directed against the doctor. Therefore, I believe that it must be clearly and clearly notified to NAV that NAV needs to resolve its information needs and research needs in these matters in a way other than by going the way of delivering patient records. I'd like to hear if the Council of State can't share that opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1582	Let me first repeat that with regard to the specific case that has been raised in relation to NAV, where it has been revealed that NAV has obtained patient records without sufficient grounds for doing so, and that the administrative law’s requirements for obtaining such documents have not been complied with, I am informed that the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion has seized it and asked NAV to avoid such an infringement. So to the question of what happens now. Then I would like to say very clearly that, as a starting point, I think it is unfortunate to give insurance companies and other financial institutions access to information obtained from patient records without the patient's consent. In my opinion, a routine warning right between NAV and insurance companies could create uncertainty among patients about how sensitive information is handled in NAV. I therefore believe that the NAV’s right of alert under the proposed provision should not include sensitive patient information obtained from the patient record, and we are in dialogue with the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1589	I perceive that the representative's salary in his interpellation addresses a wide range of issues related to, among other things. professional secrecy, consent, health records and confidentiality in the healthcare system. I want to focus a little bit on the debate on health records, mainly Norwegian patient registers, but first let me link some general comments to some of the topics that the interpellant raised. I, of course, share the emphasis of the inter-pellant on the central value of professional secrecy in the healthcare sector, which the Council of State has also stressed. New technologies provide us with new opportunities in a number of areas – as well as new policy challenges. This could be done, for example, by: security solutions concerning new forms of payment on the Internet or may apply in relation to debates on justice policy. I think, among other things: on the possibility of DNA registries and debates related to surveillance and security versus privacy. I think we can agree that new technology may give us the most new, demanding debates in health policy, among other things. because health information is often extra sensitive. It is particularly important to ensure safe solutions to health information so that they do not compromise. Good and verifiable solutions for the exchange of information are essential to maintain patient confidence in the systems and in the health information services. Of course, it is important that these solutions are of the best quality, and it is natural that balances between, for example: research and privacy are the subject of political debate. For me, it is important to note that no patient registry has been established for the sake of the registry itself, but because of the possibilities provided by the registry, while the security solutions must be of such a nature as to assess the need for privacy that has been maintained. New electronic registers are by themselves not something we should fear, but something we should rejoice about. In order to create so-called identity-identifiable registers, the Bill must be passed in Stortingen – giving us new solutions as politicians the opportunity to assess whether we want to benefit from the benefits provided by such registers, or whether we choose not to create them because of other reasons. It is up to us to decide what we want to go for – and as part of that assessment, of course, we as responsible politicians have to look at the safety related to the use of current solutions before we possibly give green light to make use of the health care solutions. The Norwegian patient register can provide central information that could not otherwise be produced, e.g. on the relationship between treatment and late-onset effects — information that, in turn, can help to improve patient treatment and perhaps even save lives. At the same time, the Norwegian patient registry will be one of the world's safest records in terms of security solutions. A number of mechanisms are put in place to prevent the diversion of information. In addition, logging systems will show who has access to health records at all times. Then, at last, there was no real political disagreement about the establishment of a Norwegian patient register as a person-identifiable register, even if it could work like this, cf. the extensive debate we had. The disagreement about the options that were voted on in the Chamber, dealt, as far as I can remember, whether the encryption should be done internally or externally. Then everyone who was in favour of the decision on the Norwegian patient registry must stand together to share both the honor and the responsibility for it. The possibilities and challenges are always interrelated. No one can go for the possibilities provided by the registry without at the same time assessing the security, and no one can oppose the establishment without simultaneously assessing the reasons for the registry to be established. One cannot focus only on one or the other without looking at the arguments for and against in a context. Finally, although I am personally strong for the creation of a Norwegian patient registry as a person-identifiable register, and although I believe that a good decision was made in this regard, I am aware that a person can easily be blinded by the possibilities offered by the patient registry. We need counterpowers and agencies that can help to look at the matter in a different perspective. Data supervision is an important body in this context. Finally, as politicians, it is up to us to make the final legislative decisions after consultation rounds where reality is produced from several teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1617	The interpellant addresses a very important issue, namely what is going on in privacy, versus what the big community and the public need information in order to do their job, and what they are set to manage and do. The important thing here is just to find the right balance in relation to these points, so that you actually don't feel that privacy comes unnecessarily in a pre-requisite situation. In the case of Norwegian patient registers, problems arise when you can co-operate and cross-check several of the different health records we actually have. That's when you can really put this in perspective, and that's when we need really powerful mechanisms that can prevent the individual from getting hit in the last instance. It's not going to get away from the fact that in a number of different contexts, we see constant challenges to privacy – the way we pay our goods when we shop on the Internet, in banks, toll stations, everywhere. We're actually about to end up in a situation where our privacy comes into disrepute. What's special about this situation is just how dependent we are on the trust between doctor and patient. If the patient feels afraid to give out all the information to the doctor — so that the doctor can make his or her decisions in relation to the patient’s treatment itself — because it can get into other instances, people who have nothing to do with this, we will find ourselves in a situation where the trust between the doctor and the patient is simply weakened. Then we're bad out to drive. This is where we have to find mechanisms to prevent that from happening. Patient journalism, on which the Council of State was involved, is incredibly important to prevent. If we get such a ban, I think this whole hall is going to cheer. I am reasonably sure that we will be able to find a solution quickly, precisely in order to prevent information from drifting away. What's it like out there today? Now we hear that proposals have been sent to consult on whether all patient records should be sent to NAV. Like the interpellant, I can see no reason why NAV should be able to keep up with the entire patient records. It is not always the case that the objective of disclosing possible abuse of social security by doctors should be at the expense of the close relationship of trust – a relationship of trust between doctor and patient. That's what's going to happen here. That's what we really have to stop in a proper way. We cannot feel that when you go to the doctor you have to assess whether or not you dare to inform a treating doctor. Can the information be used wrong? Can my neighbour in the NAV office suddenly have access to my health information, when medicines are to be obtained, when reimbursement is to be given? Many people are also given the opportunity to see what is wrong with the patient. We have to have a good and strong protection for the individual patient, and for what information to pass on. We can't have it that you're in doubt about whether what you're giving out can get on the wrong hands. In fact, it will also damage our registers in the long term, because as long as you know that these registers can be collated, removed and personally identified, you will also be able to get into a situation where you don't actually publish the information you should have given. Interpellant travels a very important issue. I look forward to having a number of debates in this Chamber in the future that focus on privacy and how best to ensure privacy – including in an information society in which we live.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1636	I am pleased that the representative Inge Wohnning addresses this important issue. The information in the patient records is of a sensitive nature. Often, the information is provided in a situation based on trust between treatment and patients. That is why we have strict rules on professional secrecy. However, patient information on a weighing basis may have a significant impact on the individual concerned. The patient record is essential for the provision of adequate health care to the patient. The history of disease and the identification of symptoms, risk factors, family conditions and test responses are of great importance for the treatment to be implemented. Especially for patients who cannot do well for their own medical history, this is crucial. These conditions call for the journal to be available to those who need it in the course of treatment. On the other hand, the availability helps to obtain it from unauthorised persons who are not required to have access to the file. It is therefore important that we, as ombudsmen of the people, make sure that the health care system is organized to ensure that personal patient information is not compromised. The obligation of professional secrecy shall ensure that the protection of privacy in the healthcare system is ensured. Health care must be provided in such a way as to satisfy both the requirement of professional soundness and the obligation of professional secrecy. The obligation of professional secrecy under the Health Care Professional Act Section 21 implies that health professionals and businesses have an active obligation to prevent others from accessing the patient information. Section 16 of the Health Register Act requires the controller to provide adequate information security with regard to confidentiality, integrity, quality and accessibility through planned and systematic actions. The information that NAV should be able to obtain patient records has, of course, been a source of debate. The Data Protection Authority calls this a blank authorisation for NAV to obtain information that they consider relevant at all times, including about persons other than the beneficiary. The obligation of professional secrecy will lose much of its reality, says Sverre Engelschiøn of the Data Protection Authority in its consultation opinion to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion on 15 October this year. In other words, this is about privacy and patient safety. The Data Protection Authority also refers to the 2005 Data Protection Survey, where a total of seven out of ten asked were of particular importance for the protection of health information. A majority also disagreed that health information was exchanged without their own consent, even for treatment purposes. In other words, the data protection study clearly shows that Norwegian citizens regard the health information in the patient record as very sensitive. The Medical Association – the Norwegian Medical Association – also responds to this proposal and works to prevent local social security offices from deciding which journals to read. President Torunn Janbu of the Medical Association says to Today's Medisin on October 25: ‘The journal is the patient’s property and the doctor’s work tool. It ensures good and safe patient treatment, but the question we are asking is whether the patient can rely on the doctor with certainty that confidential information becomes with the doctor if the proposal is adopted.» In the debate that has taken place after the legislative proposal has been presented, many important objections to the proposal have been raised. If you read the Medisin of the Day on 25 October this year, it might seem that the Government has different approaches to this matter. The government has not clarified the different considerations between the need for NAV to reduce social security abuse and the need to safeguard the patient’s safety so that sensitive information is not compromised. I expect the government to take these important objections seriously, and that the final decision will be so that people can be absolutely sure that they can get help without fear of sensitive but nevertheless important information about them coming to a balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1660	It is important that we engage in the debate on the exchange of patient information between health care actors and between health services and social security authorities, with the starting point of the representative for Wage, namely the question of whether we put the protection of privacy under strong pressure in the development we have. It is obvious that we are in a society where access to information and exchange of information are becoming more and more simple, more and more easily, and the individuals on whom information is exchanged are becoming more and more vulnerable. So it's perfectly clear that privacy considerations are becoming central to future debate on health care solutions and between health care and welfare authorities. Electronic recording of patient records has been seen primarily as a formidable opportunity for faster and more effective exchange of patient information – which is essential for good treatment – between primary and hospital care, not least. Some people know the dramas that have been related to patient records and epicrisis that hospitals have not been able to get in time, which have not been communicated to primary doctors and have led to mistreatment. It benefits everyone that we can get an effective exchange of patient information in such contexts. Then I see that in principle there is another type of consideration when we are going to exchange patient information between the treatment unit and, for example, the treatment unit. the social security system, because the use of the information is of a different nature than ensuring that the patient is well-being. It may also be of a controlling nature, and it is in a completely different way important that the patient or client understand how information is used. The representative of the Wages and salaries referred to a matter that we receive for treatment when the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has carried out its work. We get to get back to it. Let me still refer to a dilemma that we're facing. We have had a debate on whether NAV should have its own social security partners to replace primary doctors, in order to have a stronger control over, for example, in its work. disability and the medical basis of the decisions to be taken by NAV. There are considerable consequences to the work done by NAV in this context. So far we've rejected this. We have considered it so important that the prescriber, who is closest to the patient, should also be a premiscuous supplier when assessing patient information in a different context than treatment. If we put too tight a frame here, we might get in the situation that the patient is becoming the most vulnerable because one loses the support one has in his own primary doctor as a premiscuous supplier into the procedure to be done by the social security authorities. It is also part of a comprehensive assessment of how we handle these matters. I think at least we have to conclude that electronic patient records, electronic exchange of information is a good thing in itself, but then we have to deal with all the dilemmas that result from it, in a way that makes vulnerable people not even more vulnerable and victims of a society that does not take privacy seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1675	I am very pleased that Inge Wohnning has taken up this theme. If the representative had not done so, I think the left would have done so. We are very concerned about the development associated with the dissemination of all these huge electronic archives with private information that is now available in the healthcare sector, in the NAV system and many other places in society. The horror stories that the representative on the pay side told us, don't make us worry less. I saw yesterday at the Evening Post that Avinor had a suggestion that one should have a security check at the airports where one should scan people into the leg. It only shows you how the handles can be. That one might come up with something like that, in my view, is quite unlikely. That one should simply have said all kinds of information – both in terms of physical and mental – about each one, it sounds terrible. One might have wished that there were more in the Chamber during such an important debate as this, on privacy and confidentiality, but it has our themes several times in this Chamber. In any case, the left has drawn it up in five different representative proposals. Recently, we have been in the Chamber of the Commission on Privacy, Privacy in the Transport Sector, Processing of Personal Data in the Data Protection Act, the Health Register and Privacy and Health Insurance and Privacy. It's a lot of area where privacy, confidentiality and health information are tangential to each other, and I think it's important that we finally manage to have a big debate that includes more than us in the room now. So let's see what's drawn up here about NAV and the coupling there. When it comes to this proposal for new legislative proposals that have been put to the hearing, I have to say that it is alarming, as the representative Salaries said, that the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Labour and Inclusion – as it seems – have not spoken together while the distribution has been under way. On behalf of the Left, I asked the Minister of Health about the interface between privacy and the NAV system's control needs only one month ago, on 11 October. In reply, the Minister of Health says that she will take the initiative to cooperate with the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion to find solutions that ensure privacy in a good way. What is special is why the Minister of Health and Health had not taken this initiative in advance. One would probably have gotten a better plank when the matter was to be passed on. But why is privacy not taking greater care before a new legal text is sent out to the hearing? At least that's what's going to be the weird thing about this whole thing. I will not repeat all these stories I have read in the papers that NAV has come on the track specifically and required complete journals. In my opinion, it is almost completely incomprehensible that they should have it. There are several people who have said that. Not least the representative on the payroll had a description of what I share 100 pst. What we need to figure out is the question of where the fundamental issues of legal certainty and privacy are. We have had an interpellation debate before today on the use of coercion. We're talking about human rights, and we're talking about the invasion of weak people. When we talk about privacy, we don't least talk about tausheit-related information that individuals have given to someone else in the past. Then you see it's an invasion. What's going on in this society? The Minister of Health and Health spoke before today of the fact that promises and rules are not adequate and that attitudes are important. But not least, the Government has to show a clear attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1693	It's been an interesting debate. I am also going to refrain this time from addressing the more general issues related to the register, research purposes and those things, and just carefully clarifying to the representative Tegen what the disagreement consisted in when it came to the establishment of the Patient Register. It consisted in, from the point of view of us who were in a minority, that the majority chose the least secure of the technical solutions available. So for the most part, the representative Sundsbø talked about a dilemma in the relationship between the need of the social security system to combat social security abuse and the interest in privacy. I'm not willing to use that term. It's probably more a matter of weighing the weightier factor. Everyone must agree that the social security system needs to counter social security abuse – of course! But the question is whether we are willing to accept that it means giving green light to working methods that invade personal integrity in a way that in other contexts we would not dream of accepting. As the Data Protection Authority refers to — we do not accept it in terms of police access to obtain transparency in the resolution of killings. For me to see, there is no doubt about how this balance must fall out. It must fall out in favour of the protection of personal integrity. Therefore, I could imagine challenging the Council of State perhaps at last to clarify my view of the health professionals' definition of professional secrecy. Section 21 says: ‘Health professionals shall prevent others from gaining access to, or knowledge of, information about, people’s physical or physical conditions or other personal conditions known to them in their capacity as health professionals.’;» For my part, I generally don't have much sense of what a little unpresist is called civil disobedience, but in this area I have to say that I have a very great sense of civil disobedience. If a regular refuses to deliver patient records to NAV, it is a position that has my full and full respect. Is that a position that also has the full respect and respect of the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1707	With regard to Ludvigsen's statement that the Government must have a clear view, I believe that I have tried, even from the pulpit today, to express a very clear position on this matter, namely that it is important as far as possible to protect the obligation of professional secrecy, because, as many speakers have also been involved in this debate, we are totally dependent on the trust between the patient and the treating physician and other healthcare professionals. There is no doubt – and the representative Sundsbø and others were involved – that there are challenges in the world in which we live, in connecting journals. That is why we have our own rules for this. So to the claim from the representative's salary in terms of patient records and the solution that the majority in this room chose. If I heard correctly, the representative Salaries said that the majority ‘elected the least secure solution’. That's a statement I can't subscribe to. The government – and I also perceived the majority in this room – felt that it was very important to maintain privacy in all health records. I believe it is possible to ensure that privacy is properly protected even with the registry solution chosen by the majority in this room. Direct person identifier characteristics shall, for example: stored encrypted in the new registry. It is also proposed that the information should not be used as I see it that the representative, and many with him, are concerned about, for insurance purposes, by the prosecution authority, court or employer, the vessel of the registered consent. So finally, on the question of NAV, I have expressed my position on it in previous articles. I just want to repeat that we have a good dialogue with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion on the matter, which is now at the hearing. We have recorded hearings that have come from many, not least from the Data Protection Agency, and I hope and believe that we will find a good solution to that issue too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1718	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1736	The system of rotation we have through tradition in the training of doctors in this country is relatively rare compared to most other European countries. At the same time, we know that there is a system that is demanding to maintain. It has a large scale, and its scale is increasing. As of today, we have approx. 900 turns places per turn. In Norway, it is estimated that the number of drug users in the EU has increased by about one year, compared with the number of problem drug users in the EU and the number of problem drug users in the EU and the number of problem drug users in the EU. 1 100 new applicants for the tournament each year. This means already operating with a certain waiting time to get into the scheme. This is particularly true of candidates who have received their education outside Norway, which is a numerically more difficult to estimate exactly than those who are studying at home. In the event of an increase in the incidence and the imbalance, it may be possible that the waiting time will also increase, with the unfortunate consequences that it will have for the individual. However, what is behind my interpellation is the quality content of the tour system. In Norway, we have a special way of selecting people for the medical study, by largely emphasising the theory of skill as a criterion for starting education at all. Not a bad word about theories from my side, but it's not always that it's accompanied with handrails or with antennae. This is one of the reasons why the piece of the tour is as important as it is in order to ensure the quality of medical training, because, ideally, through the tour services, it is necessary to be able to find out the very few candidates who are definitely unfit to perform the practice. It's a marginal size, but it's very important that candidates who may have managed to complete the theoretical part of the education, but who are definitely not suitable for treating patients. What is far more important is that the tour system should both contribute to the safety of the person entering the medical profession and lead to the ability of experienced and skilled professionals to monitor and guide the young candidates so that they can recognise that these candidates are truly fit to perform the job as a doctor. The problem of the tour scheme as it is being practised today is that we do not have any quality assurance of the guidance service. There are no defined requirements for who can undertake to be a supervisor and to the extent that there are at all systematic quality studies, such as: interviews with those who have gone through the tour service suggest that there is a huge variation between what is good, what is mediocre, and what is directly bad. Therefore, my challenge to the Council of State is whether she does not see the need for a supervisory system of some kind and some defined minimum requirements of supervisor competence for those who are to be responsible for the guidance of turnaround candidates. That problem will probably not be very great in the specialist health service, because there will of course most hospitals have doctors who are fully qualified within the various specialities professionally, but there may be a significantly higher requirement in ensuring the quality of the district part of the tour training. The reason I have traveled this interpellation right now is that in the care message, as the Stortinget dealt with in our house, we got a clear indication from the Government that plans are being made to provide hospital services as a mandatory part of the tour service. The goal of this can be shared. We all know that it is important to stimulate young, middle-aged and elderly doctors to want to work in a nursing home. At the same time, I am fundamentally doubtful whether this is a proper instrument, as long as the situation in the health care sector is such that at most hospitals there will be no qualified supervisors at all. Qualified guidance requires physical presence and, once again, requires the presence of experienced and competent doctors in hospitals who can provide guidance, and, not least, who can be backup, to say it in good Norwegian, in cases where a young and inexperienced doctor will feel on a sweeping basis. And if young and inexperienced doctors don't feel on rocking grounds in the handling of the clientele that is currently in Norwegian nursing homes, it is itself disqualifying. We know that Norwegian health care providers today have on average between six and seven different somatic diagnoses to be treated, and we also know that an increasing proportion is demented and thus unable to speak their own case and are unable to communicate with healthcare professionals in an understandable way. This means that it will definitely be beyond the ability of a newly trained candidate without experience from medical activities to be the sole person responsible for dealing with the situation of sick leavers. Therefore, my question to the Council of State if she does not see the risk that if you do hospital services as a compulsory part of the tour training for young doctors in the current situation, where there is no satisfactory guidance capacity, one thing is likely to be achieved, namely to vaccinate these young doctors during their lifetime against wanting to work in the health care sector. That is to say, there is an imminent danger that one will achieve the exact opposite of what I suppose must be the intention to put this into the compulsory practice training of doctors. Finally, the policy training for newly trained doctors is a demanding challenge for all those who are planning it, institutions, practitioners, etc. But above all, it is an unusually demanding challenge for those who are going to undergo practical training. There have been sometimes small studies that have shown that, among other things, in this group is a dangerously high rate of suicide, and particularly among female turnaround candidates. I interpret that for my part so that, unfortunately, there are too many who, during practical training, experience situations in which they are charged with responsibilities that they do not feel qualified to carry, and without the possibility of seeking help where the help is located.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1751	The representative of Inge Wohnung addresses an important question. The quality of the medical rotation service is of great importance to the skills and attitudes with which they meet their professional life. In the mission paper of regional health companies, I have made clear demands to provide a sufficient number of tour sites and a high-quality tour service. Turners must experience that they receive good guidance during the turn period in health establishments. It is the county that is responsible for the establishment of tour sites in the municipalities and for the professional assessment and approval of these sites. Both health and local authorities are obliged to facilitate the practical services of the tour operators in line with the objectives and legislation. This means that the tour site is responsible for providing the necessary training and guidance. Furthermore, the tour site shall appoint the personal adviser to the tour operator and ensure that the candidate is evaluated on the road and at the end of each tour period. The evaluation is part of the basis for the attestation when the practical service is to be approved. As you know, the authorised tour service is one of several conditions for obtaining authorization as a doctor. In 2006, there were only 15 candidates, i.e. less than 2 pst., of a total of 1486 who did not get their tour service approved. This is a low number that says a lot, I think, about the quality of the tour service, and that the approval system at the tour sites works relatively well. The majority of the tournament doctors are happy with the tour service. It is found in the surveys and evaluations of the medical rotational services. However, there are, as the representative also pointed out, differences between practice in both guidance, access to patients and work. This has been reportedly associated with the fact that the medical students have a tour service in small and large hospitals, in small and large municipalities, in central municipalities and district municipalities. A large majority of the tour operators and tour guides believe that the tour service provides a high level of learning value for the doctor and useful work for the employer. This was demonstrated by the Medical Association’s evaluation in 2006. Turning in a smaller hospital provides more versatile service and practical learning than doing in a larger hospital. The guidance provided also varies between different hospital departments. Psychiatric departments are the best guides to guidance, and the guidance in municipalities is considered to be better than in hospitals. It's a challenge. In a master’s degree project from the University of Tromsø from 2006, a study was carried out on the practical experience and guidance of community health professionals in the course of the tour service. Seven of the eight alternates said they were satisfied with the instructions. Most people thought that they had sufficient experience in general medicine. Despite good evaluations, there are still challenges related to the guidance of medical practitioners in hospitals. I agree. In particular, this indicates that this applies to surgical departments. We are therefore now working on establishing group-based guidance in hospitals, following the model offered in the municipalities. Hospitals in Vestfold, Sogn and Fjordane and Trondheim are well-informed with such experiments. The number of turn doctors has increased in the last few years. In 2008, there will be about 900 medical practitioners in hospitals and about 450 in the municipalities. Most of the time, there are some candidates who withdraw after the deadline for registration, so that the jobs that receive turnaround doctors cannot be 100 pst. ensure that the tour operators arrive at the start of the tour. It is understandable that employers need predictability. I have commissioned the Social and Health Directorate to review all parts of the Tour Service in the context of the evaluations that have been carried out, and they have been given a deadline for this review in the spring of 2008. The representative's salary refers to Regieninga's work on the rotational service in an infirmary. As you know, I announced in the care message – and the representative Wohnning pointed out – that during the winter I would send a proposal for a change in the turnaround regulation. Here we propose that hospital services be compulsory. This is also in line with the Budget indent. S. No 11 for 2005-2006, where the Committee stated that geriatrics and the entire age medical area had to be considered as part of the rotational services of doctors. Studies show that there are between 10 pst. and 30 pst. by the tour operators who have not been in hospital during the tour service of the municipal health service. That means that most people actually get practiced at a nursing home during the tour. Today’s practice will thus become visible in legislation and target description. However, it is very important that we also include the tour operators who do not get such a service today. The government wants everyone to have this opportunity. I would like to point out the importance of competence in old age medicine for doctors in almost all medical specialities. It is not only the general practitioner of the hospital or the internal practitioner who needs such competence. Ortope, eye doctor, neurologist, psychiatrist and other specialists also have patients with age-medical problems. This is increasing in our country. This subject is so important, as I see it, that I see it desirable that all tour operators receive guidance and practice in general medicine early in their professional life. Age medicine, including the speciality of geriatry, seems to have a low performance among doctors, and it is difficult to recruit for this important subject. This has been documented several times, e.g. in an article in the recent journal of the Medical Association. In this study, geriatri consolidates his position as one of the lowest ranked specialities. The authors point out that the interest in specialization wakes up early in the study period. So, as I see it, it's important to present the field of advanced medicine to everyone who's going to be a doctor, before they have to choose what to specialise in. In summary, I believe that the guidance and follow-up of the tour doctors is well on the way, but not at all satisfactory in all areas and in all parts of the country. I will come back to any action I may have received from the Social and Health Directorate's review of the Tour Service, which will come to the next spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1781	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to add some further comments to that. The Council of State referred to the number of candidates who are being silled from year to year, which represent at the base of 2 pst., and drew on that basis some conclusions that seemed to me to be perhaps a little fast. It is difficult to draw a certain conclusion to such a number as long as you have no opportunity to check whether that job is done equally conscientiously and equally competent by all the responsible supervisors. There is a certain risk, in all professions, that mercy is allowed to go to justice, i.e. in cases of doubt, the person who is to stamp the document granting a licence shall be entitled to the benefit of the doubt. In this context, I believe that principle should not apply. Here, the doubt is to benefit the patients. If you were to form a safer impression of the quality of this piece of authorization, you had to check the cases where doctors, often early in their careers, are deprived of the license. For my opinion – and it comes back a little bit to my years at the university, where we discussed professional training – that in most cases where professionals are deprived of the licence, they say, as they knew the person in the course of education, that they could have said in advance that it was going to go wrong. So I'm not simply reassured by the Council of State's assurances at this point. That is why I repeat the question: does the Council not see the need for national criteria in respect of minimum requirements for guides who are allowed to stamp on the paper granting a licence? And then to the second question. We agree that it is important to stimulate a stronger interest in geriatry and general medicine, and not least in the interest of older people in general medicine. There we are 100 pst. Any. My question was, is it then an appropriate instrument explicitly to enter some time-defined stay specifically in hospital institutions? It is true that this is a part of the community medical service, but if you substitute it that way, you insist on putting young doctors in a situation where in most cases there is no supervisor in the vicinity at all, purely physical, and where it is not easy to summon a supervisor in any case. Therefore, my question was whether this is not more suitable to scare people away from this field than to make the field attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1792	First of all, the question of the 2 pst. falling from, whether there is an indication that the tour service and the arrangement are good. I believe at least that the number should have been much higher if it was such that the tour service was completely miserable, but I have not realized that the representative of the payroll has claimed it. That being said, I would say that I believe that within many occupational groups we can find people who should have done something different than what they're actually trained to do. It certainly also applies in the medical profession. In the case of nursing homes, I believe it is important that all doctors should have a certain practice at home. It's because we live in a time how many live much longer. We've had a lot of debates on that, and that's great. But it is quite obvious that there are also some challenges to which we are going to offer, both in our hospitals and in our hospitals. I think it's important. The majority already have a certain practice at our nursing homes, so I believe that our proposal will impose it on everyone, if there is a majority for it, will not be suitable to scare people away from nursing homes. And it's been said that the tourists who are today in the hospital, and who, on our proposal in the future, have to be there, work under the municipal doctor in each municipality and are going to receive guidance from it. I'm not saying that everything is perfect, there are certainly more areas where this can get better, but it's also that the county doctor is responsible for the places and also for their supervision. When it comes to the general question of guidance, if I understood the representative correctly, I will await the evaluation of the Social and Health Directorate to be included in the spring next year. I want to include the input that comes into this debate, and certainly other debates, before we make a guide in this area. But I don't want to rule out in any way that there's a need for that. For sail if much is certainly good, there are also in this area perfectly obvious things that can be improved. There are very large differences between some municipalities, between some hospitals and also between small and large municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1803	The interpellant addresses a problem that may be discussed a little too rarely in this room, and not least in the Health and Care Committee. Because in terms of the training cycle, and the tour service is part of the student education cycle, there is a tendency that there are other committees involved in that type of debate. The Health and Welfare Committee is involved to a small extent. So in this context, I'm very pleased with this interpellation, precisely because it gives us an opportunity to discuss some of these issues. There's one thing I think in many ways has been missing, at every preliminary stage, even if it comes at the other end, and that's the patient's position in relation to this. Let's take what the representative on the payroll was attached to infirmary tour service. I think everyone agrees that it would also be positive among doctors to get the status of the geriatric and get people interested in what's going on at the hospital. But if it turns out that it becomes like a balancing item in the education cycle, and not that you actually want to get there because it's interesting, then it might work against its purpose. We are today in a situation where there is probably one doctor per. 180 patients at the nursing home. Then it goes without saying that there is a problem with guidance and follow-up. So the first thing we have to get in place is just a guarantee that the education, follow-up and guidance that's going to be related to the fact that the candidates are going to be in a nursing home is there, before entering into such a system as this. Because it has to be the case that the sickest patients, those in hospital, also have to be sure that the medical services they receive are provided by skilled personnel and personnel with the background to do so. Because it is important to listen to experience. It's important to be able to look for a signal. It's not something that you actually bring with you, it's something that you actually learn through time. I look forward to the work to be done. But at least from our point of view, it is important that minimum standards are put in place as minimum standards for the guidance service to be there — most of all for the benefit of patients, so that they are also guaranteed optimal treatment at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1812	It is an important question for the representative on pay travel, on the quality and professional guidance of turnaround candidates. This is important for both the tour applicants themselves and the patients for whom they are to be responsible during the candidate period, and not least for the professional environment in which they are part. The Committee was, of course, very concerned about this in the context of the review of St.melding by the Storting. No 25 for 2005-2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning. Future care challenges. Here the Government determines that the Ministry will make changes to the Tournament Regulation so that future requirements for hospital services will be made. There is nothing specific about the requirements for competence guidance. This is worrying for several reasons. Already today, we have a great lack of doctors at our nursing homes. The department itself says that very many municipalities have too low medical coverage to meet the requirements of the directorate for good quality. In addition, the number of medical staff in hospitals is very small, creating little continuity in both professional and work-related day-to-day activities. It will also be able to present turnaround candidates with major professional challenges. It should also be mentioned that it is incomprehensible that government parties do not subscribe to the comments of the opposition parties on the establishment of additional positions for medical doctors in hospital homes in the context of the above-mentioned care notification. The nursing homes that have recruited doctors, including those with special training, in all the professions, can refer to a very good professional environment, fewer hospital admissions, good cooperation with the second line service and day-to-day professional good medical watch service. In such an environment it will be safe, safe and hopefully recruiting to receive turnaround candidates. Hospital shelters today are very sick people. Only the sickest people get a nursing home place. They have an average of six to seven different diagnostics each. The lack of other skills staff is also striking in the hospitals. In such a situation, it would be unwise to impose tour services in hospital without ensuring a high level of professional, always available medical guidance service. We still have major challenges in the health care sector. Like the Government, the Committee has been committed to investing more in educational health homes, with close professional links with universities and colleges. This is important in the future with a strong need for increased skills, recruitment and training of several specialists. Guidance from geriatricians and other specialists employed in hospitals and at universities and with doctoral scholarships associated with educational hospitals is needed. But before this is a reality, it may turn out to be a mispractice, both professional and recruitment, to introduce imposed practices in the nursing home of turnaround candidates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1825	It has been established with great certainty that there are considerable differences and differences in quality between the different practices offered in the course of medical training — it is safe. I myself have eleven years of experience from hospitals, and I can sign that the differences have ours and are still probably present. But the Tournament Service is important for the education of the future legacies. They're also a resource for the service locations, as we've heard. One of the factors that have emerged from this study is that there is a difference between the accuracy of these data, the accuracy of these data, in large and small hospitals, and the effectiveness of the small hospitals. I think that's something that we're going to notice, because I think, first of all, the small hospitals, as they say, will have more varied tasks, and one gets to learn more about the small hospitals than about the big ones. But the most important thing is that you come as a tour candidate to a small hospital, a small environment, becomes a sign against open arms. In large hospitals, one is very much seen as a rush in the machinery. At least I have some of those experiences that tell it. The most important thing – we have to talk about attitudes before today and come back all the time – is that the institutions take responsibility for being involved in the teaching of the future talents. The fact that they have the positive hold is a point one. So there has to be a positive attitude in these institutions — we are, of course, also involved in the primary medical system — and one must have a good system. There must be a good attitude on the part of the supervisors. And who are the counsellors here? Well, that's the teachers. I have to say that I have experienced many teachers over time. Although it was at the same school I went, there were different teachers, so this is not easy. The most important thing is that if a person takes up the issues and discusses them, it will be better, I believe. I also believe that as we discuss it here in Stortinget, it will be easier for the Tournament data themselves and their stakeholder organisations to address the issues, so that we can get a more qualitative and good tour service. So a little bit about the tourniquets in hospitals, which have emerged in the debate today. I have to say that I am very much in line with what the representative on the pay side says, that the enemy of the good can best be here. In any case, what's important is that you make it work, you have to have a defensive guidance system. It is to be hoped that a person will be able to prioritize it at the local primary medical offices, so that those who are to be counsellors really take on the responsibility they have to, that they should be good teachers for those who are to work in hospitals, because it is important in the future. But it's a premise: if you're going to make it work, it also has to be a defensive guidance service for those who're going to be in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1838	Why is the theme of this interpellation debate important? Well, it's important because there's no other area where the difference between good practice and bad practice is so vital, even literally vital, as in the case of medical practice. That's why we have the strict licensing and authorisation arrangements that we have, so that people will be allowed to practice as doctors at all. There are many ways in which the tour service is – to say – a gatekeeper function, just to ensure, at the entrance, that those who are given the opportunity to practice as a doctor at their own responsibility and at their own risk are truly qualified to do so. Just cards to the small exchange of views with the Council of State on the number 2 pst. The council said in its second post that the number should be higher if the tour service was poor. I don't follow that logic. This can simply be a sign that the tour service is not good enough in the crucial area called the gatekeeper function. What I tried to clarify was that the requirements of the supervisors and supervisors' independent responsibility when they put their name below need to be further clarified in relation to what is happening today. So, finally, the hospital discussion. My concern is not to restrict the access of doctors to hospitals. Of course not. But I see an imminent risk that, as the situation is, in hospital and elsewhere, turnaround candidates will be even more vulnerable to becoming a balancing item in the employment accounts, to become a resource exploited to meet an acute need for medical intervention, rather than being an educational element in the course of self-employment. The risk would be imminent if this were to be crushed without prior assurance of the availability of qualified guidance. To underline the point even more clearly: I believe that the requirements for qualified guidance must be higher in this field than in any other area, because satisfactory medical care for those who currently live in Norwegian nursing homes makes extremely high demands on what I would call experience-based medical practice. Then it's not enough that you're close to being a random doctor, who's in a community clinic or something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1849	I fully agree that it is important that those who are going to be doctors, and those who are, both have a good education and a good basis for being. In view of this, it is said that the tour service is important, and it is important that it works well enough. I don't see any purpose in continuing the debate on 2 pst. Because there's really none of us who know the phase response to it. What's important to note is that despite the fact that we probably have one of the world's best health services, it happens from time to time, unfortunately, also unwanted events in us. That's what people naturally complain about. These are not many complaints, but those that are, we must take them seriously. What people complain the most about is the way they meet in the health care community. It's an indication – I'm not going to mention professional titles – that there are also some doctors among them that people complain about, who don't meet them with respect and in a proper way. That's for sure. So the basis for becoming something as important as a doctor, is usually very important. In this way, the tour service is also important. Then I hear the representative's salary and more say, and I have noticed what has been said in this debate, that there is a desire to define even clearer requirements for guidance, as I perceive this debate. I won't rule that out. But I want the review – which I have now put the Social and Health Directorate to do, and which comes next spring – on the table before we decide how to proceed. I feel that there is no disagreement that there is a need for good guidance whether you are in a hospital, in a hospital or in a hospital or where you have to be when you are on a tour, and the government will come back to that. I have noted the views expressed in this debate. Then I register that there is some disagreement regarding the question of tour services in hospital. I just want to repeat that the majority already have it today. You can also have opinions about that. For my part, I think it's a big challenge that we have so few doctors in a nursing home. Some of the people we have there, which I've met at least, are incredibly enthusiastic, nice people. But we have an urgent need now, but also in the future, to get more, precisely because we know how the situation is too many of the people who live there and who are going to live there in the future. We have to ask ourselves, how are we going to do that? Professional competence is an important keyword, and good framework conditions are an important keyword. The government has a basic belief that we're going to get more doctors to practice more in hospital homes. We get at least hope that more people will take an interest in the fact that it is also interesting to work in the future. Obviously, there should be good guidance. It shall not be the case that it is the worst doctors to be in a nursing home. I honestly believe that demanding that everyone should have a certain service in a nursing home, under good guidance, can also be a contribution to getting more doctors to work in a nursing home in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13.ana.ud1141e1862	Case No. So 6 is done. The President proposes that the morning meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 9 p.m. 18 to deal with the issues that remain on today's map. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
