ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e131	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e134	On behalf of the representatives Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I am delighted to propose an energy policy action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e139	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e166	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Erling Sande, on behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, on case No. 1 and 2, Magnhild Eia.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e175	The voluntary message is a strong and solid touch to the thousands of fires and participants involved in voluntary organisations throughout the country. It is also right from this pulpit to extend a great deal of thanks to all those who differ, and in different positions, to the great lack and the enormous effort that is so clearly described in the message. With the actions outlined in the message, combined with the creation of the voluntary register, this government has given voluntary action a stronger and more independent platform. The centre party went to cultural and voluntary elections two years ago as important issues for this enlargement period. In the Government Declaration, the party was given the advantage that the work on a new and holistic voluntary policy and the better framework for the voluntary sector should be given priority in the Government’s work. Now we deliver the goods in a message that I am sure will mean a better everyday life for voluntary work and not least a strong recognition of the work being done under the auspices of voluntary teams and organisations throughout the country. I note that this message has been met with an overwhelming positive response from the sector itself. In meetings with both individual organisations and associations that hold several organisations, e.g. Volunteering Norway, the message will be praised. It is therefore strange to record the comments and comments from the opposition party in the option, which contrast sharply with the feedback messages and assessments provided by the sector itself. In the setting, the opposition interprets the very basic idea of the message that I think there is no evidence, and that only tends to derail the debate and obscure the reality. Let me again, therefore, underline the fundamental foundation, namely its self-esteem and self-esteem. Government policies shall facilitate the strengthening of activities and involvement in the voluntary sector. Sale of waffles and hard work builds communities and, therefore, has a value in addition to the purely economic one. But the Center Party wants to give everyone's voluntary greater opportunity to spend their time and commitment to what they've initially said yes to, that's to create activity, and thus less time and energy to raise money in cash. Through the voluntary notification, the Government gives a solid and concrete handshake to the thousands of fires and participants involved in voluntary organisations throughout the country. For the Centre Party, it has been important to listen to what the volunteer organisations themselves experience as challenges. Debureaucratic interaction between organisations and public powers is a high priority. The message thus outlines a new, holistic, voluntary policy that will free up time — and thus resources — for increased activity and less paperwork in teams and associations. It has to be, for example. a systematic monitoring of the reporting and information requirements imposed today by the public on voluntary organisations and, in this context, a proposal for concrete simplifications. Here, there is a challenge both on public administration and organisations themselves to identify non-necessary reporting and administration, and at the same time, a system that ensures that public funds come to their destination. This is one of the greps that shows that the Government wants a more autonomous voluntary sector. Here the Central Party believes that the voluntary register will be a decent travel hub to reduce the need for reporting, etc. Voluntary activities shall be stimulated and developed – not stifled by bureaucracy and poor finances. In the Center Party, we are concerned with practical policies and concrete results. By implementing the measures in the voluntary notification, the Centre Party will continue its efforts to improve the framework conditions for voluntary work, both nationally and locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e196	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e199	It's nice to have the representative Erling Sande in the debate with the family and cultural committee again. In the voluntary notice, much of what happens in the voluntary sector is described very well. At the same time, it's missing, and we had expectations, when you were going to have a holistic review. The representative Erling Sande said that the government has delivered the goods. In a comment in the section, we see that there is a absence in the mandate of the selection to go through the VAT code in the cultural and sporting fields and the voluntary sector, to eliminate VAT compensation, in the sense that zero rate should be paid, if necessary a reduced rate, and the service tax problem. It had many expectations. Here it is clear that many representatives from the Government have spoken in several languages. Many have had expectations that, for example: The zero rate would be paid. But now one thing is clear from the fact that the mandate does not even allow this to be done. What is the Central Party's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e208	I have to admit that the Center Party also believed that this was one of the things that the selection was supposed to do. Now we'll see what the selection comes with, if they talk about these questions. What is at least certain – we cannot go in and regulate the work of such a selection along the way – is that this will be discussed when this matter comes to political handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e213	When entering the voluntary service, it provides a full description of how the voluntary sector can contribute in different areas. It's about assistance. It is about integration and diversity. It concerns inclusion, democratic development, etc. In the further work – because that is what we need to look forward to, there are not so many conclusions here – does the representative Sande realise that these tasks need to be further stimulated, that this work needs to be continued, and that the public can come up with targeted means of how the voluntary sector can address these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e220	The voluntary sector is independent. The state shall not use voluntary sector to achieve policy objectives if no voluntary sector so wishes. I understand the representative Thommessen that he will not exclude the voluntary sector from the arrangements made by the state to achieve policy objectives. At the same time, I think we're some people who believe that, on the side of it, we're going to ensure that volunteer work is a self-contained platform, so that it can develop without having to depend on state promises that require one to meet certain state objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e227	In the big election campaign, I was involved in several political debates with central party people who were very committed to volunteering policy. I believe them. One of the issues raised as a major problem was the red tape of the voluntary sector. That's why, in the opposition, we've been pretty excited about what the Center Party would do to the government in terms of bringing down the bureaucracy. We have been waiting a long time for this message. We've waited so long that we've actually started to get a little impatient. We have thought that the Center Party has probably worked a lot in the Government to bring down the bureaucracy. Today Erling Sande says that it is now going to be a systematic monitoring of bureaucracy. What has been done after a few years in government is to get a systematic survey, which will probably lead to more bureaucracy for organisations where systematic monitoring is to be carried out. Is it time for Erling Sande to admit that he might be a little disappointed in his own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e234	If that were the case, I would have liked to admit it. But that's not the case. The review we are going to have is just going to lead to less bureaucracy for voluntary organisations. The voluntary register we've created should lead to less paperwork, less bureaucracy for voluntary organisations and more time for volunteers to do exactly what they're doing, simply voluntary work, working with what they're interested in, and what they're burning for. I thought it was nice that the Left was insolent after the government reached the goals it has seen. Nothing is better than that. I look forward to the right-wing representative Skei Grande's post, where, hopefully, she will focus on what may have happened in the voluntary field under the government of which the Left was part in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e241	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e245	Let me start with a quotation: ‘Freedom Norway is very pleased that the Freedom Notice has been submitted. The notification contains a comprehensive and thorough review of the voluntary sector and bears the impression that the government has listened to the voluntary nature of its work on the notification.’» In the work on volunteering, we have cooperated very well with large parts of the voluntary sector. It has given a good message, with good descriptions and actions – a message that recognises the invaluable role of voluntary teams and organisations, and a message with many and good actions for the voluntary sector. The message is an answer to the need for a new and holistic voluntary policy, as promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. In the introduction, the quotation was from the Freewill of Norway’s public address to the message. Freedom Norway is a cooperation forum for 150 small and large organisations around, with 2.8 million individual members across the country. The proposals we have put forward and, as we are about to adopt, have been put on the table on the basis of the wishes and influence of the volunteers themselves, from Voluntary Norway, from sport movements, from small and large voluntary teams and organisations. Therefore, it was gratifying and stimulating, I would say, to sit on the hearings in the committee and experience that many parts of the voluntary sector thought that the message was useful and important for all those who, in some form or other, are engaged in voluntary work, and that the feedback has been quite so co-ordinated. It makes us sure that the measures are good and effective for those in debt. Through the message, we recognise voluntary work, primarily self-esteem, but also the sector's great importance to us as a society. The voluntary sector is a channel for engagement and social participation and has a decisive impact on the quality of life, on the community and on the development of a living civil society. That is why we place particular emphasis on the sector itself. The voluntary sector shall develop on its own terms and conditions, guided by voluntary activity itself – because voluntary activity is primarily important in itself and for those who engage. It makes sense to participate, it is felt as important and useful to engage in matters of burning – one becomes both wiser and better. Therefore, perhaps the most important thing with a large and strong voluntary sector is that many people have the opportunity to participate in meaningful activities. In addition, voluntary activities ensure that we achieve important societal goals that voluntary activity creates in itself, such as: democracy and participation, but also social objectives such as health, assistance, care, inclusion and many more. Norway is at the peak compared to other countries when participation in voluntary activities is involved. There are 115,000 teams and organisations across the country, and together, as far as one thing to calculate, over 113,000 annual volunteering is involved. In the course of the year, there are almost six out of ten participating in voluntary work, and we have twice as many memberships in Norway as we have residents. Numbers are in many contexts of little importance, but numbers are at least with and give an insight into and an impression of a large and powerful sector. The Labour Party and the Government Party have set out four principles for the proposals in the message: we want to improve the framework conditions for the voluntary sector; we want to increase the resources of local activity and low-threshold activity; we want to support better and stronger efforts for inclusion and integration; and we want to contribute to more knowledge and research. That is why we are proposing to give NOK 1 billion in compensation for the loss of automatic receipts in 2008 and 2009. We stand by the promise we have given to the voluntary sector. We propose to reduce taxes and charges, so that the limits on when a person has to pay a pay employer’s fee are increased, that the amount of the exemption from payroll obligations and advances are raised, and that the tax deduction on gifts to voluntary organisations be passed on. We extend the limit to pay the employer's fee by 50 pst. from 2008 - from NOK 30000 to NOK 45000 for each employee and from NOK 300000 to NOK 450000 per employee. organization. The exemption limit for payroll and advance payments is extended to double – from NOK 2000 to NOK 4000. These are measures that improve the framework for voluntary activities — and they have asked for it — so that it is easier to recruit and hold good leaders, trainers, conductors, etc., and that more of the time can be spent on activity, not on reporting and bureaucracy. Then we will increase the resources of local activity and low-threshold supply. That is why we are introducing, inter alia: a set of grassroots on Norwegian Typing's games, so that the players can choose to give 5 pst. of the effort directly to their local sports team, their choir, their Red Cross team. We mean it will stimulate the activity and commitment locally, in the individual community, in the individual institutions. It will certainly mean greater revenues for a lot of layers around and make it easier to drive. I have to say that it is quite perceptive that a collective opposition is opposed to a system that – at least as far as I can see – has supported a more or less collective voluntary sector. The fact that a collective opposition is opposed to a decentralisation of gambling media, and that a collective opposition is more direct local impact on the tipping surplus, I believe not least sports and other parts of the voluntary sector will notice. In order for even more of those who are not currently part of the voluntary sector to be able to do so, we need more low-threshold capabilities. Therefore, we also need to strengthen the Free Fund scheme and evaluate it, we need to monitor whether it is possible and necessary to adapt state subsidies even better to new organisational structures, and we want simplifications in relation to, among other things. reporting requirements. A third major challenge is integration and shortages. Voluntary organisations play an important role in promoting disability and including and involving different people with different backgrounds, and they want to do more of it. We want to help, so that the voluntary sector can become even more attractive. We have to raise awareness, and we have to make the relationship right. For this reason, one of the measures is to establish a position of its own under Freedom of Association Norway, which is dedicated to integration work. Freedom Norway has wanted it, we support it, but I see that the opposition is also inconsistent with us in this area. One of the last important areas for us is the need for more knowledge of the voluntary sector. The voluntary sector is constantly changing. It is therefore important, both for the voluntary sector itself and for the authorities, to have up-to-date and good knowledge so that the challenges you face can be addressed in the best possible way. Freedom Norway has been very busy with the need for more research and knowledge. We are a few in it, and from next year we will launch a research project over a three-year period, linked to the voluntary sector. We have paid the first money for the work in the budget. We will learn more about the sector and more about the importance of voluntary enterprise in our society. The design of the project shall be in conjunction with the voluntary sector. I had believed that there would be a great deal of excitement about these principles and measures, as the voluntary sector itself has been so central to the work on the message. But when you read the setting, you get the definite impression that the opposition is actually against what the government says and does. I have nothing against that in my opinion, but that opposition in large words and formulations criticises us for is the same action that voluntary teams and organizations have requested. We have simply listened to the voluntary sector. The opposition's criticism of the Government is therefore a criticism of the voluntary sector. Of course, the opposition is allowed to disagree with the voluntary sector as well, but then one might expect other measures, a different device and a different policy. I don't see that. They come with various claims, but there is no coherent principle or other policy to see. Thus, it might be that there is discrepancy for the discrepancy of guilt that is the most important thing. We see just enough that the Christian People's Party wants a green card scheme, which will oblige the voluntary sector to ensure leisure provision for all in elementary school age. If you ask me, at least it tends to be called an instrumental grip – a contribution to a more autonomous voluntary sector does not. I see that the opposition thinks it's just the instrumental approach that's the problem. At the same time, they call for a government-owned scheme to be set up for the benefit of disabled people’s local organisations. Well, I support that disabled people's local organisations should have good conditions, but this too will be a voluntary sector governance – with their own state grant scheme with clearly defined criteria, other than the schemes we have today. Furthermore, the opposition is opposed to using state money to strengthen the work of including and involving children and young people with a migrant background. At the same time, I see that they share the concern that there are fewer children and young people with ethnic minority backgrounds participating in voluntary activities. There is therefore no link between what the opposition criticises and the proposals – or lack of proposals – that emerge. There were many years of civil government without any volunteering. We've spent the two years we've been running, working with the voluntary sector. Therefore, I am pleased that, in addition to the government party here in the hall, there is great support for the message we are currently processing, outside this hall. I believe that the measures proposed will help facilitate voluntary teams and organisations, more meaningfully, and that even more people will be able to participate in voluntary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e288	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e291	It was fun to be at the hearing," said the representative Johnsen. I'm not quite sure if we've been to the same hearing in connection with the volunteering. We heard about large non-governmental organisations that have to operate on up-to-date funds. For example, companies such as the Rescue Company must use their funds for normal operation. We're not doing anything without the rescue company in Norway, is it not a little funny? Then it was also said at the hearing that they have given us a room for thought – a room for thought, but not a deal. Does the representative Johnsen think that the voluntary teams and organisations have now been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e298	With the message and the actions that have been put forward, which we are following, and the actions that have both been included in the budget, which are to move forward in the future, it will be easier for voluntary teams and organisations than it has been until now, simply because we are providing relief on the tax side that is good for volunteering, and unlike the Progress Party, we support the introduction of a "grasroots share", which will increase revenue for voluntary teams and organisations locally. So where the Progress Party is going to go against what's going to tend to volunteer, well we're going to back up under what's going to tend to volunteer. Therefore, I believe that the future will show us that the concerns that many volunteer teams and organizations currently have to deal with, and that they described in a good way, will be less in the future. It is the whole purpose of the message and with the measures we propose that it be easier for voluntary teams and organisations across the country to carry out their important work. The measures that are here are a contribution to it, and I'm sure they will be effective. Otherwise it wouldn't have been as much excitement as it has been among voluntary organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e305	There was one thing that the representative Johnsen said in his post, which made me take this line. He said that the grant schemes – and I think I quote quite correctly – should be better adapted to the organisational structures of the volunteer. I wonder if the representative Johnsen could elaborate on it a little bit?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e310	It is that voluntary activity is constantly changing. Organizations change, and the way people get involved changes. For this reason, it is also necessary in some cases to consider whether the means available to the public to support voluntary activity are appropriate to adapt the form, structure, involvement expressed by people in voluntary teams and organisations. For this reason, we want more of the public funds to come through, for example. operating aid instead of project support. It will be an important measure for the activity to take place on their premises. Perhaps it will also be so that large organizations are growing up today in a form that will prevent them from getting public help for their activity, but is fastening it. For this reason, there is a need to have a review of the way in which the pilot schemes are designed to best hit, and to enable the most people to express themselves through their voluntary activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e315	I live in Old Town in Oslo. That means I'm a member of the Klan, of course. I've been for a very long time. I think Vålerenga might get a lot of money through the grass root. The representative Johnsen represents Uppland, and he has not heard any organizations that have been critical of the grass root fraction. Then he can't listen very well when he's home. Does the representative Johnsen think that the small organisations are able to market themselves against the large ones in terms of the distribution of the grass root fraction? As we understand it, there will be no more money for the volunteering of the grass root. You just take a percentage of the money that's already there. Does the representative Johnsen think that it is good for the organizations in his constituency to have the grassroots fraction introduced? Does he think 4H in Uppland is going to get big transfers with such a thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e322	The answer is yes. I mean it. I think that maybe first and foremost is a system that will work for the small organizations. It's the small 4H layers, the small sports teams and the small volunteer organizations out in the district of Norway that most easily identify themselves with. I know very well where to use my 5 pst. I know where my parents are going to use their 5 pst. And I know that there are a lot of parents and grandparents and other people around the community who have a relationship with their sports team or their 4H team or what kind of team it might be. So they're the ones I'm least worried about, the locals. What I love most about the whole system is that we're going to strengthen the districts of the country. And I think it's going to get more income. Today I'm not playing anything, but I'm going to send in a lottery ticket again and no, because I know that 5 pst. Of my lotto efforts are going to go to the West Slider sports team, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e329	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e332	Finally, Stortinget received a voluntary notice. Since several cases have already been dealt with in the past, such as: the establishment of voluntary registers and the regulation of lottery activities, without being seen in connection with this message, it is not free for me to think it is a bit limping. The Progress Party has always fought for voluntary teams and organisations. It was for the future life of the volunteer that we fought against the amendment of the Lottery Act. We are convinced that without voluntary Norway the country will stop. The voluntary teams and organisations are responsible for a number of tasks that would either remain undone or that the public would have done. In addition, there is no doubt that for each krona the voluntary teams and organisations use, society will again have ten times as much. The voluntary sector contributes in a number of welfare areas and contributes to diversity, making Norway a richer country. Recently, voluntary Norway has also become a political voice, and that is good. I'm thinking here, for example. in the NGOU on single asylum seekers, which was the first in its battle in Norway and was an impressive piece of work. In addition, the vast majority of cases are sent to different teams and organisations to get to know their views. Freedom of choice shall be exercised, and it shall be readily available. This means that the State should not overstate the way in which teams and organisations are to operate. But for this to work, the framework conditions for teams and organisations must be predictable. The Progress Party is associated with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left on most of this communication, both in critical assessments of State control and governance with voluntary teams and organisations, proposals for VAT, inheritance tax and a comprehensive review of gambling policy. But at one point, the Progress Party separates itself from the rest. It is in the case of state contributions to voluntary teams and organisations. We were known to oppose the introduction of automatic monopoly for Norwegian Typing. The reason was that we saw that this would have a major impact on the funding of voluntary Norway, in which of course we get it right. The next year is an exceptional year, and the Government has sent a proposal that the Council of State should allocate 150 million. kr to selected voluntary teams and organisations. I am pleased with all the funds that go to the voluntary teams and organisations, but when it is so politically directed that the Council of State will select which organisations will receive money, it will be unheard of. What about the hundreds of thousands of idealists and enthusiasts around the country who lose the money they had, who have put all their leisure time into labor and a living local exposure? They are hardly among the elected councillors. They have to go back to the past waffle roasting, flea market and other things to make money on in order to offer our children and young people a good and valuable leisure offer, and to give our old, our lonely and our sick a light in life. Is that what you mean? We are the richest country in the world, and we cannot even afford to ensure that the voluntary sector survives! It does not help with the 17th May speeches and wishes for Christmas and good New Year if the reality is that the Government and the Storting does not improve the conditions of the voluntary sector. At the hearing, one of the organisations said that the volunteering message has given us room for thought, but not room for action. What would have been necessary to get the room for action, I ask myself? Indeed, higher amounts of grants to voluntary teams and organisations, predictable basic aid — to which it was possible to relate, and not just one percent of a figure, if there is such a figure at all — full VAT compensation, waiver of inheritance tax on legitimized gifts, all who so desire, should be able to stand in the voluntary register, and last but not least, reduce the field of form and application. These are just some of the instruments that had given the volunteer greater scope for action. This was something concrete, and this should be part of the volunteering message. I am afraid the conditions of the voluntary sector result in fewer fires, less enthusiasm, and slowly fewer jobs will be recruited for voluntary work. Then there are children and young people and the weakest of us who will lose. Norway can't afford it. Voluntary teams and organisations have been self-financed over a number of years. The fact that the state now provides less basic support and that teams and organisations need to seek project support to a greater extent than in the past also contributes to a political overarching here. Not only do teams and organisations need to apply for project support, there are also strong indications of how these funds are to be used by the country. It is important for the Progress Party, and I assume that the other opposition parties are with me, that the organisations should get to work on what they can, what they were created for, whether it's children and youth, culture or sport, health or well-being, and not have to spend their time on the form field and apply to projects for which it's not even certain that they will be supported. For some this might be known: provide for simpler legislation in the field of taxation, VAT and employers’ fees by reducing the use of project-based permanent VAT compensation schemes for non-governmental organisations; These three points come from the Soria Moria Declaration, for those who didn't know it. What worries me is that here the government had a golden opportunity to actually fulfill its promises, but what happens? Still, there is project support, still no clarification on VAT compensation, and we can well say here, as the representative Molvær Grimstad was talking about, that half of volunteer Norway feels a bit tricked because it was thought that this VAT committee should also look at VAT compensation for voluntary teams and organisations. There is also no increase in the amount of donations to non-governmental organisations. The progress party is not very impressed with the piece of work that the Government has put into this message. There are still many beautiful words and promises and little concrete action. For those who volunteer, it is not so important which words are in texts, or which words are spoken here today, for that matter. What's important is what we're actually doing, so that they give an opportunity to continue their good work. So I'm going to deal with the suggestions that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e374	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e380	I have to say, as I have said many times before: when I hear the presentation of its cultural policy by the Advancement Party, I think it seems quite confusing. Not least their game policy. They were one of the initiators for changing the key, which helped to increase the amount of money volunteering – be honoured as the Progress Party for it. But then in the next round they're doing everything they can to help ensure that there's as little money in the pot to distribute through the key. They do that by going along with the rest of the opposition to the grass root fraction proposal, which would obviously contribute to more money in the pot. The second thing they do, and which is even more serious, is they're opening up the Commission Network to international gaming companies, which will erode the entire Norwegian Typing and the ability to raise a lot of money for non-governmental organisations in Norway. My question to the Progress Party is: do they think it is better that the money from Norwegian games goes into the pockets of the international capital rather than that they belong to the Football Federation, the Handball Association, the Red Cross and all the teams and organisations in Norway that obviously need much more money than the international companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e387	Firstly, if the Workers' Party had agreed with us at the time of the introduction of an automatic monopoly, at least we would have secured the money for voluntary teams and organisations. When it comes to opening up to foreign companies, it's not worse than putting in place a concession, a licence, as it is done in England, Germany, and in many other countries, where a share of the foreign company comes from Norway, goes for charitable purposes. Here it is just a matter of looking further at it and not believing that Norwegian Typing is the only right thing for Norway, and that it is only those who can distribute funds for good purposes. It's actually not like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e394	Karin S. Woldseth from the Progress Party outlined in his article the reactions to a message from the Government that is completely contrary to what we hear from the voluntary organizations, including what we heard when we had the volunteer organizations listening here in the Storting. Then the resound was that this was a good starting point for the voluntary work further. This was a good message, and this was not least an important message for the voluntary sector. I would like to ask the representative, Woldseth, what makes her think that the voluntary organizations really mean something quite different than what they say when they meet on a hearing in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e399	They don't, and what the volunteer teams and organizations said was that this was a good starting point. But I think both the government and the government parties have created an incredible expectation. The message of free will is nice, but it has very little concrete in it that gives some predictable framework conditions to which the voluntary teams and organisations can relate. I think that's the biggest challenge. That's a lot of beautiful words. There is a lot of status quo, but there is little concrete about what small voluntary teams and organisations can expect in the coming years, and especially after 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e404	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e407	The voluntary organisations in Norway represent fundamental values in our society. Community feeling and solidarity are closely linked to what we associate with the spirit of virtue and the community arenas where we meet in voluntary work. The voluntary organisations are based on individuals who come together in common interests and who, through personal efforts, create arenas for development, not only for themselves, but also help others to participate in activity. It's a dimension that's important to bring with it. The voluntary organisations constitute the backbone of civil society and can, through it, be a counterweight and a corrective factor to the state as a power factor. Not least in our country, we have seen how large popular organisations contribute to countercultures, also in relation to political work. We have target movement as an example of that, and perhaps No to the EU is also an example of that. In this context, the ability of voluntary organisations to criticise and independently participate in society is central. Civil society is not just an harmless sphere of leisure activities. Civil society is also made up of fundamental values that deal with the ability and willingness of the population to mobilise in things they seem to be important, regardless of government or public leadership. Voluntary activities are also contributing to important societal tasks. Not least in the humanitarian field, where we know that very important and central tasks are being carried out by large organisations. It is in the nature of the case that volunteering appears to be a broad field – a wide range of interests, a wide range of organisations, from the large professional, almost business, to small associations with only a few members. An overall opposition promoted in June 2006 a proposal to draw up a voluntary notification. In this proposal, which we are also dealing with now, we pointed to 13 different areas of action we thought it would be useful to investigate. The main political grip, the course Espen Johnsen was wondering where it was, he can see there. In fact, it was in favour of measures of a general, general nature. Unfortunately, many of these issues have been dealt with only superficially or not at all in the present communication. In this context, it is disappointing that we have not come any more, for example. on the issue of VAT. We had also expected that the laws of urgency to be adopted in our law on collecting actions and the law on the voluntary register would be more complementary in the context. This is not least about the voluntary register. This register has the ability to become a very good tool in meeting volunteering with the public sector. It requires, however, that it be designed in a way that creates a digestion that also includes the small organisations. These must then experience the voluntary register as an appropriate tool, and public authorities must, through active adaptation, provide opportunities for rationalisation. In this respect, there were deficiencies in the case that were dealt with in Stortinget before the summer, and we would have liked to see a better follow-up on it now. Taking this into account, we can unfortunately not say that we have received the overall presentation that we had hoped for. The voluntary policy of the right and the other opposition parties is based on a strong emphasis on the independent position of civil society. For the right, this is a quality in itself. The power and ability of civil society to criticise and mobilise is a Community value which lies in the natural extension of the emphasis of the Right on personal responsibility. Our policies in this area will therefore be marked by the desire for general approaches and adaptations that contribute positively to voluntary activities, without public funding being used as an bait for specific activities or activities. This we experience is quite fundamentally different from the government parties, which is primarily reflected in the approach adopted in the communication. The structure of the message is chapter by chapter a systematic review of a number of policy objectives, followed by an analysis of how voluntary organisational life can contribute to the fulfilment of the Government’s project. The natural follow-up to this will be a targeted allocation policy to support given activities. We also see clear signs of this in some concrete proposals, such as the continuation of the Free Fund scheme, which requires adaptations that favour integrated activities. It is a price-effective objective, but at the same time a clear instrumental approach, which, in this way, also fits well with the other cultural policies of the Government. The government's starting point leads us straight into one of the difficult areas of the relationship between volunteering and the welfare country's activities. In particular, in the humanitarian field, volunteering has taken precedence over actions that have been gradually incorporated as public tasks, such as: hospitals and marine rescue services. In general, good and constructive cooperation between the organisations and the public actors involved has been developed. However, several of these tasks have gradually been incorporated into people's consciousness as public core tasks. In many cases, this means that public development of similar activities and, in many cases, a competitive relationship. On the SV side, a position has long been taken that the State should take over some of these businesses, such as the Rescue Company and their tasks. Right-wing believes it is very important to maintain the private involvement that voluntary action means. Firstly, organisations contribute in a way that has not been given the ability of the State. But more importantly, this commitment clearly means something to the overall solidarity of our society. Fortunately, a well-developed welfare state provides good support through life, but the back of this medal is that we can quickly get to it that we discharge ourselves of responsibility in secure assurance that the public takes it for us. Here, volunteering represents a counterpower that we're all served with to be kept alive. Here we meet another ideologically conditional barrier, namely where private organisations compete with public authorities in areas where today's government on a principle basis prefers the public. For example, we see this in the area of child protection and rehabilitation. In fact, we see that the government is changing in the sense that it distinguishes between commercial and non-profit-making activities. However, even with this starting point in many cases, there is still a long way to go before non-profit and public activities compete on equal terms. The government's approach leads us into a path where organisations will increasingly depend on a close relationship with the state. Aid schemes and instruments are targeted at the individual fields and tasks that will create a dependency balance may be difficult to balance. The increasing orientation of voluntary organisations towards public authorities is also reflected in the developments we have seen in cooperation between organisations. After more or less moderate pressure from the state, the voluntary organisations have structured themselves in national-led pyramidal organisations, which are responsible for communicating with the ministry and massaging. I stress that this organisation is not necessarily negative in the first place, but we see that this creates a good opportunity to exercise governmental influence over the organisations. In particular, the top stone of the pyramid, Freedom Norway, has now been added to the right. We have noticed that this organisation has received special treatment in certain contexts during hearings, and we have noticed that the Government of the State Budget contributes with its own position in Freedom Norway where it is to work to implement the integration dimension and thus the Government's performance project No. 1, Mangfold year. The first chapter of the voluntary service stresses the importance of the autonomy of the voluntary service. Should independence, i.e. the autonomy of the voluntary, be something more than a form of celebration, the policy in this area also needs to be balanced in such a way that it is not allowed to slip through good intentions and objectives. To this end, the right will continue to demand general instruments and policies in which the links between policy objectives and voluntary activities are not intertwined, so that voluntary action meets the policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e436	I notice that the right and left in the setting have gone one step forward, but take two steps back in connection with the willingness to regulate gambling. I see that they are skeptical about the hearing that is currently going on in connection with controlling transfers of money and online profits, that it is assessed to make non-authorised games illegal in Norway. Of course, I am aware that such a measure will not prevent all online gambling. Rather, the goal is to raise the online gambling threshold, as we from SV believe that it is an unfortunate business. I had the impression that the right also meant that. And then we see that the right wants to go in for other types of restrictions. It has been said that the measures will not work, but I find it strange that the international gambling companies, who have said that they will not work, are now using millions of advertisements in Norwegian newspapers to prevent this from being adopted. Does Thommes think it strange that the companies that themselves say this is not going to work are willing to use millions to prevent its adoption?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e445	Now I haven't exactly followed what those companies are saying, but I can comment in this context that our position on this issue is not influenced by the fact that there is some great enthusiasm for international network operators to suck out money from the Norwegian market. The question is just what kind of prescription you add up to. And here we've found that there's a lot of angles of incidence. We strongly support the considerations of technology on this issue. If the representative Lund Bergo reads the comments, he will see that we also want there to be room for a menu of tools to counteract online gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e450	We've been given today a big message about volunteering to contribute to greater commitment and a simpler everyday life for all those who spend thousands of hours a year. We see that lower taxes and taxes are one of the pieces, linked to the employer's fee, we see this with increasing the amount limits and exemption from payroll duty. We see that tax deductions for contributions to non-governmental organisations continue. We see that the voluntary register is received positively in clubs and circuits, and we see that some people conclude by what the VAT Committee has decided. But they're going to have their last meeting in February – and I think it'll be positive. But then I see that in the case of the grassroots share, which is very positive for both Norway's Sports Association, Freedom Norway, the Red Cross and the Cancer Association, and which will contribute to the positive marketing of all premises clubs, teams and associations, right across all those who support this message. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e459	First, I would like to welcome the Government as regards what was mentioned about taxes and taxes – we want even more liberal spaces around it. It's just a kind of example of general improvements that I think are a good approach to the whole volunteer. As far as the grass root fraction is concerned, there is a question of how it will work. We don't know much about that yet. But what we know is that there's probably going to be a lot of competition between the big organizations to get this grass root fraction, that's a tough kind of marketing. I believe in that context that the small organizations will fall through. I notice that all the organisations that the representative here mentions are examples of large organisations with a high level of credit and a high level of public attention. They're probably doing it in this context. Small organisations will fall through. And the 5 pst.- that we're talking about, will be very, very small in relation to the costs they want to raise in marketing terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e467	A short question also from me. Right is a party that keeps individual freedom high, that is, man's ability to influence his own everyday life. The grassroots part that the Government has proposed in the message is, of course, a possibility for me when I tip, to ear tag a small part of the sum I put in, to my local team or an organization. Why will the Right get rid of this option to highlight its own layer and say its unit through its hinting?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e472	It's probably not the tips we're thinking about in this context. I don't know how much the representative Sande taps for, if he's a big player, but he could start to reflect on, if he has a local team -- a youth team somewhere in Sogn that he's been thinking about assing his 5 pst. of what he's tipping for, over the year -- how much money it'll represent for that team. What we haven't been given an answer to is whether it made at all will have that opportunity, because there are questions about how to organize such a grassroots fraction. We have not received a good answer that there will be room for the small organizations, and then we are talking about very small teams and associations. Should they register in the voluntary register? We have not received an answer as to what it will mean by extra work and bureaucracy – if at all there is room for them there. Secondly, we have not received a response to how the grass root fraction is to be distributed to these organisations. Thirdly, we are talking about small money, and fourthly, we are talking about these having to start with a large marketing in competition with large, heavy and professional players.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e481	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e484	In some contexts, the impression that volunteering in Norway is poor, that it was much better before, that more people participated, and that the spirit of hard work was greater. Yes, society has changed, and there are many actors who are now fighting for our attention. But it is good to note that volunteering exists and may be more and more active than what we imagine in everyday life. In the international context, Norway is the country with extremely high levels of participation in teams, associations and voluntary activities of all kinds. It may not be surprising that a few years ago, the word ‘dugnad’ was referred to the most Norwegian word. The present communication provides a comprehensive and thorough review of voluntary activities in Norway, thus placing the importance of voluntary activities in a societal perspective. The Communication underlines both the historical importance of the voluntary sector and the continuing importance of voluntary activities in the development of civil society. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we concluded that a new and comprehensive voluntary policy should be developed so that voluntary Norway could have more predictable framework conditions. The voluntary sector contributes with large values in society in the form of 113 500 voluntary annual works and a turnover of 61 billion DKK. The sector employs approx. 69 000 employees. Government parties have inter alia: through this Communication, it wanted to recognise the voluntary sector as a separate social sector. The government will, among other things, through this Communication, ensure the independence of volunteering, facilitate the participation of all in voluntary work, improve the functioning of voluntary work locally, increase knowledge and awareness of the role and importance of volunteering for society, and coordinate and develop government volunteering policies. The Storing Communication provides a picture of a vital volunteer that is undergoing changes and where the emergence of organisations is increasing. Local volunteering is generally strong, and the voluntary sector makes a significant contribution to society, both through service production and extensive voluntary efforts. However, the most important value of the voluntary sector is not quantifiable. This key value lies in the organisations’ contribution to the quality of life through participation in good meeting places, inclusion, good growth and neighbourhoods, training, opinion formation and democratic construction. Voluntary activities in Norway also have a long and important tradition of pioneering in different fields, including: as a result of their close contact with the local population. The recognition of volunteering as a sector of society that we now have is a historic milestone that SV believes is a solid basis for strengthening the framework conditions and characteristics of volunteering in this country. The voluntary notification underlines the value of diversity in the voluntary sector and the importance of the independent position of non-governmental organisations. This is very important for SV. Therefore, we are also pleased that the dialogue with voluntary Norway has been very good in the process of preparing this communication. Voluntaryness Norway states in its opinion: ‘Freedom Norway is very pleased that the Freedom Notice has been submitted. The notification contains a comprehensive and thorough review of the voluntary sector and bears the impression that the government has listened to the voluntary nature of its work on the notification.’» SV is concerned that economic independence is important for the self-employment of the volunteer. In total, the voluntary sector provides approximately 50 % of the total population. two thirds of its income in the form of gifts, inheritances, membership fees and sales, while one third of its income comes from government grants. But here, of course, there's also a lot of variation between the different organizations. SV is very pleased that the government parties, the majority of the population, and Freedom Norway agree on the importance of voluntary access to long-term, safe and ethically sound sources of income. In this context, we are very pleased with the measures and legislative changes that have been implemented by the government to prevent a development in which large parts of the voluntary sector receive large portions of their income from gambling – thus contributing to social problems and suffering for many people. We are very pleased that volunteering and the Government are now agreeing on the overall lines of responsible gaming policy. The voluntary service also opens up too many measures to improve the framework conditions for the voluntary sector, including: opening up so-called ‘purchasing donations’ in marketing legislation, continuation of the tax credit scheme for gifts, raising the ceiling on the amount of voluntary organisations’ pay and drawdown obligations from NOK 2000 to 4000 and continuation of current rates for draw-free spending schemes. These were just a few examples. Like Volunteering Norway, SV is very concerned about facilitating activities for people with disabilities. While public services must work to continuously improve infrastructure through universal design in newer constructions and improvement measures in older buildings, volunteering should also continue with the intention of facilitating the active participation of disabled people in the activities of voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e518	The representative, Lund Bergo, said that in the past they were voluntary teams and organisations funded by gambling, which created major social problems. The typing key is probably still present, and the volunteering of gambling is still being financed, even if it is not machines, for which he is probably aiming. I want to ask the representative Bergo questions about the grass root fraction. In the 22 largest cities in our country, there is an incredible diversity of voluntary teams and organisations. Does the representative of Bergo think that the countless voluntary teams and organisations in the big cities that have to fight with the ten major humanitarian organisations about this grassroots share – which still does not make up more money – are they part of the already existing distribution – going to get more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e525	It is surprising that the representative of the Progress Party is concerned that people themselves should be allowed to decide what part of their waste is going to do, and that they prefer the state to control that money. But I'm recording what the representative means. I believe that the grassroots ratio is basically an attempt from Norwegian Typing to get more gambling going to get more money in the cash register. I think it's all right, if there's gambling that doesn't create more addiction, and it's called harmless. Now let's see what this is. I think that in itself is a creative measure. It's not a big or important thing. But it's a creative grant from Norwegian Tipping. What I think is most positive about it is that it can ensure that we can now bring in organisations that have not previously been searchable for these funds. But I see that the big ones can come in. I think there might be a problem in the cities. But I think in small communities we'll see that it's the local teams and organizations that get these grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e532	In previous line changes in budgets and cases during the previous period, we have been within the limits of what should be government or public tasks and what should be the tasks of the voluntary sector. SV has previously stated – I think it was the representatives of Lund Bergo and May Hansen – that e.g. parts of the activities of the Blind Alliance and the Rescue Company could also be State tasks. I want to draw that issue a little bit further, in relation to the involvement of non-governmental organisations in the area of child protection institutions and rehabilitation – to use one example. We could also mention on the hospital side, for example. Revmatism Hospital, of which the Sanitation Association is concerned. How does the representative Lund Bergo view the ownership of these activities by non-governmental organisations? Does the representative of Lund Bergo think that these are establishments which should preferably be State-owned?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e539	Yeah, basically I'll do it. At the same time, I live in Norway. To put it that way, I guess we can do so much history that we're happy that the voluntary institutions existed when the state didn't see it as interesting at all to deal with those who might have been the worst. And it works. What I'm skeptical about is when the type of business that the representative Thommessen mentions is turned into business – business. I'm probably a lot more positive to that Freedom Norway can do this. I have the principle that I want the state, in any case, to take responsibility for the financial framework and operation and the problems of this, and to solve the problems. But for decades to come, we're going to take advantage of Freedom Norway, I think of it as a natural thing. In any case, I believe that even if the State has a primary responsibility, we will always want an additional offer from volunteers, in addition to what is a state norm for such a business.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e546	Most sectors are mentioned in voluntary notifications, both welfare organisations, minority organisations, sports organisations, children’s and youth organisations, etc. But it's a group that's completely left out, and it's the environmental and outdoor organisations. What's the representative Lund Bergo's comment on that? Is it because environmental organisations are very critical to challenge the sitting government – the same as it is – if there are things they are not content with? Is it their critical attitude that one has not taken them along, or is it a mistake? The second is the VAT Compensation Selection. We heard here that the Center Party was surprised that this was about to cancel out, for example. a zero rate was not included in the mandate. Was SV surprised by that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e555	First of all. That's not exactly what Molvær Grimstad says. I agree that there is not much about environmental organisations, but it says something. The nature protection association is mentioned, Bellona is mentioned, the Norwegian Tourist Association is mentioned – so it is mentioned. I will claim that in SV we have hot thoughts for the environmental protection organisations, and we will make sure that they are viable in the future as well. So the second question -- and the answer is really a little bit the same. Very familiar we will get this on the table in mid-February, and will then probably be able to deal with it in the spring. I should also like to see that the VAT question was dealt with in the message, but that is not the case now. Then we will have to take it in the broad political context when this is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e563	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e566	Voluntary sector is used to fine party speeches. We all agree that voluntary engagement is important and has a lot to say to a lot of people. There is broad political agreement on this. But when it comes to handling the volunteer messages, we see clear political distinctions between the right-center on one side and the left-hand side on the other. Yes, there are different views of the relationship between state and civil society. Rarely has it been clearer than now. On 16 June 2006, the Opposition Party shall produce a Document No. 8 proposals to improve the framework conditions for the voluntary sector. St.meld. No 39 for 2006-2007 Freedom for all was expressed on 10 August 2007, more than one year after the presentation of the draft representative. When the message finally arrived, I expected a review of the themes we included in the proposal for a representative. It has not happened. This may include: say that we have a different view of the relationship between state and civil society. The Christian People's Party wants a voluntary sector of freedom to exist on its own terms and by its own means. It may look as if the Government sees voluntary activities as triggering government policies. The Christian People's Party places emphasis on free means. The government wants direct government support. The Christian People's Party will use fiscal instruments that provide good framework conditions without State override. The government wants direct support with leadership to achieve its own goals. The government reveals the instrumental approach in the same way as when we handled the cultural budget a few days ago. The representative Espen Johnsen was within the Christian People's Party's proposal in the position on the green card for children and young people. It's not a management of voluntary teams and organizations, it's a gift card that allows all children to participate in leisure activities. Those who are involved in voluntary work do so on their own merits and on their own commitment. We need to take care of that. It will then have to facilitate the development of the sector's own resources. In a chronicle published in the Evening Post on 15 November, Håkon Lorentzen writes at the Institute for Social Research: ‘The development thus weakens the role of national organisations as stakeholders and strengthens them as state entrepreneurs.’ Debate editor Knut Olav Åmås followed up in the same paper on 19 November. There he reflected on the danger that the critical role of voluntary organisations would be weakened when the government wanted organisations to set public goals. He writes that the sector is 'pressed by the state and local government sector, who intensively want help to solve their inflating tasks'. Dependence between the country and the voluntary sector must not make voluntary organisations the hub of the country. I'm concerned that the government over time weakens the national organizations as knowledge bases, drivers of activity, and as corrective to public power. We have to respect volunteering and organisational life for what they are, not just for what they do. The voluntary sector is an important correction to public power. I ask myself why not the nature and environmental sectors are mentioned in the message more than with keywords. Is it because, as the Government sees it, they don't provide community-based services? Public ownership and participation in environmental policy debate are central to anchoring and solving the major environmental challenges we face. The value of open air life for good quality of life — through the combination of physical activity and natural experience — and the attitude of the environment and sustainable development must bring with it a completely different focus on the voluntary field than the government puts forward in the message. The government has given the impression that they will come back to the zero rate question for the voluntary sector once the Culture VAT selection has delivered its opinion. But then it turns out that this is outside the selection’s mandate to assess, as the Minister of Finance also confirmed on direct questions from the signatures of the question hour earlier in the fall. I'm surprised and realize that volunteering is a good idea. The Christian People's Party believes it is necessary for the Government to put forward a case in which the service tax, the VAT rate and the VAT rate for voluntary teams and organisations are assessed. I would also have liked the red-greens to want more knowledge about key fiscal instruments that provide better framework conditions for voluntary action — and greater freedom at the same time. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen voluntary action that does not override. That's why we have a number of suggestions that can contribute to it. Voluntaryness is important for what it is, and for what it has to say to individuals and to society. I would like to address the proposal that we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e603	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e608	I had believed that in the setting – and at least in the post now – we had been told how the Christian People's Party will stand up to that part of volunteering that is not insignificant, and that from 2009, with the Christian People's Party's arrangement, will lose NOK 1 billion. It's a pretty comprehensive sum, and I think it would be good for the volunteers to figure out what kind of policy the Christian People's Party has for these organizations. The Christian People's Party is opposed to the game policy of which Walterd Replystad Haugland took the initiative, and which is now being followed up. The Christian People's Party will use its entire Norwegian Tipping investment fund in 2008 – and thus go away from the agreement we had with volunteering. The consequence of this is that from 2009 on, volunteering with 1 billion DKK is less in income than it has had in the last year, and it will have in 2008 and 2009. Then it is strange and surprising that there is no cork in the setting of the cultural budget, in the financial setting, or in the setting of the volunteer message, how the Christian People's Party has intended to claim that DKK 1 billion will be lost for volunteering. How will the Christian People's Party deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e617	I'm happy for that question. The Christian People's Party felt it was important to strengthen voluntary teams and organisations. And if we were so lucky that we had got multiple numbers on Stortinget to remove the slot machines, which have given very many gambling problems over time, we would also be taking responsibility over the state budget to strengthen volunteer teams and organizations. We have not received a majority for that, but in the state budget for the current year, we have proposed additional measures in addition to the Government's proposal both when it is due to pay, which has been proposed to increase from NOK 4000 to NOK 5000, and the limit on the employer's tax. That would give you 10 million proceeds. kr. The tax deduction for voluntary teams and organisations has been proposed to increase from NOK 12 000 to NOK 18 000. This will mean a great deal for voluntary teams and organisations. But I think that if we had got multiple numbers, we would have to have allowed more money for research, such as. to the Cancer Association, which has not received funding from the State budget for research. The Christian People's Party wanted our offensive with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e624	It could have been tempting to take a round with the representative Molvær Grimstad on all the good suggestions that have been made in this room on gambling policy, and that Molvær Grimstad has voted down, but I will not. I want to go back to volunteering. When I read the setting, I was initially a little worried. It's a pretty aggressive opposition, which is negative at almost all possible points. I was more reassured when I read the notes from the consultation rounds and saw that the opposition's moments had little support for them in fact, namely Freedom Norway. I think of this a lot like a reconstructed contrast in terms of the view of volunteering. When it comes to being instrumental, we have been and are – in part. And then we are careful that there should be autonomy in the sector at the same time. Does the representative Molvær Grimstad think that there is a fundamental difference between opposition and position in the view of autonomy, or is there a degree difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e633	What is important for the Christian People's Party is that we strengthen voluntary organisations – without demands. During the budget debate a few days ago, Minister of Culture Trond Giske, when it came to the leadership of the Year of Manhood, was quoted on what he said to the Class struggle – I believe it was there – that the organizations were evaluated according to whether they had achieved their goal of government. What we do not want is to use the voluntary sector to implement the policy objectives that we set. We'll let the volunteers themselves come up with an idea of what they think is important. When it comes to voting down good suggestions, the SV has gone to the Christian People's Party a long time after they have come to government. It is good proposals – not directly before the game policy, but in other areas – that are voted down by SV today, and one would believe that SV would be with and support, for example. to abolish VAT and to get a case on it. We will continue to do good things. The SV shall have a honeymoon. When it comes to gambling policy, it's those who've gone the farthest, and I should like them to continue to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e644	The representative of Molvær Grimstad places great emphasis on the difference between the state and civil society. We are from the Center Party's side some with the Christian People's Party in that it is important to ensure independent financing of the voluntary sector. That's exactly why it's important. the importance of reducing the use of project materials, as pointed out by the Committee. But then it happens that society wants to achieve some goals in other areas. I could say, as an example, putting money into the public health area. Is it so to understand that the Christian People's Party believes that voluntary organisations that might initially work on that kind of problem setting should be excluded from applying for these funds? Does the Christian People's Party mean that that kind of means should go unabated to public institutions and actors alone?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e651	The Christian People's Party has never said that organizations cannot search for funds. What we're responding to is that a set of more and more money targets and asks the organizations to use it for that purpose. Strengthening the public health perspective is very good, but volunteering teams and organisations must be involved in making a contribution to the premise and guidance for how they want these funds to be used. There should not be such a level of detail management from the Government’s side that if the money is used specifically such and such, then a person can get his action plan implemented, and that’s good. We want voluntary organisations to be involved in and run and decide what they want to bet on, and the state would like to make money available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e656	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e659	Volunteering in Norway has a rather special role, it has historically had a very special role, very different from much of European volunteering. The European voluntary service has been most charities, while the Norwegian voluntary service has been most affected by maritime aid — organising to meet the challenges of a local environment. The vast majority of Community solutions we have in the country are based on voluntary initiatives. It's about our hospital services, it's about the education of nurses -- as the historic, beautiful left lady Fredrikke Marie Kvam started up here in the country -- and it's about social assistance, which was really a game system, where everyone in a building got together and the house had special challenges, for a few months each. The legend system was not a system that is considered to be particularly fine from the point of view of human rights and dignity, as we are talking about. But it was a pretty incredible system. I think I see the system implemented today – that people with special challenges should come home socially to each of us, and that we should take responsibility for them for them for a few months each. It is clear that there was a large amount of social intervention based on voluntary efforts and initiatives. Until today, for example: in the crisis centre movement that has been working against incest — efforts have been based on voluntary initiatives among people who have been very committed to issues they want to solve. So society, the community and the state have taken over gradually. Virtually all parts of our social community have started through burning fires that have been engaged in solving a social challenge. The state has been very little innovative in this area. It is therefore important to facilitate the innovation that is voluntary in relation to Community construction in the future. That is why it is important not to red tape. That's why it's important to facilitate people's initiative, people's desire to spend money on different things, being channelled that way. For this reason, the Left has been very much involved in launching some major projects to get something done – not just with bureaucracy but with VAT regulations, with voluntary donations giving tax deductions. It is also about the employer’s fee. There has been no more than one year since the Left presented a Document No. 8 proposals to increase the limits of the employer’s contribution. Then we heard from the government that it was impossible to implement. Today they're trying to reach the goals left set, and they think it's very nice. I want to stay at this grass root, which we now heard was not a suggestion from the Government, but from Norwegian Typing. For me, this is a fundamental difference in the approach to volunteering, because what you focus on is where you put the funding. By providing all funding through the public sector, it will be important for voluntary action to adapt to public policy. By adding all the funding to the private sector, you turn it that way. We in the Left believe that there must be a variety of sources of income for the volunteers. But what you do with the grassroots percentage is you focus on organisations having to market themselves to the big players. So it's not going to be the most important thing to focus on the activity, it's going to be on the marketing of the sea. For me as 4H's, it is important to market 4H in those arenas where you meet the big players – those who spend a lot of money. There won't be any more money out of it, because it's just 5 pst. of what you already have there. Then you're going to spend that money focusing on marketing to the big players as an activity in non-governmental organisations. What the Left believes is that a rather need to open up to organisations to develop their own games, so that people actually support the organisations they want to support, through other games and not through Norwegian Typing. Today, Norwegian Typing has acquired a position in the distribution of money both for volunteering, culture and sports that are out of proportion to what was the way of thinking. There are many challenges here, but it is clear that there is a fundamental difference in the approach between the opposition and what the government has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e680	The opposition has gathered on a common ideological attack platform they call an instrumental approach. The paradox is that a number of organisations themselves have an instrumental approach to what they do. As the representative Skei Grande pointed out, there are a number of organisations that have really been the forerunners of Velferds-Norway. It is the abstinence movement, the Church’s City Mission, the Sanity Women, the Rescue Company and the Red Cross – organisations that are asking for public money today to solve the necessary welfare tasks. Does the Left believe that these organisations should end this? And if not, does the Left believe that the municipality and state should not make any demands as to how this money is used, or have any idea of how this money should be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e692	Now I think we have to go a little round and frame up these organizations, because there are actually some of them who don't receive public support – which basically don't want to receive public support – because they want to do the task they're doing, without such support. For example, Norwegian Women's Sanitation does not receive public support. Enough about that. What's the starting point of the left is that we think you have to have a variation of channels. We believe that organisations must be able to create their own revenues, preferably through games, which historically have been the arena to do so. It is also a matter of providing public support specifically to small organisations, to children’s and youth organisations and to those organisations that work too little resources. Then we also have to have other types of grants. We are not opposed to public support, but we are opposed to public governance governing what people should do and to public governance, for example. consider people in organisations to motivate organisations to do things they don't really want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e701	When a representative hears Trine Skei Grande say about the grassroots part, the impression is that the organisations locally are going to convert the whole business from what they are doing today to market itself in relation to this 5 pst. grassroots parts. Then is my question to Trine Skei Grande, who highlighted own lottery as an alternative source of income: is it that the organisation's own lottery doesn't have to be marketed? And is it that the marketing done for the grassroots part leads to heavy expenditure for the local organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e708	At risk of being a little instructive to Mr. True with regard to history here: it is true that the voluntary organisations were initially those who had a monopoly on the waste part in Norway. It's a historical fact. So it was that you started with a lot of money for a special case, so that the state would kind of go into the game market for one thing. Then you started typing, then you started with Lotto, and then came the Flax block. Then the Prime Minister promised that there would never be any more new games, and he promised that there would never be any more scratch weight than this. Now the vending machines were to be the organisations' market. In fact, the organisations were refused state support because they had not entered the automatic market. And then the state thinks that you should also take the vending machine market. At the same time, all new games are limited – and frozen – while Norwegian Typing is given free ropes to one after the other, with great creativity, while access to the NRK is also available in the best possible time. So what Sande said is, to put it mildly, historyless.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e715	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, warns against being a teacher. I could return it to the representative when she claims that organisations like the Sanity Women are in principle not receiving money. Now it is the case that women in health care run large, important institutions and receive millions of public funds, just as a number of other organisations do. Does the representative think that when public authorities have bodies about the quality of these services, then this is an instrumental approach and that the state and local authorities should not have any idea of how these large appropriations should be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e722	There must be a big difference between participating in a bidding round in order to provide services to the public or to carry out voluntary organisational work. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association is not supported by its organisational work. They actually spend most of their time collecting money for the social work they do. However, they also provide some services to the public on the basis of tenders, and then there are common tendering rules applicable to these organisations, as is the case for other private actors. That's how we've done it in the distribution of tasks between the private and the public with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e727	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e730	Just a little case information in relation to the line change, so it shouldn't be suspended in the air: it was the previous government that introduced a freeze for new games. The current government has lifted this freeze and granted approval for new games, including from voluntary action – only to clarify it. Voluntaryness means a lot to us. Without sport, culture and other non-governmental organisations, Norway would be a much poorer country. A good society depends on good welfare arrangements. But a strong civil society and a strong community are also involved in creating a society where everyone is involved – perhaps the most important factor in creating a society that is good for everyone. This is why the Government has promoted a big message of volunteering, the largest and most comprehensive review of Norwegian volunteering ever, where the voluntary sector is recognised for its invaluable efforts and where it is stated that the framework conditions for volunteering should be improved in the years to come, and where, at the will of volunteering, the importance of volunteering is made visible. It seems that the opposition confuses a description of the great social importance of volunteering with an instrumental idea that this is the objective of voluntary activity. I appreciate the fact that an overall committee is behind the main message in the communication, namely that the voluntary sector is important. The voluntary notification has as one of its main objectives the experience of organisations of a good support instrument from the public, smaller bureaucracy, simplified support schemes, tax havens and new actions, such as a voluntary register and amended lottery rules facilitating voluntary activity. The notification also warns that in the future there will be less project support and more direct support, so that organisations themselves will have greater freedom. In addition, we significantly improve the framework conditions for voluntary organisations. In the Communication, the Government proposes a historic voluntary effort, a voluntary billion – an annual increase in payments from Norwegian Typing to the volunteering of DKK 1 billion. I heard the representative from the Progress Party talk that the message was not concrete. Well, it's very concrete. This billion is going to be over 300 million. more in the year of sport, and solid increases to many non-governmental organisations, inter alia. The rescue company. They hoisted the flag to the top and celebrated on their websites when the volunteer message came. In 2008 and 2009, we will in addition spend SEK 1.4 billion on ad hoc support for organisations that have lost large revenues following the ban on machines, so-called transitional funds. I remember that one last greeting from the previous government to these organizations was that these transitional funds, which at that time were estimated at about 900 million. NOK, should not come because the organisations had had such extra income. Now they've had a lot of extra income in addition to it; yet, the government provides good transitional resources. We are introducing a new support scheme for the local laws, the so-called grass root fraction. Anyone with a Norwegian Typing game card can choose a local layer or an association that you want to support and that will receive 5 pst. bet by the player, regardless of whether the player wins or loses. It could be between 400 and 500 million. kr right on the account, to sports teams, to corps, choirs and other local teams. Anyone who has operated a local team knows what NOK 10000, NOK 30,000 or NOK 100000 are entered in the account. This will be a real handshake to the local volunteer. It's almost not to believe that the opposition parties are opposed to this. But I am happy for the discussion when the money begins to enter the corps, choirs and sports teams – and to tell you that the Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party went against this. The money wouldn't have gotten into these accounts if they had got it as they wanted. We also reduce taxes on volunteering. As early as next year's government budget, the tax-free compensation limit from voluntary teams is doubled from NOK 2000 to NOK 4000, and the reduction limit is raised from NOK 30000 to NOK 45000. This will make it easier to provide compensation for those who make an extra effort. Again, this represents 1 per million of the tax burden that the previous government gave in total. Nevertheless, there was no place for this tax base in four years. There were others, the richest, who were most important. The hard work is an important part of voluntary work, but when all the fires in the volunteer get better working conditions, they can spend their time on the most important, namely the activity that engages them – whether it is sports, culture, social work, local charity work or other things. It's our approach to volunteering. The most instrumental approach must be to force the will to spend even more time on money collection rather than on the activity they decide. Voluntary efforts in Norway are very much too important for societal goals. A great deal of effort is being made, including: in the fields of health and youth work, rescue services and international solidarity. But that's not the goal of volunteering. The goal of volunteering is that the people who engage in it can decide for themselves what they want to do, get involved in what they burn for, and do voluntary work where you cultivate your own interests, develop your abilities and feel like part of a community. The good interaction between the public and voluntary sectors has helped to make Norway a better country to live in. Many new services are first developed by voluntary activities and then taken over by the public. That's the way it's going to be in the future. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association is mentioned here. They built the first institution for patients with tuberculosis and showed the way to control the disease, and the service was gradually taken over by the public. Some of the replicants have claimed that the message fails to mention those organisations that are critical and challenging power. They have now received a response from the government parties that they are actually mentioned in the notification. But, fortunately, the voluntary sector in Norway is so large that if we were to talk about every organization and every team, we would have to double the size of the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e759	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e763	I think it is significant when the Council of State says that he would like to hear what the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party say when the money starts to fall in. Maybe he doesn't hear anything for a while, because we don't know how this money should fall in, and we don't know how much money it is. Governments refer to the volunteer billion. He should have boasted that he has actually volunteered in front of the billion and that there will be real money for volunteering. But before the introduction of automatic monopoly, there was a surplus out to volunteer teams and organizations of $4 billion from vending machines. Then I wonder what the government wire is going to spend the rest of the profits from vending machines for, because I assume that this billion he's talking about after 2009, is on the profit from vending machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e770	Now, fortunately, it's going very well for Norwegian Typing. The representative, Woldseth, knows very well that the aim of the automatic reform was to significantly reduce turnover. We would not have had the same profits from Norwegian Typing's gaming terminals as what we have had from the machines, at least not as it was in the peak years 2004 and 2005. The real disaster of Norwegian voluntarity would have come if the Progress Party had been able to implement its policy of liberalising gambling policy: free from foreign companies, preferably with a licence, but which is very difficult to control – as we saw with the automatic reform – with increased gambling dependence, major social tragedies and less money for Norwegian voluntarity. This must be the worst policy, both in terms of social consequences and not least in terms of income for teams and organisations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e777	In its speech, the Council of State said that this as perceived by the opposition as an instrumental approach, namely that the policy objective is rather systematically linked through the communication to voluntary activity, they consider as a purely descriptive. Then I would like to point out that there is something about which signals you give, and how they are perceived. I want to go to the state budget, where we had a post that meant that Freedom Norway would have its own position, a person who would work with – I think it said – the integration perspective with voluntary organisations for next year. Now it's probably not entirely random that it's just integration that it should be working on, in connection with that we're facing a year of diversity. How does the Council of State feel that this person is going to work? Doesn't the Council of State see that it's very close to seeing such a grip as a pretty instrumental act against non-governmental organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e784	Clearly, an instrumental grip is called politics. Our policy objective is for all people in Norway to have equal opportunities to participate in organisational life. I actually thought it was a goal right divided. We see that people with a minority background are less involved in voluntary laws and organisations, especially those newly arrived in the country. We don't think it's because the organizations have set themselves the goal that they don't want immigrants. We think there are some structural problems here. Freedom Norway is concerned about it, and they have written it in their volunteer manifesto that they have made together. That is why we have made it possible for them to carry out what they themselves want. But, of course, it is also a political goal for people with a migrant background to participate in teams and organisations. A proper way, at the will of Freewill in Norway, is to have a central coordinator who can work, facilitate and help organisations with their goals. But if there's an organization that doesn't want immigrants, then it's a shame, and I want to counter it politically, but of course we shouldn't force it on them. But I really hope that the Right agrees with me that this is an important goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e791	When one belongs to the government party, one should believe that this was a volunteer message that everyone was very pleased with. But when we have listened to the organisations, there are many who are content with the description, but who do not think the measures are good enough. Voluntaryness Norway, which has been mentioned several times here, was very disappointed when they received a letter from the Government stating that a zero rate is not included in the mandate of the VAT Compensation Selection. One accepted that the problem was not part of the message, but when one knew that this was not in the selection, the disappointment was great, because many voluntary teams and organizations say that if something is done about the VAT problem, it will be the most likely thing for voluntary teams and organisations to do. Therefore, I am surprised when the government party will not even be on the proposal where we ask the government to sort out both service VAT, graduated VAT and zero rate, so that voluntary work is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e796	Firstly, it was on our own initiative that we promoted volunteering before VAT issues were clarified – this is done in a separate inquiry under the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, it is nice that volunteering is actually in the sample, both Freewill Norway and the sport movement are there and have the full opportunity to address the questions they want. Thirdly, of course, we will have a difficult process afterwards, and I have no faith that volunteering will not promote its views and arguments. But it's strange that the government party from the previous period, the Christian People's Party, did nothing about this when they were in government position. They sat there for seven out of eight years until 2005 and provided government budgets, without improving the VAT situation for voluntary activities. This could be done for the purchasing system for goods, which has been in existence since 1997, and could also be done after the VAT reform in 2001. I understand that the Christian People's Party has far greater ambitions and hopes for the framework conditions of volunteering with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in government, and that's all there is to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e803	Espen Johnsen said that if you disagree with the Government, you're against volunteering. I know that there are a good number of organizations that have been very critical for the introduction of grassroots share, and I guess they are then defined as against the Government and also against the volunteering. I won't tell them their names, because then maybe they won't get any support in the future. Nevertheless, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Council of State to guarantee – ‘you get rid of me’ has disappeared a little as a concept, because it does not matter anyway – that there will be no bureaucracy linked to the grassroots percentage. Can you guarantee that income increases so this isn't just a redistribution? And can you guarantee that the small district organizations will be the big winners, as Erling Sande said, and that it's not the clan, which is a very good purpose, and the Vålerenga who gets it – that the little ones might get some money?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e810	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e813	I think this could be a pretty simple and unbureaucratic system. It's kind of a bit fluffy about Klanen and Vålerenga. For me, the Vålerenga is much more than a tapestry team. You have 70 different nationalities who play age-determined football. I think it's an excellent purpose for a grass root fraction. I'm not going to say that everyone who disagrees with the government's policy is against volunteering, but I'll almost say that the left is approaching that point. There's at least a consistent line here, because you're as bold in government as in opposition. One was against the changes in the key in its time, which gave 800 million. It was against the idea that the money for the cultural school bag should go out to grassroots, against the 1st p.m. of the Cultural Promise, against the transitional money after the automatic reform, against the automatic reform, against the voluntary register, against the collection control, and against the grassroots percentage. So I wonder what hurt the volunteer has done to the Left, Right and Christian People's Party, since at the point after point one goes towards what is the volunteer's own desires and interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e820	Voluntaryness knows better than that, so I'm not going to argue against all of the government's plans. But I want to give him an opportunity to answer the question I asked. Can he guarantee that there will be more money? Can he guarantee that the small organizations get something? I support all the nice things he said about Vålerenga, and hope that it is printed in Addressavias as well. I would like a guarantee from the Council of State that he is able to focus on this which means that it is not only the big organizations that win, but also the small ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e827	I don't know who wins or loses. I know this is what people are going to decide for themselves. I actually trust that people will take care of their neighborhoods, that they will take care of the local sports team, their corps, the 4H association, or what's most important locally. But I can't guarantee it, because I don't decide. The whole point of the reform is that people have to decide for themselves here. It's quite incredible that the left actually goes against it. I think it's going to give increased revenues for Norwegian Typing, because it'll clearly show the relationship between playing at Norwegian Typing's game and giving money to volunteering. If we only got NOK 2-3 billion of what is now being played online, over at Norwegian Typing, it would have covered up more than the grass root. But the left does not escape the fact that they were against the new tipping, and they were against the game reform. We would have lacked many, many millions of dollars in the pot of volunteering, grassroots share or not, if the Left had been able to make an impact on its policy. I see that the representative now leaves the pulpit, but she does not escape what the Left has stood for in the government and in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e835	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e838	Freedom for all is a good concept. It says something about what we want. This big message increases knowledge and attention to the work of volunteering and the role of our communities. It provides better conditions for volunteering, both locally, regionally and nationally. The voluntary initiative is a direct follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration and a follow-up to the Government's work on fulfilling the Cultural Promise. Freedom makes our society richer, stronger and better. The main resources of voluntary activity are individuals, and there are good local teams and organisations. There is no alternative to volunteering, either in the number of people or in annual work. Only in sport are there 700,000 volunteers. There are 23 000 annual works, which amount to DKK 6 billion on a national and annual basis. Sport is a good social economy. I am not familiar with descriptions that sports organisations are not being taken seriously. As a long-standing trustee at local level, circuit level and now as a member of the board of the Norwegian Sports Association, I feel that the sport has been heard in this process related to volunteering. Of course, in addition to human resources, a good and predictable economy is an important input for all those who volunteer around our country. This is followed up by the Government and the Council of State. Sven Mollekleiv wrote in a letter to the political parties on 7 June 2007: ‘Now, politicians need to raise their eyes and take action to ensure a stable, long-term and sound income of voluntary service. We need free revenues, which organisations can use in line with their own priorities, regardless of public needs and priorities.» The transitional funds provided by the Government in 2008-2009 mean a great deal to all those engaged in voluntary work and to all those involved in this volunteer billion. Tax policy will be facilitated for single-initiated and for the clubs. We're talking about the grass root fraction. Well, here's what we're talking about, we're going to have a local commitment. It is not the major organisations that are going to take this, but local clubs and associations all over the country, from municipalities with 500 inhabitants to municipalities with 400,000 inhabitants. The mandate of the Committee on VAT Compensation is discussed. I know at least that Norway's Sports Association, Freedom Norway and others are in that selection and have the opportunity to raise their questions, their needs and their wishes. I am sure that this heavy sample, set up by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, will take those recordings seriously. And when the conclusion is to be presented during February 2008, I am sure that Freedom Norway will be pleased with the results that will be presented there. I think this is unique in Norwegian sport, Norwegian volunteering and Norwegian gambling policy, and it allows for stable framework conditions for volunteering around our country. The government's voluntary policy provides better framework conditions, increased resources for local activity in all types of teams and associations, it provides enhanced integration, enhanced inclusion across both cultures and nationalities, etc., it provides enhanced knowledge and research in a number of areas, and it also strengthens public health work and the interaction between volunteering and the public, within school everyday life, etc. Voluntary notification is the largest review of the voluntary sector ever. It gives a high level of recognition to the voluntary sector. We see that this is lifted on a political level, how many are interested, not only here in the Stortinget, but also in local governments, county councils and around public Norway. There is a commitment to Freedom Norway, there is a commitment to volunteering, and the relationship between the public sector and the voluntary sector is put on the agenda. But it is also important to bear in mind that member-based organisations around the country are to build on volunteering; they are to build on hard work, which is something unique in the European context. They must be built on democracy, they must be built on equivalency, and they must be built on loyalty. There are good environments and values that are put in focus. That's what this big message is about. It's also about keeping the members in focus, the individual in focus. Joy, community, health and honesty are the values of sport. I think this message gives ground to an important work ahead, and it gives ground for good bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e865	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e868	The voluntary work is one of the pillars of modern society. There are, to a large extent, idealists in the community working in non-governmental organisations, and it is important that the community has good framework conditions and predictability. The Progress Party has noted that it is written in the Communication that a public body has been set up to investigate the legislation on value added tax in the cultural and sporting fields and that the Government will await the design of new legislation to set up the sample. We are aware that the Minister of Finance has stated that VAT is not assessed for voluntary services, etc. in this sample. We hope that this issue is resolved, so that voluntary teams and organisations know what they have to do with. We believe that insufficient VAT compensation for sports, music, etc. to a large extent, the work of children and young people will be affected. The state must facilitate the voluntary teams and associations to allow leaders to use their time to create activity. If it gets too hard to drive, we can risk many of the supports in the community finding other things to fill the leisure time with. This will again affect children and young people. We believe that an active childhood and youth period in e.g. Sports teams, music clubs and the like is important in preventing children and young people from falling outside and entering the slope. It must not be so complicated to do voluntary work that people choose it away. Association life is already marked by the loss of automatic income, and inadequate VAT compensation can be a very heavy additional burden. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it is so important to provide a good framework for voluntary organisations. As Vice-President of a medium-sized municipality, Lower Eiker, I work near the grassroots. I would say that without the voluntary organisations, Kommune-Norway will be poor. Hundreds of thousands are engaged in this work, and they have to be cared for. The Progress Party is aware that a comprehensive voluntary sector believes that full VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations is one of the most important issues for improving the sector’s framework conditions in the future. So take volunteer Norway seriously. Listen to this Council and we will keep the voluntary sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e881	An almost empty press release, an almost empty gallery and an almost empty hall – that should be the opposite, because we are now dealing with one of the most important things this fall, because the organisations play a key role in society. They're based on commitment and community, they're schools of democracy, and they're channels for the considerable number of hours of voluntary community effort that's laid down every single day. They have enormous value in themselves, and society is totally dependent on them. It's enough to mention the sport, all of us, the very first major movement of democracy, which is still Norway's largest movement with over 2.1 million members of over 12 400 sports teams, in all local environments. The combination of peak and width is unique. In the Sports Policy document, an open and inclusive sport is chosen as the main goal. Important values are behind that choice. There are values like integrity, equivalency, tolerance, understanding and respect, values that are fundamental in every democratic society. But in parallel with that self-value, it is also obvious that some people will and can undertake important tasks on behalf of the community. The sport is an obvious partner in this way. My own circuit, Buskerud, has the vision of ‘Decrease as many as will’ and a business idea that sport in Buskerud will contribute to a society that is changing, not just by adapting, but by actively influencing. The target is physically active adults and older and physically active children and young people, every day. What we see is that the kind of goal challenges sport in a traditional sense, both in terms of the type of activity, and in terms of the target group. Sport and physical activity are not always synonymous concepts, but sport itself is willing to change to contribute in important areas. Some obvious social differences in health start early in life and are often due to social differences in activity. It is also about social differences in experience and participation. Sports at school is a Buskerud concept that spreads all over the country. We must fight poverty with work. Many support is not physically able to stand in a job. Qualification programme enables physical activity to be included in individual NAV plans. We have an IA agreement, sick leave is going down, and a lot is about physical activity. Sport is an arena for the inclusion of immigrants and disabled people. That's how I could still and still and still. Money is available in the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Ministry of Knowledge. The challenge for sport is to pursue this money through good projects. The challenge for society is to ensure stability, so it not only becomes projects that come and go, but a continuous activity and improved public health. The Sports Association is then also one of many organisations that are very pleased with the notification submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e894	The voluntary sector has long been a resource for our foreign and security policy, and this volunteering message is a good opportunity to see this in a slightly wider context. I am concerned that foreign and security policy is going out of the ivory towers on Victoria Terrace and out to the people. This is also a declared policy for the red-green government, which I will give it credit for. But to get such an opening, more than good intentions about consultation and transparency are needed. Foreign and security policy is a subject managed by a traditionally closed establishment with its own codes and rules. I believe that the voluntary sector can play an important role in promoting more transparency and breadth in processes related to this field. What I do, among other things, think, is that non-governmental organisations can set up their own professional environments asking critical questions. They can thus act as janitors, where they see the Government in the cards and take care that it keeps it laws, or point to a lack of consistency in government policy. The voluntary sector may also contribute to the creation of debate on issues related to key road choices. Such choices should not be made without a broad debate in the Norwegian community in which all stakeholders are involved. Development policy, the north and European policies are among those areas in which I believe that the voluntary sector has a great deal to do to create greater breadth and depth in our foreign and security policy. It is worth mentioning that non-governmental organisations can have a large contact network and fit into environments in which the Government does not have access, such as: make them suitable for promoting issues related to civil and political rights in countries with authoritarian boards. Moreover, the voluntary sector can make important contributions to people-to-people processes between countries. I therefore see the voluntary sector not only as an extension of the government's policy, but as a separate player who can provide important corrections to the government's policy. In order to enable non-governmental organisations to fulfil such roles, a healthy distance should be established between them and the Government. However, many of the organisations receive their main financial contributions from the Government, and in the small Norwegian environment it is not uncommon to exchange hatreds between the public and voluntary sectors. This may make it difficult for the voluntary sector to keep the necessary distance and to fulfil the role of watchman and critic. I don't think there's any simple answer to this, except that it requires care and good judgment. This is important, as I believe that in the future we will need an even larger and stronger voluntary sector, and I am thinking of a voluntary sector that is voluntary not only in its name but also in its benefit. Finally, as a volunteer a whole life: 58 pst. of Norway’s population recently replied that they had taken part in voluntary work in 2004. And most people work on a voluntary basis based on motivation; they work for a good cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e911	I think it's a bit strange to use terms for a while in the debate – I heard, among other things. Representative Bergo. It is such that the state is the apparatus of its citizens to act together in the community and society. But civil society, which in Norway has a long tradition, and which consists of non-governmental organisations, is not a complement to the state's apparatus, it's one of the foundations of our state. It is, of course, in the whole approach to this, where we have gradually begun to cross the volunteering of a level of activity in municipalities and countries, that we are going wrong in farms. Let me take some examples from the social, maybe diaconal, landscape. We have non-profit institutions that have started treatment for people with disabilities. Today, some of these treatment measures are being pressed by tenders, among others. from «Health Størst», Health South-East. In tendering, the professional language runs in legal fashion over the wise people have learned through the hard school of life, and over good professionalism about what is needed to help people who are struggling. We've now come into the black situation that if you're in prison, you'll get a glittering offer of school. That's good. If you're in a drug institution, the institution today has to fight off to make sure you get school. What is this expression for? It is an expression that some of the activities of civil society, with social traditions, which have been very important in Norway, among others. in the field of drugs, but also in other areas, the country's legal system is now pushing it to stop delivering something that everyone who has a bearing knows makes sense. Then volunteering hasn't even become a supplement, then it's become something you just don't understand. You just don't understand the phenomenon that's there. I don't want to say it's for the State Council, but the apparatus doesn't. In my time I have had some colloquial groups with the honourable Labour Party representative Bernt Bull. We have the colloquium because we sometimes feel that in both the municipality and the state there are people who almost don't understand the voluntary life, unless they've taken state science. The voluntary life must be on the pulse, you have to understand it, and then you have to listen to the language of a professional who Hakon Lorentzen has, when he describes what this is in his heart, and when Hakon Lorentzen makes his warning cry. It's just to believe me, I have some seagoing times in both municipal and state service. I know there are a lot of benevolent people, but it doesn't help with benevolent people if you don't have a precise view of civil society as a prerequisite for building community, as a prerequisite for building state, and it doesn't help if you don't know what this has done. Then I deliberately used the case of drug institutions, because it's going to be totally wrong to try to push the lives of institutions – if you've understood something as simple as that people who are struggling with life need school. That's what you get in prison, thank you for that. But if you come to a drugstore, you have trouble, because the profession or some government interest runs over the good and wise school of life. Voluntary management of the wise and good school of life. That's why an ideological and practical frontline has been drawn up in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e924	It was Trond Giske who made me draw for a three-minute post. State councils are talking about the VAT selection, and that Freewill Norway and sport are in the selection and can take up what they want. But it is not that easy for these organizations when the government has decided on the mandate and has written letters that the zero rate should not be appreciated by the selection. Then it's kind of a way to restrict the freedom a little bit for those who sit there. Voluntaryness Norway understood that voluntary notification was made before VAT cases were completed. But they were very surprised when they were told that zero is not in the mandate, and not to be deleted in this selection. I think Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg at a conference on Freedom Norway said he was aware that the organizations wanted a zero rate and better arrangements for VAT, but in that context, the government had put down a selection, so it was going to come back later. So there's a bunch of people here that have the impression that something is going to be distributed, but it's not going to be. As we heard from the representative of the Central Party, we believed that this work was going to be included in the selection. The Christian People's Party in the government was working. We got a VAT compensation scheme for voluntary organisations when we were in government, and we were also going to put down a selection. Then there was a change of government, and we are happy that the government has followed up the further work. But it's a little bit so that when there's a matter we should have done something about, that means that we keep working with it in the opposition. The government still shows that the Christian People's Party has its seat for so long in government. Even if the current government has been in place for almost two and a half years, one still indicates what has happened before, and not the possibilities that this government has actually had to implement things. I have met organizations that are not happy with the Government's efforts and volunteering. But several of them are anxious to bring criticism to a plural government, because they fear it might punish themselves to have come up with criticism when new budgets are to be submitted and new money is to be allowed. Therefore, it is extremely important that the Government allows voluntary activity and organisations to be voluntary, both in terms of criticism and praise, without fear of intimidation. In the end, the grassroots part that has been debated here should probably have gone to organizations that have renounced the income of slot machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e941	It has been interesting to follow the debate on volunteering and read the Committee’s position. There appear to be two different approaches to the voluntary sector. Government parties focus on the role of voluntary organisations as the public's extended arm as an instrument to solve different tasks. The left, for its part, is concerned with the freedom of organisations, the self-esteem of organisations. And of course, it is positive that they are also actors that solve important societal tasks. I have noticed with amazement that there is little focus on the critical role of non-governmental organisations in society. Perhaps that is the explanation that the government is so little concerned with environmental organisations and that they have been sacrificed so little attention in the message. It's alarming, because this is a sector that is characterized by skill and volunteering. It is alarming because environmental and climate work has never been as much on the agenda as it is now, and the importance of these organisations has never been greater. Therefore, they should be stimulated and given increased space for action, not neglected. For the Left, it is important to work systematically to reduce the red tape faced by the voluntary sector. There is a need for regulatory changes in a number of areas. We have to add that those who work on a voluntary basis can spend less time on bureaucracy, and we have to give them a greater economic space than many people experience today. From this point of view, it is a weakness that the VAT compensation system has not been discussed in the adjustment. Many people find it unreasonable that part of the money provided through hard work and voluntary work should go to taxes and taxes. This was the background to the proposal made by the Left in 2006 to increase the limit on the payment of employers’ contributions by non-governmental organisations. We suggested the limit increased from NOK 300000 to NOK 450,000. This was opposed by the government parties. Yes, not only that, but they said that our proposal was contrary to the objective of tax reform. Now we feel that they have included this in their budget position. In a short time, it has gone from being an impossibility to becoming part of the government's jewelry list. Now I want to challenge the government in a similar area. This applies to the limit on when taxes are due on hard work. That amount has remained unchanged for a period of 140000 kroner. I have challenged the Minister of Finance to help increase it. She said no to that. This led to a tax charge from the tax office in Stavanger when they had been on duty at the parking lot outside Viking Stadium. There is a need both to clear the legislation and to raise this threshold. I hope that this left-wing proposal will also be followed up by the Government when it comes to thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e954	First to the post from Odd Einar Dørum, which I think was an absolutely glittering post. But it wasn't a settlement with the state. It was a settlement of privatisation, tendering and competition. And it's quite right, as Dørum says, it's not the cooperation of the state with the civil sector that's the problem, but for that cooperation, it's the implementation of liberalist principles that are not at all adapted to the way the voluntary sector works. That's why the Church's Urban Commission in Oslo feels that it's becoming more difficult to do drug work, social work, because the market principles of the left-wing regime in Oslo are not adapted to the civil sector, but to a market-based system, where competition, businesses, profits and profitability govern social work. Write down every word in the minutes and get it immediately sent to Elvesuen and others in Oslo City Council. Had it become Left's policy also in Oslo, for there had been a great, great improvement in the convergence of the civil sector in this city. More here are busy with the grass root fraction. I have to say to Molvær Grimstad: The grassroots percentage allows all the organisations that are not already in the key and that have not had automatic receipts to obtain money from the key. That's what's happening. There's no constraint. It's not like these are the people who have had automatic receipts, who can now get 5 pst. Everybody can get 5 pst. We had thought of this as an invitation to all organisations such as for idealistic or social reasons have said no to automatic receipts. Now they have an opportunity to participate in Norwegian Typing's funds even if they have not had machines. But it is against the Christian People's Party. Then the question is, what is the other way that the Christian People's Party intends to do this, when you're against the grass root? Well, you have to give money to the state budget. At the same time, it is said that the voluntary sector can be careful with criticism because they fear punishment when the budget is created. Is it going to be less, or is it going to be larger, if a new billion is going to be added to the government budget? Will the freedom of voluntary organisations be greater or less when the money is to be granted over the state budget each year, with percentage distribution, etc., than when they come from the means of tipping, than they are determined by the players themselves, by the Norwegian people themselves? So there's a lot to say about the discussion about the instrumental. On the first page of the voluntary service, there is a strong warning against thinking instrumentally about the voluntary sector. This is a reconstructed problem, and I think it above all shows that the opposition has very difficult to find an alternative policy to the voluntary policy actually pursued by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e963	Let me first take the opportunity to remove all the concerns of the Council of State that there is too little left policy in Oslo. We have quite an impact on the policy in Oslo, and all the principles put forward by Mr. Dørum, are also the principles we have in Oslo. This means that if you do not go on the toughest bidding rounds, you should still be able to have good rounds of negotiations between the public and voluntary organisations. But we also have private actors, who are going to be treated in a different way again. The reason why I take the floor is that there have been questions about what is the alternative to the root fraction. Well, the alternative to the grassroots ratio is that we want to open Norwegian Typing's commissioner network. Thus, voluntary organisations could have played their own games on that network without going through Norwegian Typing's playing cards – which we could have discussed for a long time here – and without going through Norwegian Typing's bureaucracy. Maybe the organizations could clear it as well, if that's what they actually wanted. Those who have been strangled here are the small organizations, who are unable to cope with the big network that Norsk Typing has. I think there's been very little talk about research on volunteering. The left has a huge increase in this in its alternative budget. The government says they're going to research volunteering, and that it's pretty important, because people have quite a lot of prejudices and preconceived attitudes to volunteering and who it is actually who are the volunteers. In particular, we, who have worked a lot on the child and youth side in terms of volunteering, note that there is a way of thinking that it is the resource-intensive young people that are organized through voluntary organisations. Anyone who's been to a meeting in a volunteer organization knows it's the place for all the honeymoon. Here absolutely all people are welcomed. Here everyone has equal voting rights. Here everyone has the opportunity to come in. Here, people can just pay their quota, they're part of a community, anyway. I believe that the volunteer organizations may not just attract the elite, but they create an elite. A lot of young people who might not otherwise have become so active citizens in society, probably become much more active by being here. The vast majority of those who have stood here on this pulpit have probably a past in a voluntary organization, which makes them actually dare to walk on this pulpit. Then the council had its habit of tying to the left in the exchange of lines, which I'm just going to comment on briefly. It may be time for the Council of State to read the comments written in the matter. It's a good property. For example, if you go against things, it doesn't mean you're against it all. It actually means you want something better. It's a kind of Bush doctrine introduced here, that either you're for the Government, or you're against the volunteer. It's a Bush doctrine that should be a little out of place – it doesn't work in the United States anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e977	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e980	The challenge with the grassroots part is that very many organisations will easily spend a lot of time marketing their small organization to get attention around it, instead of concentrating on the organisation work. But if it were such that this 5 percent would in one way have been common to all organizations that had chosen not to take income from vending machines, one could distribute them out without one depending on a simple small local layer drifting active marketing for their team. The other thing being said is that those who are going to distribute the funds will also do it through e.g. the voluntary register. But not all organisations get involved in the volunteer register. If you're an out-of-office member of the Church, and you run a choir there, you won't be in the volunteer register. We thought this was too bad and wanted to send the matter back to the government, so that they could come back with a matter that was better thought out, and more in good health. However, organisations in general, including those that do not receive support today, are important to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e987	First of all, it's the last error. A choir that is in the Norwegian Church, in a congregation or similar, that is organized as a separate unit, as a separate organisation, can register in the volunteer register and get money from the 5%. The argument from the Left is completely incomprehensible to me. On the one hand, they are very concerned that the small ones are not going to benefit from the grass root fraction, and then you are also worried that there will be a lot of marketing. Well, then the option is to open up the Commissions' system for their own lotteries and games from these organizations. Well, Nardo is a school corps, with all due respect to report an amazing school corps, but I don't think they have the resources to launch their own game to be marketed over the Norwegian Typing Commission system. And to compete with the other games, I guess there's far more marketing required than getting the Nardo community to put the 5% on its playing card. It's not really related at all. Of course, it's the big organizations that can launch new, big games over the typing commissioners' system. You can talk about this, but at least you can't talk on behalf of the small teams and organisations, and at least not if the goal is less marketing. I think this is going to be all right. The local environment itself is going to figure out what's most important to them in the local environment, and it's going to spread well beyond, maybe better than member-based systems, because you're really seeing what's important in the local environment. So in this debate we have not been given an answer to what the alternative is, for example. to the policy of gambling. One billion dollars is going to go above the state budget, some say. Others say it's only to be opened to others with a license, etc. It's at least so that volunteering is highly skeptical of it. I believe that the opposition is largely influenced by the fact that they have listened little to volunteering themselves. It can also look at the comments that criticise the public health project in cooperation with sport. You're in and out of control, but it's an instrumental idea. Let me refer to the Norwegian Sports Association’s sport policy document for the 2007–2011 period, where it is written that sport wants to cooperate, among others. with public and other voluntary organisations in order to contribute to ‘better public health through a comprehensive and qualitative good activity offer in the layers’. I'm waiting for the crackdown of the opposition with the instrumental thinking in the Norwegian Sports Federation. So this is the desire of the sports movement, and we're following it up. You have to listen to volunteer, and then we work together on a good policy. So we are now in the middle of this process, and the opposition is actually going to sign up for constructive cooperation on good results. We were also hardworking in our criticism when we were in opposition. But sometimes we worked together to get things done, and I would recommend the opposition to use that opportunity for the rest of the magnificence, to register entirely out of a political area such as volunteering, across non-governmental organisations, and across the politics of the government parties, so no one earns.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1002	The opposition has gathered around a set of notes that is a settlement with what we see as an instrumental approach. This is a result of a long race. There is a long run over many years, where, in particular, the opposition has also participated in large parts of this process. It's a historical process. We now think this is a development that has come so far that it is necessary to put down the foot. It is necessary to turn on some warning lights. It is necessary to actually signal an alternative course. The later position of not having noticed, but it is located and formulated in our Document No. 8 proposals, such as: describe 13 concrete actions, all of which are of a general nature, all of which will strengthen voluntary cultural life or volunteering in general in an open approach, without giving political signals. The position underestimating is the incredibly strong signal effect that lies in the entire structure of the volunteer message. It is clear that when you constantly give clear signals that those who are responding to what is wanted will probably be rewarded, yes, then you will get a different course. Voluntary activities constitute a large and very complex area. It's not that you can set a rule against the other, and so, look for a clear direction. What is a clear signal from us is that when the government probably comes back to all the 13 measures that we have requested and that are to a relatively small extent concrete in the communication, but which in some areas have been signalled that it will come back, yes, then there will be no problem finding support in the opposition to implement it. This is primarily a signal of how we want policies designed towards general lines, instead of running after a course that signals as clearly as you can. When we are involved in the whole field of institutions or organisations that operate closely against public actors: Yes, of course we need good and constructive cooperation between countries and organisations, for example. hospitals and the various activities of the Salvation Army. It's in many situations we're going to have it, of course. Then there is an even more demanding balance to ensure that the initiative remains with the volunteers. Then is not a general wording in an opening chapter enough. Then it's actually what's in the rest of the message, which is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1015	I want to give the opposition right in one thing in today's debate, and that's that it's trying to turn the volunteer message into an ideological debate. With respect to reporting, I have to say that what they come up with is very high flying, and you almost have to have a doctorate in philosophy to understand what they mean. If you read the setting, there are many and long ideological investigations and claims that end up in nothing. It should be expected that if you disagree so ideologically with the government's voluntary policy, you have an alternative, and it must be made known in the vote through alternative proposals. If you read the proposals, you can see that there are seven proposals promoted by the opposition. Three of the proposals concern the financing of the voluntary sector in an area where at least I believe there is only a degree difference between the government parties and the opposition. The last four proposals concern gambling policy. Most of the last four proposals are about weakening the role of Norwegian Tipping as an actor in raising money for the voluntary sector in Norway. What's quite eye-catching is that parts of the opposition are alive Norsk Typing and look at them as the big, ugly wolf. In the government parties, we see Norsk Tipping as an important contribution to giving more money to volunteering. We actually want to strengthen Norwegian Typing, precisely because the option is international gaming companies that enter the Norwegian market and take a larger and larger share of the money that people are willing to play for. We want Norwegian Typing to remain large and strong, so that we get most of these revenues to volunteer teams and organisations in Norway. That's why I think it's quite perceptive that the opposition is moving towards the grass root fraction, a measure that will obviously help to get local involvement, and that will help local teams and organisations get a few extra thousand dollars in their pockets, which they absolutely depend on. The most eye-catching thing is the proposal of the Left, Right and Advance Party, which wants to end the gambling monopoly by opening up the Commission network to other actors, companies such as Bets and Landbrooks, which are international gaming companies where the money that comes into those companies goes into the pockets of the major international gambling companies, and not, as is done through Norwegian Tipping, to voluntary teams and organisations. I think it is quite alarming that the opposition in this way wants to weaken the voluntary organisations in Norway by weakening the tipper monopoly to Norsk Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1026	I really didn't mean to say more, but the representative Gjul provoked enough for me to do it. Firstly, the representative Gjul says that the opposition makes four proposals on gambling policy. Yes, it is not very strange, when there is a terrible amount of money managed in Norwegian Typing. Norwegian Typing spends a lot of money. The size is only getting a little knowledge of how this money is distributed. So that Norwegian Typing is the big, ugly wolf. It's not that Norwegian Typing is the big, ugly wolf, but I think the government parties are so desperate to have control of the big money bag coming from Norwegian Typing, that they can't see that there are other possibilities of getting income on the game. It is okay that the representative Gjul brings forward foreign gaming companies. As I said in my previous post, it is fully possible to do so, for example. in the United Kingdom, where 17 p.m. taxes levied by the gambling companies go to voluntary work. It's completely possible to do it in other ways. But it is also possible for the large organisations to bring games, for example. Red Cross, that is, the ten humanitarian organizations. So that gives the possibility for the smaller teams and organizations to maybe use the grass root fraction. When we then heard that the representative Lund Bergo said that it was Norwegian Typing who had found out about this to get more people to play, so that you got more in Norwegian Typing's box, and so it was my assumption that the government wanted more money into that box, along with Norwegian Typing. We know that Norsk Tipping has been an architect for several suggestions in the past. So to the second part of the representative, Gjul's posts, that we don't come up with concrete measures. Then I just want to say as the representative Thommess said: I don't think the representative Gjul has read Document No. Our 8-proposal is particularly good. There are 13 different measures that can be taken to increase not only the space for thought but also the space for action. There are concrete instruments that will improve the framework conditions for voluntary teams and organisations. I would advise the representative Gjul to read all documents in the matter before she makes any claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1039	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2. [[Footing, see page 1608]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1055	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1609]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1071	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1610]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1087	I just want to put forward the proposal in the vote from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, where we ‘about the Government’s briefing on the human resources situation in the kindergarten sector in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget’. Otherwise, I refer to the debate that has taken place during the budgetary procedure, on childcare facilities and the challenges of getting enough preschool teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1099	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has drawn up the proposal she referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1611]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1117	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. At the same time, the President will note that the Minister of Oil and Energy has expressed a wish to have an extension of his speaking time in order to provide the Stortinget with an orientation on a matter in today's media on Mongstad and the CO2 problem. The President will therefore propose that the speaking time of the Council of State be increased by 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a succession of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1131	«Scarve has relieved, we are in progress». This can be read at the back of the SAS Norway magazine. Furthermore, it says that this is the largest industrial investment coming on the Nordic base in the next few years, that BP is implementing skills-enhancing measures to strengthen interested companies in North Norway, and that this will become visible on Helgeland. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that the Committee chose to deal with the issue of the development, installation and operation of Skarv before the new year, as the operator has contracts pending. I'm not going to go through the whole Skarv concept, but the expansion solution includes a floating production and storage ship, seabed installations and gas export pipes. The investment volume is over NOK 31 billion. The Committee agrees with the solution as it stands today and knows that the operator has assessed other expansion solutions, but due to flexibility and costs, production ships with turntables were selected. It's a little strange that the Christian People's Party and the Left are disappointed with the expansion solution that the Government is using. Then they are disappointed with their own Bondevik government, for this concept was developed in the time of the Bondevik government and finally adopted in the autumn of 2005. Why the Christian People's Party and the Left had no greater influence that time, this government cannot be charged for. What is regrettable is that electrification from land cannot be used on this type of ship. With this expansion, CO2 emissions will increase by up to 1 pst. in Norway. The Government of the Ministry of Oil and Energy has taken the consequences and is now instructing the lawyers of Skarv to draw up a programme to facilitate transfers of large quantities of power to production ships. This programme shall be submitted during 2008. It is important that legal practitioners are allowed to use the whole of 2008 for this work. No one's earned half a job. We want a full investigation that tells us about the possibilities of electrifying production ships. Power will also have emissions at sea, but it has been assessed that the solutions chosen are the best from an environmental point of view. I believe that the development and operation of the Skarv field will bring about ring-effects on land, especially on Helgeland, and will give the region's business a boost. The already established cooperation between BP and the supply network for oil and gas in the north, LOG Nord, means that large deliveries are expected in the region, and in the Nordic countries. Petroleum development shall benefit local communities and parts of the country. It is therefore gratifying that the entire Committee assumes that Nordland is a regional unit for ring effects, since Skarv is a field outside the Nordic region. I am afraid that a number of political actions can end the diversity of Norwegian soil. This was all the parties concerned about during the treatment of the StatoilHydro case. Since it is a political wish that the smaller foreign companies take on more and more of the operator's tasks, I believe it is important to look at the overall framework of these companies. Will we in the future only demand electrification, cost what it will cost for the companies, with or without enough supply from land, and will we in the future demand that their entire operating organisation be placed north of 62th parallel at field expansions in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea, even if the companies do not have the opportunity to establish two or more fully-fledged operating organisations? Will they be operators on a Norwegian base, or do they choose to move out of the country? This will be discussed when the kerosene notification was submitted in 2008. I believe that the model that BP has used for Skarv development is a good solution in this case. It creates jobs in the region and makes it visible value creation related to petroleum activities in the north. This is essential for future petroleum activities in the northern seas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1160	This is a nice thing to discuss. It is a matter for which the whole Storting largely agrees unanimously on almost all points. There are several reasons to rejoice today. First of all, we are witnessing a project that represents good value creation. It provides a good net value creation for the future, to exploit oil resources we are good at, and it is very important when we look at developments in Norwegian petroleum activities for the time being. On the gas side we are doing relatively well, but on the oil side we see a significant reduction in the rate of production. Then it is important that we manage to realize the good projects that exist, so that we also have an industrial business that renews itself, that brings new findings, that is produced when the old ones end. We should have had several such projects, so we hope that the Government will adopt an offensive policy in relation to exploration and development. We are also witnessing a project that has good solutions – it provides some good ring-effects locally, it provides employment locally, a take-up of Norwegian technology, and not least I want to commend BP for deliberately adding that many of the project tasks are divided into pieces that are so small that local suppliers can be involved and actively compete for them, unlike what we have seen in some previous projects, where the tasks have become so large that there are only large Norwegian and foreign companies that have had the opportunity to compete for them. The debate on electrification of the socket is continuing. It is also the subject of this case. I think the solution we have found is good. One shall not risk the risk of this project being postponed, or the costs are so high that it is only being jeopardized, because a person wants to trump through a principle. Electrification supports the Progress Party where it makes sense, either because it is a short distance from country, or because, for example, one. implements measures where it is natural to electrify when upgrading. We look forward to electrification of liquid production units, and Sevan Marine's solution seems exciting, but I have a great understanding that it was not possible to include it in this context, simply because it came too late into the project's progress. If one took that solution now, it would delay it by several years. When someone knows what kind of competition it is to get capital from the oil companies, I don't think it would be smart to delay that project. I think this is a good project as well because we get more operators on a Norwegian base. BP is already an operator, but there are more fields operated by others than StatoilHydro. There's no goal in itself to counter StatoilHydro, but it's a goal to get maximum value creation on the socket, and then we need a lot of teams of expertise that can compete for reality descriptions and solutions. It's going to give you a larger width, and it's going to get sharp in place, and it's going to be good. I also think it is very positive to register the unanimous support from Stortinget. It has not always been the case when oil products have been treated, that all batches have felt ‘this is good’. Now there are a few people who are looking at electrification and environmental measures, but no one is going directly against this project. I think that's very positive, because the impressions that have been made in the media, both in the case of the Statfjord accident last week, and in the case of the discharge from the Minister of Finance, which has just been strongly moderated, are that there are some parties that really do not want the oil activity to develop and expand. When we look at the specific issues, we see that the resistance does not exist. The progress party believes that it should have looked at this matter anyway, was the location of the operating organisation. We think it's a little strange that one says rhetorically from the Government that one wants to pursue an active north-eastern policy, and one wants an active district policy. So get an oil field outside of Middle Norway, but don't put the entire operating organization there. One only puts parts of it there. We find that regrettable. We want to get maximum support from the other parties, to get a majority for our proposal together with the Christian People's Party. I note that the case rapporteur says that this debate comes about in connection with the oil notification. We are very happy to accept that debate, and hope that we get a good analysis of the facts, both historical and the possibilities in the future. I take up the proposal on which the Progress Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1181	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1184	Like the two previous speakers who have spoken here, it also seems to the Right that is a happy thing we have to deal with today. What could be a little bit of a shame is that it might be darkened by the orientation of another matter. I think that's a little sad, because that attention should have been left alone in this case. This is a small case in Norwegian oil history, but for the new region, north region, it is a very large, important and significant matter. I just want to say, in a small confession, that when we're outside the Helgeland coast, just west of Lake Sand, there's a lot of people in the north who don't use the term Mid-Norway. Even though we're north of the Norwegian Sea, you're very conscious in the north of having the boundaries clear. I think it is absolutely vital for the development of this case and the upcoming activities that now one sees that activity on the base in the north produces ring effects in the north. Norwegian policies need to take over and understand. At least those who are enthusiasts, who will be involved in the development in this area, have to be aware of this. It may be even more true for companies whose highest goal is to participate in development, activity and exploration in the north. Then they have to assume that you have to have the neighborhood in order, you have to have the legality, you have to have the uproar, you have the fields outside you, who take the environmental loads, you have to see that activity should be reflected on land, as you have built up the rest of Coast Norway from the Throne Layer border and south to perhaps the most successful coastline in the world. That's why it's a big day for Helgeland. It's also a big day when you look forward to what can happen, because there's clear parallelities here. You can compare with what's happened in Middle Norway, especially on the Moor Coast. There is no doubt that once you've had Norne in the past, when there's now a finishing job on the collapse treatment of Skarv and then Idun, even though it's at the same time with Skarv, when Victoria comes, and hopefully Luva and Stetin will have an activity with so many fields in operation that if the right grip is implemented as most actors want, I think you can be able to see ring-effects on land, also in the Helgeland region, where the supplier industry, goods and services can be recruited locally, which will in turn increase the possibility of getting button shooting even further north. But I repeat that it is very important that companies and Norwegian policies take on board the need to have a development in the activity on land, while opening up new areas. Let me also say that it is said very nicely about the operator. There's a lot of nice saying about BP in this context. The company has taken clear initiatives. They have themselves proposed the creation of an operational support unit responsible for logistics, procurement, maintenance, etc. in relation to the supply base in Lake Sandness. I note with interest that at least from the local team there is a much more positive adjective to BP than in the review of Statoil, which, after all, has operated on Norne for quite some time. When we see the turnover of the supply base in Lake Sandness by operating one of the country's most profitable fields, it's as annual turnover, similar to that of a branch of either Rema or Rimi, for nothing to count. It is a pleasure to note that BP has had a different approach. Let me say that I have also registered that there are many who have wanted the operation to be located in Harstad, in Stjørdal or elsewhere. But I think that overall is a very good solution that is proposed, and to which the Right has no problem joining.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1202	I want to start by saying that I listened carefully to Ivar Kristiansen's posts. In particular, I ate my ears when he said that the case could be ‘something darkened’ and I waited for the continuation. I thought he might say something about the Skarv expansion that increases Norwegian CO2 emissions by 1 pst, and that was where the eclipse was. But it certainly wasn't like that in the world of Ivar Kristiansen and Right, and I think that's interesting, not least given that we have just concluded the climate negotiations in Bali, and that we have just handed out a peace prize to the United Nations Climate Panel and Al Gore. Sick if many of us naturally view this as a joyous day compared to the fact that Skarv development will create new optimism, jobs, etc., I don't think it is worth a party that wants to emerge with a very environmentally friendly and climate friendly side, not to touch this side by this day, namely that with this we are increasing Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 1 pst. Because that's a serious situation. Scurvy is planned to be developed as a completely new production ship with turntables and five well frames on the seabed. The operator has assessed other expansion solutions, but due to flexibility and costs, production ships with a turntable were selected, as explained by the rapporteur. On the SV side, we believe that Skarv development shows the challenges we face in oil policy in the future. We are concerned that we should learn from some of the mistakes that have also been made in this matter. We want to take a look at what we can do in the future, because we believe that Skarv-saka can give us important lessons if we agree that it is an important goal to reduce Norwegian emissions. Let me do three examples of that: Firstly, the fact that billions of money could be invested without a concession being granted. As a result, a table quickly emerges. Secondly, the expansion solution chosen, with floating turntable production and storage ships, impedes an emission-free power solution from land. However, this is a decision and a neglect that has been committed many years ago, as the representative Torny Pedersen also pointed out in his statement. Thirdly, the lack of transparency and democracy in the processes. This applies in general to the concession system. Here, too, the Minister of Oil and Energy has signaled a willingness to enter into the systems of greater transparency, transparency and democracy. In the case of new field developments, field electrification shall be investigated. This has also been done in connection with Skarv development. The operator considers that there are no possible technical solutions to electrify a production ship with a turntable on such deep water. There is uncertainty with a power cable of 370 metres which has to rise from the bottom and through the turntable. This is not safe technology for today, while the distance to land is 200 km. It is regrettable that shore-side electrification cannot be used, but at the same time positively that the operator has facilitated the electrification of the entire process system. This will in future provide options to replace the gas turbines with a converter station allowing the use of other power sources. The Ministry of Oil and Energy will instruct the lawyers of Skarv to implement a programme to facilitate the transfer of large quantities of power to production ships. The Programme shall be completed by the end of 2008. It is important to stress that an overall committee has high expectations for this work, which can provide technology for electrification of production ships in the long term. In SV we will follow this carefully. I would like to mention to the extent that we have noticed that the Right, which has presented common demands with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the climate negotiations related to electrification, is not included in the comments of its two climate comrades in the setting related to electrification in this matter. I would also like to mention briefly that we in SV are very pleased that the oil and energy minister will resume the discussions on green certificates with Sweden. Creating a renewable energy market must be a top priority in the future. In this context, it is worth noting that the Nordic Working Life magazine estimated that increased renewable energy investment could provide up to 425,000 jobs in the Nordic region. So there's a big market within this, and future is going to be renewable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1236	Recent weeks have been marked by climate change and the efforts made at national and international level to address the fight against global climate change. The Bali negotiating meeting ended three days ago, and last week Al Gore and the UN received the Peace Prize for their efforts to spread knowledge about the serious climate change that threatens our planet. This throws a rather strange light on the matter we have to deal with today. In the middle of a time when we are faced with the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we are dealing with a matter that bears the opposite direction. During the operational period, the sharp field will emit 490000 tonnes of CO2 annually, which means that the annual national greenhouse gas emissions will increase by 1 pst. These emissions will make compliance with Norway’s greenhouse gas reduction obligations even more difficult, and Skarv’s emissions will need to be compensated by other emission reduction measures. The Christian People's Party is disappointed with the expansion solution that the Government is using for the Skarv field. Liquid production ships with turntables make an emission-free power solution from land difficult. This means that an additional installation on a Norwegian base is equipped with highly polluting gas turbines with power supply. However, it is good to note that the installations are arranged for electrification at a later stage. The Christian People's Party believes it is good that rightholders are required to implement a development programme for electrification of the production ship. However, we believe that the programme must be submitted to the authorities before the proposed government and completed by the end of 2010 at the latest, for the purpose of this development must be to electrify the Skarv field as early as possible. When the Christian People's Party chooses to vote in favour of this expansion, it is mainly because preinvestments have been made in the field of 4 billion kroner, and because we see great opportunities to put in place a solution with electrification in the relatively short term. The Christian People's Party wants to learn from this matter and make sure it does not repeat itself. We believe that plans for the development and operation of petroleum fields which are not initially based on electrification should not be approved for the future, i.e. shore or other emission-free force. We believe that this requirement must be incorporated into all forthcoming concession rounds on the Norwegian continental shelf. The petroleum sector currently accounts for a quarter of national greenhouse gas emissions. The Christian People's Party is skeptical of the large preinvestments made in the Skarv field. The Government should consider changes in the procedures relating to the treatment of future development on Norwegian pedestal, where Stortinget is given the opportunity to deal with the matter without corresponding guidance. The Christian People's Party also believes it is important that the Oil Directorate is given a stronger mandate to work towards the choice of non-emissionary expansion solutions for petroleum field developers. This should be clarified in the allocation letter from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In order to better facilitate the electrification of oil installations in the future, it will also be important for the Government to speed up the announced investment in the development of new renewable energy. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the signals that the Government will now resume negotiations with Sweden on green certificates. Pending any negotiated outcome, support schemes for the development of new renewable energy should be considerably strengthened. This is also a clear demand from the energy industry. The representative of Thorkildsen had in his speech a focus on SV wanting to review the oil policy. The Christian People's Party uses this matter to begin a review of oil policy. I cannot see that the representative Thorkildsen and SV have their own comments that go in the direction of such a review as she is today saying SV wants. The Christian People's Party is concerned that new expansions of oilfields north of the 62nd parallel will benefit the local environment and the parts of the country in terms of jobs and activities. It is therefore wrong to accept the location of the Skarv Operations Organisation in Stavanger when the oil field is outside Lake Sandness. The Christian People's Party therefore considers that it is necessary to require the operator of Skarv to localise the operating organisation north of the 62nd parallel. I'll bring this up with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1265	The representative Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1268	There are still large petroleum resources on the Norwegian base, and we will also in the years to come in this room manageable plans for the development and operation of fields on the base. The Skarv extension is already described by previous speakers, and I'm not going to repeat what has been said, just underline some points that have been central to the Center Party in the process. Electrification of the socket is environmentally beneficial measures under certain conditions, namely the availability of clean power on land and the availability of technology to enable this electrification. The centre party had also preferred to see Skarv drift with environmentally friendly power from land, but in this case these provisions are not in place. With that in mind, we believe from the Central Party that it is positive that the company has facilitated the future use of other energy sources, and we are pleased with the programme that the Minister of Oil and Energy has imposed on legal entities to drive forward the technology necessary for electrification of this type of production ship. Then to the ring-fences of the region. The centre party is slipping over the ringing effects of the Skarv extension on the region in terms of activity and workplaces. We are busy with an active petroleum management in line with the instructions provided in the legislation. And we're concerned that the expansion of the socket is going to give jobs on land in the region in question. Therefore, we are particularly pleased that this should be an important focus in the coming petroleum message. Finally, the sharp expansion of the forest brings with it significant environmental challenges through increased emissions. It is therefore appropriate to take lessons from this and other developments to ensure more environmentally friendly solutions to the socket in the future. All the time we don't have the power to deal with the emissions that come into the wake of our petroleum industry, there's an increase in emissions in the atmosphere. The government is taking this problem seriously, and the effort that CO2 capture and storage efforts and to produce environmentally friendly forces are examples of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1285	The left will vote to give the Ministry of Oil and Energy the agreement to approve the development and operation of Skarv. It is a project that can generate significant quantities of oil and gas and can contribute to value creation and significant revenues. It must also be expected that the local environment and the national community concerned will benefit significantly from the development through jobs and activity. The progress party Ketil Solvik-Olsen expressed some surprise that parties that had been critical of the release on Statfjord now voted in favour of this expansion. I can explain the position of the left. It is that we have long thought that in some areas there is such an obvious conflict between oil activity and the environment that one should have petroleum-free zones. These are areas of the Lofoten and the Vesterål. But that is not the kind of area we are discussing here, so we have a good connection in our policy in this area. It's still the only party in this room that went to the election against all the oil activity in the Barents Sea is SV. This case, however, is an illustration that it can be difficult to get a relationship between what we politicians say we want and what we actually do. 2008 will be a year of record CO2 emissions in Norway. The petroleum sector accounts for a significant proportion of these emissions. That is why we need to get a system of electrification of existing installations, and we need to get a system that makes new expansions based on power from land. We regret that a solution has been chosen for Skarv that will generate large emissions and that does not rely on power from land. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party have therefore promoted their own proposal to shed light on what we can actually do today, and that is to put greater pressure on the program to be implemented to develop technologies to get transfers of large quantities of power to production ships. It is appropriate to make provision for shore-side power supply when a secure solution for electrification is available for the area we are discussing today. We also believe that it should be stated that new projects should be based on power from land and that this should be included in the call text. There is also a need to redefine the procedures for dealing with future developments, so that no investment is made that effectively binds the final decision. The left is concerned that the development of oil and gas fields will benefit neighbouring communities and parts of the country. This is also true in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. We point out here that the Committee points out that the Government will come back to this problem of location in the light of the notification of petroleum, which is expected to be presented in 2008. It is clear that there is a clear link between the possibility of electrifying our oil and gas installations and the amount of power available on land. Not least in this perspective, it is depressing to note that after two years there is now a return where one was at the change of government, namely in the negotiating situation with Sweden regarding green certificates. This means that we have wasted two years where we could have generated significant amounts of clean energy on land — which would also have been interesting in the context we are discussing here. Now we have a hope that the government will succeed this time in the negotiations with Sweden. Some guarantee you don't have. It is therefore essential that the Government also provide an alternative to green certificates that can provide large amounts of renewable energy. Then one has to significantly adjust the rates that are within the current system. Today, Norway’s record high emissions of CO2 and one of Europe’s worst renewable energy support systems are, therefore, a very poor combination.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1310	Skarv is a good project for the further development of Norwegian petroleum activities. I am therefore pleased that the Committee endorses the Government's proposal to expand the field. I know that this is not just a result of a hectic interview here in Stortinget. The reason why we've got a good agreed solution to Skarv is a good job of everyone involved, and not least because it's been an active and constructive local and regional commitment to get a solution that has a good effect on Helgeland and Nordland. Power will have a supply base and operational support unit in Lake Sandness and helicopter base in Brønnøysund. The rest of the operating organisation will be located in Stavanger. The solution leads to a strengthening of the base environment in Helgeland. Strongness will lead to increased employment in the national part of the country. BP has already cooperated with various actors on development of competence in the region. Several supplier seminars have already been held at Helgeland. Supplier networks facilitate cooperation between local enterprises and the major suppliers of the project. We have good experience with the use of supplier networks through the development of Snow White and Worm Lange. I believe that the Skarv extension will also be a good example of how we can have ring-effects locally and regionally. The operator has assessed different power solutions for Skarv and found that a turbine installation on the ship is the best solution. Forces from countries have also been assessed. There are currently no technical solutions necessary to transmit power through the turntable on a production ship. There are major technological challenges and high costs of developing and testing a solution for power from land to a production ship. The Government has therefore conditional upon the rightholders of Skarv to implement a programme designed to facilitate the development of technologies for the transfer of large quantities of power to production ships. The Programme shall be submitted to the authorities by the end of 2008. There are still some unanswered questions that remain before we can draw power from land to the base, both in terms of security of supply and transfer technology. This is therefore an important programme to move forward in the process of reducing CO2 emissions from the petroleum industry. I think it is important to stress that there are no shortcuts in this work, but we simply have to build stone on stone. Significant pre-investments have been made in the project. The project is exposed to costs of DKK 4 billion in December 2007. The Ministry has been briefed on developments and has clearly communicated that consent to pre-investment is conditional on not providing guidance for the approval of the project by the authorities. However, I would like to stress that pre-investment on such a scale is unfortunate, and I assume that pre-investment on this scale will not be a new practice. The development of Skarv is one of the biggest developments in the years to come. The field will provide a good contribution to the infrastructure in the northern part of the Norwegian Sea and contribute to the further development of the resources in the area. The field has a long life expectancy and will lead to significant ring-effects both nationally, regionally and locally. Skarv shows that the Norwegian base still has a lot to offer. Then I've been allowed to inform about the relationship with CO2 management in Mongstad, and I understand that the president wants to take it under this agenda item. The government has set ambitious targets for CO2 management. Among other things, analyses from the International Energy Agency show that as much as 20-28 pst. CO2 emissions of the world may be reduced by means of CO2 capture and storage. This says something about how important it is that we continue with great efforts to contribute to the deployment of CO2 capture and storage technologies. The partnership of the CO2 capture testing centre in Mongstad, consisting of DONG Energy, Shell, StatoilHydro, Vattenfall and Gassnova, has carried out thorough investigation and planning work. In this context, I would like to inform you that the Government has joined the partnership’s recommended progress plan and cost estimate for the planning phase up to the investment decision of the test centre. The Parties agree that it is necessary to use time and resources up to the fourth quarter of 2008 to ensure a sound basis for investment decisions. The parties, who are heavy industrial actors with broad competence in this type of complex project, point out that the test centre is a complex project, where there is a need for thorough preparation and planning. As a consequence, the planned start-up has been estimated until 2011. The results of the planning work carried out by the contracting parties show that the costs of the planning phase will be higher than the estimated contract date in June. Planning is now budgeted for a total of approximately 260 million. DKK, of which approximately 120 million. are linked to infrastructure planning and preparation in Mongstad. The parties have agreed that StatoilHydro will advance the planning costs of approximately 120 million. until the time of the investment. The wasted planning costs will be borne by the parties who decide to participate in the construction and operation of the facility. With the new information on progress in planning, the 2008 budget requirement is likely to be less than estimated in St.prp. No 1 for 2008. The Government will return to the Storting with detailed information on the status and progress of the project and, where appropriate, proposals for revised appropriations under the revised budget for 2008. The State has taken responsibility for the establishment of a transport and disposal solution for 100 000 tonnes of CO2 per. years from the test centre. Several alternative solutions have been considered, including: temporary transport of CO2 to Sleipner or Snow White by ship, delayed timescales for full scale pipeline transport and postponement of transport solution from the test centre to infrastructure for full scale facilities on Mongstad and Kårstø are in place. The total cost of a temporary ship solution is estimated at DKK 3 billion. On this basis, the Government has decided to terminate work on a temporary ship transport solution. In order to help balance the emissions of captured CO2 from the testing centre at Mongstad for a period – we are talking about a period of three to four years – the Government assumes that emissions equal to an annual emission of 100000 tonnes of CO2 will be purchased until the installation is linked to a full-scale transport and storage solution. I would like to stress that the work on establishing a full-scale transport and landfill solution for CO2 continues. Furthermore, the Ministry of Oil and Energy will immediately undertake work to assess how CO2 from the test centre can be connected to a permanent CO2 transport system when it comes into operation. The government will return to the Storting with an assessment of the budgetary needs for 2008 related to the work on the CO2 transport and storage solution. In the case of investments in the full-scale installation, they are planned to take place in 2012. The start time of the full-scale installation in 2014 is fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1390	I will address the CO2 project in Mongstad in my question. I note that in the case of all major CO2 projects in the case of gas power plants, the government has been on the waving front. Kårstø was suspended from 2009 to 2012, Tjeldbergodden was scrapped, Hammerfest was not granted a concession, and at Mongstad we now get the first postponement. The Mongstad project was particularly exciting and received whole-hearted support from the Progress Party, because it provided a reasonable run in building pilot plants, testing and evaluating the plant and then making investment decisions on a full-scale facility. Such a project should be implemented. With this postponement, there is reason to fear that you will not have enough time to test and evaluate the pilot plant until you have to make the investment decision. Can the Council of State give a time horizon for how long to test this before the investment decision has to be made? It's not enough for it to be built. The Snow White system shows that many problems can arise even with the technology you thought was mastery. Is it safe to make an investment decision in 2012 with the information available to you?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1405	Firstly, I am pleased with the enthusiasm of the Progress Party for the Mongstad project. This is a very demanding project. Now that we have chosen to inform the Storting that it will not be an investment decision until the fourth quarter of 2008, it is based on the clear advice we have received from the partnership that, as we know, consists of DONG Energy, Vattenfall, Shell and StatoilHydro. We assume that we will start the full-scale plant in 2014 and take the clear starting point – we have discussed this with the partners – that we will have sufficient time to carry out testing with the setup that we have now briefed Stortinget on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1410	My question is about Skarv development. Formerly, in the case of field development in the Norwegian Sea, operational organisations have been substantially or wholly added to one of the regions bordering the Norwegian Sea. It has been an explicit objective of a large majority in this house to build strong operating environments north of Dovre. Then, in the paradoxical situation, the head of the Central Party, as the State Council of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, now chooses to abandon this established policy. So my question is, is this a sign that we have a new policy? Is the government going to follow up on this in later expansions? I remind you that the barbed wire itself says that the field we are dealing with today is one of the biggest extensions in the future. Is it so that the Government will base this principle on further field development in the Norwegian Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1417	The government, including the Minister of Oil and Energy, who is also, incidentally, the head of the Central Party, is deeply concerned about how to manage to create good ring-effects of the petroleum activity on land. I understand that the Progress Party expresses the same commitment. That's very good. We're going to work in the future to put a lot of emphasis on just taking advantage of the possibilities that exist. In the case of Skarv, we will get approx. 40 new employees in Lake Sandness directly linked to the supply base or operational support unit. These are important jobs in the region. We also place great emphasis on involving the supplier industry in the future. And overall, I believe that we will see very acceptable ring-effects of this project in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1424	That's a dramatic news story for the State Council to present to the Stortinget. One thing is that it carries towards a year's postponement in time, it's lost time. It carries against an increase in costs, where one suggests a doubling. I think there's every reason to ask the question: what kind of pre-work is the department that has done in these cases, which is based on previous advice given in the Stortinget? At the same time, we were presented here a week ago through the media that the same, if not equivalent, problems have now been identified in the Snow White field – over two months with 1.1 million tonnes of CO2 emissions, 2 pst. of the total emissions of Norway. Today, we are also told through the media that the latest new information on the nation's so-called moon landing project has been known by the Council of State for three weeks. Can the Council of State confirm, if necessary, that she has been aware of this information during the last three weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1432	Firstly, through the decision taken by the Government regarding the test centre, we will contribute to the release of 100 000 tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere, for which we are going to buy quotas. I would like to remind the representative of Kristiansen that his government contributed to the construction of Snow White in Melkøya. There's a gas power plant that stands and emits 1 million tonnes of CO2 per. years, and there were no plans for purification. When it comes to the issue of lost time – no, there is no question of lost time here. We've listened to the commercial actors that we're busy with in the project at Mongstad. They have told us that in order to ensure a proper time cycle, we are dependent on expanding the time horizon somewhat. It's also the only thing that will give us a proper technological run forward. We're dependent on that. I am concerned that we should ensure that we have safe ground under our feet in the further work on this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1445	The government's gas-power lifts in the case of Kårstø and Mongstad were in no way quality-proof when they were given. They were tailor-made to join the team. If there is something I am convinced of, it is that the country's prime minister has always known that buying quotas is significantly cheaper than developing this project in Norway. And he has known that what we are facing today would be the end of this matter. There is no need to put their trust in the promises given for full-scale cleaning in 2012 at Kårstø and in 2014 at Mongstad. Every year has been shifted as far as they approach. My question to the Council of State is: Is what is happening now, in line with the concession given to the Mongstad plant, where I guess emission limits are set in line with the ambitions you had? And when it is that the Council of State has known what is now going to be the end of Mongstad for several weeks, why hasn't the public and the Storting been informed about it? Did it not fit into the exhibition window before the negotiations in Bali?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1452	I think it's important to remember the Storting about how complicated the Mongstad project is actually. There's simply no one who's done this before us. We're going to face technical challenges, and we're going to face economic challenges on many points in this project. We have to respect that this is complicated. Then my task is to give the Storting as safe a reason under the feet as possible in this project further, and I am now contributing to that. Our ambition is clearly to have the full scale plant up in 2014. And there's nothing about this that would prevent it. The government has announced that there has been an increase in the cost of this project for some time. I've been told I need to clear up the decision on how we're going to deal with this, in the government. This type of process will be well known to the representative Kvassheim for more than 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1460	I have to say I am surprised today when the government council Haga, who has appointed himself as climate minister, chooses an economic argument, not an environmental argument. The Council of State informs the Government today that the Government has joined the partnership’s investment decision-making programme and its progress plan – I think it’s a fairly correct quote from the Council of State’s presentation. My simple question is, When did the Government take this decision to join the partnership’s investment decision programme and its progress plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1467	The answer to the question is that we only talk about very few days since the government made that decision. The reason why I want to go public with this is simply that the partnership meets today, and then it is right that the Storting is informed about the matter. I think it's interesting to listen to the Christian People's Party in these matters, where they're very tall and dark. So these are the ones that helped us to have a gas power plant that stands on Melkøya and emits 1 million tons of CO2 per. years – and no plans for cleaning. 100000 tonnes are in any case a limited amount of CO2. I'm not getting rid of it. Therefore, we also choose to purchase allowances for these emissions. But let me remind you that we're talking about a period of a maximum of four–five – maybe just three – years. The Christian People's Party has helped a gas power plant to stand and brush without cleaning on Melkøya – all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1482	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1487	Our chief spokeswoman has thoroughly explained the Christian People's Party's fundamental view of the oil industry in the northern regions – and of the development of Skarv in particular. I would like to make just a few comments on the expectations of the Christian People's Party regarding the regional effects of increased oil activity in the north. And here it may be that we are «high and dark», as the Minister of Oil and Energy expressed in the change of lines. There have been very high expectations for the development of Skarv, and – in the name of justice – it is said that there will be a good deal of ring-effects. I see mentioned in the media new helicopter terminal in Brønnøysund, extension of the airport in Lake Sandness, new supply base with operational support unit, new hotel in Brønnøysund, oil-related investments for the rest, 600 years of development and 200 years of operation. And here it should also be possible for Northern Norwegian labour force to participate. Then it is especially gratifying that we have a line for well engineering at the Sandness Lake high school – a line that contributed to the rest of the Christian People's Party still being there and not being moved to Bodø. But we cannot be satisfied in the north as long as the entire operating organisation is not moved northwards. The Competence Environment related to Skarv should therefore remain in Stavanger. I noticed that the case rapporteur was reasonably satisfied with that, and emphasised that we would come back to this in connection with the oil notification. I wonder if it is possible to get back to this case, about Skarv. I'm going to doubt that when we give green light to the evolution we see here. The Stoltenberg II government has for a long time announced a North-Area bet that no one has previously seen the husband – as it was said. All state councils would contribute. So what do we experience? In the name of justice, I would say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs delivers – I have said that in cases before – but the other councils are almost absent. And here, at my discretion, the Minister of Oil and Energy has a golden opportunity to leave, by accepting that the heavy part of the operating organization, the competence, will remain in Stavanger. It is disappointing that the government party representatives in the hall accept this so easily, but I think it is in fact even more disappointing that the Right – with its armsman Ivar Kristiansen, who has been so high on the track in terms of oil activity in the north, and has strongly criticised, among other things. The Christian People's Party, which has a slightly more restrictive position, does not choose to take part in the proposals that exist. Finally, let me just stress that the Christian People's Party will share the same view in relation to the oil notification, that the operating organisation should follow in the case of new oil activity in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1506	Let me first just say to the representative Sahl that if it had been the whole starting point of the Storting, I'm pretty sure we hadn't had the matter of Skarv for treatment in Stortinget today. The matter had hardly been ready for it – and you wouldn't have come as far as you have today. I would rather have a case for treatment today that gives great ringing effects – rather than one bird in the hand than ten that wanders around on the roof. But we'll probably have an opportunity to come back to this a little bit. Originally, the representative of Thorkildsen made me ask for the floor. I was a little surprised at her approach, where she chose not to talk so much about Skarv – the matter we have to deal with today – but rather about the Right approach to the matter. She went quite strongly to attack on the Right. A little from the climate negotiations that are now in progress, I had to take the trouble to look at what distinguishes Right and SV in this case. I just see that we write the same thing in the setting, and we agree when we're going to press the green or red button today. I cannot see this as anything other than that the SV on this issue must be in charge of a policy that is in conflict with the Government's. And I can't say anything but that the post that Inga Marte Thorkildsen held from Stortinget's pulpit today – and when SV votes as they will today – had fit much better in the lawn. Finally, I record that the state council Haga today realizes the well-known term «attack is the best defense». I believe that, when we are dealing with issues that are so demanding, we need to find in – as the Council of State itself was involved – that there are questions about both processing and approximation. Then it does not have to refer to what a previous government did. No previous government has adopted CO2 emissions from Snow White of 1,1 million tonnes in two months – no one has responded. And with the approach we have to Mongstad, there's also no question of looking back. Any government council must find that the Storting raises critical questions about follow-up and convergence, and that the recommendations for decisions given to the Stortinge have a quality that makes us take reasonable and correct positions at all times. There's little evidence that we're there today. And when the Council of State says there's nothing to suggest that we won't achieve our goal in 2014, it's just the doubt that's starting to creep into information rounds like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1527	Let me start by commending BP for the work they have done with local politicians and local businesses in Helgeland with LOG Nord, projects and supplier seminars. They have made possible the participation of local businesses in the development of the Skarv and Idun fields in a very satisfactory way. There is obviously an exemplary piece of work that has been done. Building strong operating environments also means that people with petroleum competence are given jobs in relation to already established operating environments. In order to establish new operating environments, it is in any case dependent on employees with petroleum competence — geologists and others. – actually works in connection with the Norwegian Sea. It has been an objective to build strong operational environments in connection with the Norwegian Sea. I have not heard any of the representatives from the government parties, nor the government council, be clear as to whether it is still an objective to build strong operating environments in connection with the Norwegian Sea. If they don't have that goal anymore, it's okay if the population gets it clearly established. We know that there is significant digestion of the petroleum activity both in Mora, in Trøndelag and in North Norway. But this upturn depends on the fact that in these parts of the country you see that you get value creation associated with this business. I was a little surprised, like the representative of Kristiansen, when the representative of Thorkildsen made his statement, because I was on the verge of assuming that SV would vote against the whole thing today, but they do not. With regard to what Thorkildsen said about shadow games, BP has been rarely open, and the dialogue between BP and the ministry has been rarely open. If you had any interest in it, you would have known a good deal of the planned ways to drive Skarv, but also that the BP and the Ministry of Oil and Energy have had an intention to add the majority of the operating organisation to Stavanger. I guess you have for a long time. At least I've known that for a long time. No matter how you turn this around and turn it around, it's the Big Thing that decides. I miss a clarification on the future. I understand that if the representative Thorkildsen and SV get an impact on their petroleum policy, there will be no more operating organisations to place. Then the operating organisations will be located on Soria Moria, where they will create neither values nor jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1542	We have now completed the work on one issue – the resources were found in 1998, i.e. ten years ago – and now we are making the final decision in the Stortinget on the development of the field and on the operating organisation. What made me take the floor was to the extent that the first post to Holten Hemdal from the Christian People's Party. She was aware that there was now a completely new oil policy, and spoke in a way that led me to ask why there was no suggestion to vote against the whole Skarv development. There was a huge argument that nothing should be done about it, because there were so many uncertainties – there was a breach of Norwegian oil policy, etc. I must say that I am amazed that the Progress Party together with the Christian People's Party sets the conditions for the operation of Skarv to be placed north of the 62nd parallel. I follow some of the points of view, but it can't be that if you find smaller fields, whether it's south or north of the 62nd parallel, the whole organisation should move in relation to it. Economics and operation in the fields must also be taken into account. Many new fields — fortunately — will be discovered on the Norwegian pedestal in the future. We need to know how to organize them. That's what's used for Skarv expansion – to those degrees. More than 40 people will be established in the first round – in Brønnøysund, in Sandnessjøen, i.e. in the Helgeland area. They build up teaching activities, etc. That's how we have to move forward. With regard to the new fields, small and smaller ones, we also need to organise them in such a way that people are recruited, that they have stable environments and prospects in the environments that are there. It's obvious to everyone that we can't move large headquarters along the coast because of some kind of representative proposal from someone who comes from the areas from which you feel pressured. You have to see it in a whole. That's why it's so important to have totality when we're going to discuss the oil spill for next year. So finally, I want to say a little bit about -- I'm not hiding it -- a challenge we have, and that's the environmental aspect of the whole thing. I think the government has explained that thoroughly. But when we're going to supply the field with 80 MWh – 700 GWh – where are we going to take it from? No answer has been given. That's the big challenge for us. Here, the Government and the Council of State have joined forces with BP, which is making a great effort here, in order to assess this matter in the future – when we have more energy and more knowledge organized.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1555	It's always a little unfortunate to debate two things in the same case, as we are now in danger of doing here, by discussing both Skarv and Mongstad in one round. I'm going to focus on Mongstad. When we look at the problem that's up here, I think everyone thinks it's unfortunate. There are slightly different variations in how a person should act in relation to it. I think we should stick our finger in the ground and see what is realistic, what is reasonable resource, and then relate to it. So it is better that some people then have to go back on the promises they have made. I can live with that. But when one still looks at the totality of this – we had an interpellation debate in Stortinget a week and a half ago about the involvement of Norwegian industry in the CO2 clean-up projects – one sees, when one considers the list, that former Minister of Oil and Energy, Enoxen, was bomb-proof that the CO2 value chain on the Tjeldbergodden would be realised. It was his comment on NTB when this was the subject of public debate in February/March 2006. Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in the same context that he was reasonably sure that this would also be profitable for the companies to implement without state funding. Now we know that the project is iced up. One knows that Hammerfest Energi has a gas power plant project on Melkøya with CO2 cleaning from Sargas, but they have not received a concession from NVE. One knows that there are plans for coal-fired power plants at Husnes, but the CO2 treatment plant is from Sargas, with an estimated power price of about 30 øre per. kWh – but no signals from the Government. One knows that the government has spent half a billion dollars building two mobile gas power plants in central Norway without CO2 cleaning. One knows that the Government's plan for CO2 cleaning on Kårstø has been postponed for at least three years. One knows there's a postponement going on in Mongstad. I think it's going to be a postponement beyond 2014, but it's going to show time. One knows that Statkraft, a government-run company, is building two gas power plants in Germany without CO2 cleaning being a theme. One knows that there is a debate about Norwegian participation in the development of this, and even if the Government gives the impression that this is done by everyone trying, one also knows that there are some companies that express concern about whether they will reach the deadline, as long as the Government remains firm on it. Then the question is: are we going to run and deal with one project at a time, with postponements and without the possibility to see things in context, see costs in context, see technology development in context, or are we going to get an overall approach to it? I think the last thing should make sense. Then I challenge the Council of State to take the floor more than once in a debate in Stortinget – learn from the Council of State Geske – and answer a challenge about whether the Government will present a big message or an action plan, for that matter, where a sees CO2 policy in relation to the power generation as a whole, to look at all projects again, in order to establish some principles, so that others, like to have a power project, know what general framework conditions are leading, and must not wait until the concession request is sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1594	The councils spoke almost more about the Melkøya plant than about Mongstad, which was the theme of her presentation. In addition, when she makes a false representation of what was the political craft that led to the Melkøya plant, it may give rise to some comments. It is well known that this plant was not just driven forward, but that a tailor-made tax regime was set up for it to be realised. And the people who got it were primarily the Workers' Party. Without that effort, the installation had not been realised. When the Bondevik II administration took over, this matter was, in fact, decided. The concession terms say that land should be set aside at the Melkøya plant that can be used for sewage treatment plants, and if the Council of State is so concerned about the emissions on Melkøya – she should be – she can grasp this area dedicated to sewage treatment plants and help it to be used for cleaning. What we need in the climate debate is less history and more political action. There is reason to ask where SV is today, in the light of the information given. Because it is obvious that the gas power policy of the Government has first and foremost measures to keep SV on board. When the Soria Moria statement was presented, Kristin Halvorsen said that the gas power struggle was over; one was to be cleaned at Kårstø in 2009. It is a breach of promises, when one now states that it will come in 2012 at the earliest. Similarly, at Mongstad, one of the crown arguments for the plant and for the investment there was that part of these emissions were to be cleaned from day one. Kristin Halvorsen was among the most obvious and enthusiastic about it. I am calling for some considerations from SV around what has happened today, because it seems more and more clear that this is tailor-made to keep them on board, not a quality-assured year as a job-seeker's target-conscious to reach. Then I want to repeat a fairly fundamental question, which the Council of State did not respond to in the change of line, namely whether what is happening now is in accordance with the terms of the concession, and how that side of the case will be dealt with. What we are now seeing is, unfortunately, what is the Prime Minister's approach to climate policy: 'Business as usual' at home, with increased emissions, and then a trading quota abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1612	Back to Skarv. This is a great day for Helgeland and Nordland. Power provides many jobs in a region that really needs it, while creating cooperation with the company BP as an operator to facilitate training appropriate to this industry. It is thought both in Lake Sandness, in Lake Mo in Rana. This is how I believe we need to think in connection with future petroleum activities on Norwegian base. Then it becomes difficult for me to get completely locked to established bases and operating organisations. Those we have must be good, but as I see it, it's StatoilHydro as per. Today, several fully-fledged operations organisations can operate along our coast. It is likely that smaller companies will have to consider flexibility and costs when assuming operator responsibilities. The representative Sahl wonders if I give green light because most of it is left in Stavanger. I think it's important to get as much as we can, instead of nothing. That is the issue today. If we should have trodden through what was going on with the operating organisation, we probably would not have had the Skarv case in Stortinget today. Scurvy is a marginal expansion. I look forward to discussing this when the petroleum message has been submitted. We have asked the Government to add up as a major matter in the kerosene message coming next year. It has to do with the future diversity of the socket. I want everything we can get, not least up to the north. But the future new petroleum activity and its existence are likely to be different from that of the petroleum industry today. It won't be easier and cheaper to drive in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1623	There is no reason to wait with any particular degree of stress on the petroleum message. Now both the representative Nordtun and the representative Pedersen, both from the Workers' Party, have clearly established what it is like. There is no longer a majority wish in this room to build strong operating environments north of Dovre. It is very commendable that the two representatives make this clear. It may be okay if the Council of State also confirms that this is the case. I just want to underline some things. The representative Pedersen says that only Statoil can have more than one operating environment. As far as I know, Shell already has it. The new expansions in the Norwegian Sea shall not be carried out by StatoilHydro. Then we know what's going on in relation to that. The proposal we are making today, together with the Christian People's Party, concerns Skarv. We look forward to a debate on developments in the Norwegian Sea. I'm confused and probably no longer know if Skarv is a big or a small find, because the Council of State says it's one of the biggest expansions in the Norwegian Sea in the future, while Pedersen says it's a insignificant and little find. I'm getting a little insecure. However, the profitability of the development of Skarv would not have been significantly impaired by the creation of – not moving 40 jobs, for which the Workers' Party has been involved on several occasions in other contexts, but established – 40 new jobs would be located elsewhere than you had thought. I think we can agree on that. In relation to this with the time aspect, it is today the Storting has this matter to deal with. It is today the Storting can say its opinion on this. There is a lot of Norwegian petroleum policy issues that are clearly determined by the Stortinget. That the Workers' Party and the Center Party choose to vote in order to set up these jobs in Stavanger, they are on their account, but it is today the Stortinget is invited to decide on this matter, and some of us have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1637	State Council Åslaug Haga said in his article that there are no shortcuts to electrification. We fully agree on that. But we have to start, and the Christian People's Party and the Left show a little more impatience than what the Government does. In his statement, the Council of State also said that the Government has ambitious objectives, but then you have to ask yourself if you have taken any shortcuts. We can only go back for a week. We were then informed that the Norwegian position in relation to Bali was that we would put CO2 handling, capture and storage in place in the next period. That was one of the Norwegian positions. The question is, when we see what is happening at home, if you have taken a small shortcut to get a good point that sells well in a new year's speech, and that sells well in tabloid newspapers. For me, it's a little crucial to listen to Haga's answers in the line change. She says she's known about this for some time, that this will have increased financial consequences. She says in the answer to me that there are very few days this is about. From our side, I ask that the Council of State clarify what she puts in these two statements, because it will be important for the Christian People's Party to deal with the matter further. Tore Nordtun made me a little visit in his post. He thought I made a statement that argued that the Christian People's Party and I would not vote in favour of the matter. If the representative Nordtun had heard of it, I said, ‘When the Christian People’s Party elects to vote in favour of this expansion, it is mainly because pre-investments have been made in the field of the order of DKK 4 billion; [[...]] There was something the Council of State also commented on in its statement. Further: ‘because we see great opportunities to put in place a solution with electrification in the relatively short term.’ [[...]] That is why we choose to vote in favour of this matter. I have to ask questions about the representative Nordtun remembers what is in the Soria Moria Declaration, a document that that representative should know better than I do. It states that the agreed pattern of operating and base structures in the oil sector should be firm and actively used in the context of new developments on Norwegian soil. I guess it's right today to ask if the Government is following the Soria Moria statement about an active use of the base structure that already exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1668	I will answer some of the questions and comments that have come. First, to the representative Solvik-Olsen, who wants a more comprehensive review of the CO2 policy, as I understand him. I focus on gradually briefing the Storting on the development of these major projects, which I believe the representative will acknowledge that I have done in the few months I have been sitting as the Council of State. I have also said in the case of both Kårstø and Mongstad that we should come back to the economic aspects of these projects in the revised national budget. In any case, it gives us an opportunity to discuss these projects more fully. I am shipping in Stortinget at the exact time the Stortinget had to want me here. I don't think it would be wise for us to facilitate large-scale messages – which it takes a long time to produce – in this field, because progress is moving so fast. We have to add up to a form that we can communicate in that is sufficiently flexible, and that reflects the dynamics that are actually in this field now. To the representative of Kvassheim, who may not be in the room anymore, but who asks if what I have notified today is in accordance with the terms of the concession given to StatoilHydro: It is not right to understand what is involved, but what is clear in any case is that StatoilHydro must have an amended emission permit. That's exactly why I said we should buy allowances for the amount of CO2 that comes out of the atmosphere. In practice, this will be double allowances, because first the CHP plant buys allowances, and then we buy allowances. But then this is about the seventh and last question about whether it's worth spending $3 billion on a ship's solution to deposit 100,000 tonnes of CO2. The government then believes, as you understand, that there will be no wise use of money. So to the representative Holten Hemdal in terms of electrification: Well, we – the Ministry of Oil and Energy – are presented with a report on electrification on 4 January. I look forward to reporting to Stortinget regarding it, and getting a broad discussion about how to attack electrification in the future. Then to questions about the deadlines: I have said that there are very few days since the government dealt with this matter. That is correct, as I said in the reply to the representative Holten Hemdal earlier. The ministry has been familiar with these numbers in-- I don't dare say if it's two or three weeks. It is now the case that a department needs to deal with the reports it receives — in this case from Gassco — and the matter is going through in government. I think all those who have been in government offices will understand that you need some time, both to go through reports and to figure out how to pair your legs, then to clarify how to deal with the matter in terms of government and size.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1690	First to Gunnar Kvassheim, who asked where SV stands in this case today. Well, we're safe on board. We're part of this government, and we're going to continue to be. None of the parties here in Stortinget think this is any right situation, but we take, like everyone else, to note the decision that has been made. We are also committed to ensuring that the full-scale propulsion system continues to progress, and so does it. There should be no doubt that the Government will keep a full press on this matter. On the SV side, we also see that it is violent to spend 3 billion kroner for a maximum of five years of operation. However, we would stress that the capture and storage of CO2 will be an expensive affair, and the government has shown that it is willing to pay for that affair, but the money must be spent in a reasonable way too. At the same time, I would like to say that we want to go into all aspects of the case, in order to clarify the parts that we have not had the opportunity and time to get involved in the matter. To the representative Tord Lien, as I also said in my main post, it is positive that BP has facilitated the whole process system being electrified. It will in future provide opportunities to replace the gas turbines. We are also pleased that the lawyers in Skarv are required to implement a programme to facilitate the transfer of large quantities of power to production ships. This is something that the Government is going to follow closely up. Finally a little visit to Ivar Kristiansen, who had a sharper tone back than I had in and by myself had to him. I really take that as a sign that I met him on a sore point. I believe that the Right speaks with two tongues in climate sacs. Outside, the party appears to have seen the light, that they have really begun to be a leading party in climate. But if we go in and look at e.g. oil policy – and in particular the history of the Right, the close history, and part of the comments that are in relation to the State budgets – it is quite clear that it would have built some gas power plants without CO2 cleaning if it had been up to the Right, and that electrification is not so important for the party anyway. For example: Snow White, it's like, as the state council Haga said, this is a gas power plant that emits 1 million tonnes of CO2 per. years, something that the representative Ivar Kristiansen seemed to worry about, when he had a line in place. Nor can I see that the left can completely disclaim this responsibility, sail if they are trying to get it done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1708	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1711	First, I think it's a little strange to have such a debate between Right and Left, which in this case runs exactly the same policy, but which both – especially SV – are trying to dissociate themselves from the content. Enough about that. I want to go back to the Council of State, and to have a big message take too much time. Okay, I don't require a big message. Please submit a plan of measures! It should take less time to put forward. Or do as State Council Enoxen and put forward a big message on four pages, as he did in the case of renewable energy. It shouldn't take too long to prepare. The point here is not necessarily just Kårstø and Mongstad. The point is to have a predictable policy, so that all actors who could plan to build a gas plant, a coal plant or something else that emits CO2 would know in advance what kind of policy they have to deal with. Then we wouldn't get such a case to a case policy, where the government is very ambitious, but then we still get postponements, as we have experienced on all of the projects that the government is doing. It is particularly important, since the Council of State itself has said that new gas power plants should also have CO2 cleaning at start-up in central Norway. The challenge is huge!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1726	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1729	In this case, the Government’s recommendations relating to Skarv development were addressed to the right. Even today, the Council of State has made it clear on the issue of electrification that there are no technological solutions needed to do so. We're dealing with that. The strange thing about today's debate is that SV strongly argues against this, but chooses to vote in favour. So the representative of Thorkildsen says that the right does not take it so carefully with electrification. Well, let's do it! We work every day in the United Kingdom to put in place solutions for new renewable energy in Norway that are better than Europe's second worst. So if we were to listen to SV in these questions, we would just electrify the socket and make ourselves even more dependent on imports of energy, even more dependent on imports of coal power, the most polluting energy available. It's a policy that the Right warns against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1738	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1612]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1754	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1612]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1770	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1779	In Document No: 8:9 would like to have a separate case for Stortinget, where the intention is to increase local power generation, so as to reduce the need for large-scale high-voltage power lines and also to provide alternative solutions with cables and sea cables in particularly vulnerable areas. The Committee shares the opinion of the proposers that the transmission of large high-voltage lines may lead to conflict, both in terms of the environment, aesthetics and visual expression. It's probably that it can't just, but actually leads to conflict with such line running. This is why work is already under way on the part of the Council of State, the aim of which is to reduce the level of conflict in that area. This was notified in a letter from the Council of State to the Committee on 26 November. I would like to add that this is a very important strategy, which will balance many more issues than the proposers initially point to. The majority of the Committee therefore welcomes the presentation of the work currently being done to the European Parliament for consideration. The proposal has a main problem, and it is that the proposal provides a very risky confirmation of the desire to increase local power generation, thus preventing the need for the development of high voltage lines. Firstly, in order to problem a little around this, security of supply may depend on improved transfer capacity between different regions in the country and abroad. Secondly, it is not entirely unproblematic that line capacity needs to be expanded in order to reinvigorate the market. In too many examples, new generation of power is prevented due to the lack of line capacity. Thirdly, line capacity is therefore essential in relation to flexibility in terms of the exploitation of both existing and new power generation, while also being linked to a consumer variable. The conclusion is therefore, in my opinion, that the intention of the proposers is difficult to implement, although we could well imagine a technology that ensured the transmission of large amounts of power wirelessly. But we're not there right now, and we have to take that into account. A fourth element is probably the reality that new power generation will also have a significant impact on nature. New renewable energy, with the exception of bioenergy, is of such a nature that it will not be entirely insignificant, nor without discussion. In this context, the rhetoric of natural intervention will probably be chosen by both those who were against the development of e.g. windmills, and those that were against the development of power lines. Who is wrong, and who is right in such a question, is a difficult issue, with which the Council of State and the Government are now working. However, security of supply is primarily critical in the context of line capacity and line quality, but of course it is also about production capacity and consumption. That in some very special cases you could think of a reduction in the need for new power lines by building up new power lines, I'm not going to reject. Hopefully we'll set up a scheme of green certificates and trigger new power generation to a greater extent than we've seen up to today. That particular issue will be relevant. Then I think it's absolutely crucial to succeed that one actually has enough line capacity, which, of course, the proposal really wants to limit. The last issue I want to present as a problem area in relation to the proposal's intentions and objectives is that one will then limit the market's ability to function. If one does not have sufficient infrastructure in Norway, a limited amount of power will be available, with the result that the price variations will be quite large, and I also think, in part, dramatic, if one does not ensure that new power generation is followed up with increased transmission capacity. On this basis, the majority cannot join the proposal presented in Document No. 8:9 for 2007-2008. The majority therefore insists that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. I hope that through this debate, an overall increase can in fact recognise the issues raised in the proposal and support the majority voting that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1807	I will begin by saying that from around 1950 until 1990 Norway was probably leading the world's most active power policy. In the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, very few other countries were building up as much new hydropower as Norway. Even today, Norway is the sixth largest producer of renewable hydropower in the world. Even when Norway, as the first country in Europe in 1990, decided to deregulate the power market, Norway headed an international and paved the way for the new energy policy based on liberalisation and the market. The extensive deregulation of the Norwegian power sector in 1990 was and remains correct, in my view, but the deregulation of the power sector has had a very significant weakness, namely the lack of new capacity. Lack of power development since the deregulation in 1990 in Norway has many different explanations, which it takes too long to address here now, but the Progress Party has consistently addressed a more active force policy over the last 10–15 years. The Progress Party has always pointed out the need for new power development in Norway, but unfortunately without hearing from the other parties on the Stortinget for this view. The absence of an active power policy following deregulation in 1990 has resulted in an increasing imbalance between power consumption and power generation. This has provided a tighter force balance and a significant decrease in security of supply. The result of 10–15 years of slumbering Norwegian power policy is clear today, for today Norway is no longer self-sufficient in electricity even in a so-called normal year of rainfall, but it has become completely dependent on importing electricity from abroad. It is also true that in all seven of the last 11 years Norway has been a net importer of electricity from Danish and Swedish coal and nuclear power plants. The Norwegian electricity consumption has increased by a total of 20 TWh over the 15-year period from 1990 to 2005, from approx. 106 TWh in 1990 to 126 TWh in 2005, while the expansion of new capacity has only been around 4–5 TWh in the same period. If the power expansion kept pace with the increase in power consumption, we had to expand around 30 new Alta power plants over the last 15 years, so we have only expanded capacity corresponding to seven-eight Alta power plants. The Norwegian power deficit is also becoming more difficult to deal with because power consumption has increased differently in the regions. As a result, the importance of the central network has become increasingly important for electricity flows from regions with a surplus of power to regions with a deficit. The Progress Party believes it is important to have a very well-developed central network, regional network and local electricity distribution network in Norway, but purely systemically – and that is much of the point of the proposal here – there is a clear advantage of the best regional energy balance, in order to avoid unnecessary large volumes of transport of electricity over long distances between regions. Today security of supply for electrical energy is a very critical infrastructure in our modern society. Modern society has become very vulnerable to even short periods of power outages. At the same time, current disruption tolerance has also become very low today, both in business and in private households. Finally, the Progress Party will say that it is unfortunate that Norway, as one of the world’s largest energy nations, may remain dependent on being a permanent importer of nuclear and coal power for the future. This is why the Progress Party wants a new Norwegian power policy that allows new hydropower expansion in Norway on a scale that not only makes the country self-sufficient in a normal year but is also robust enough to deal with years of low rainfall. I would like to take up with this the proposal to which the Group of the European People's Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1829	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1832	Today's debate on power lines versus wiring challenges us on conventional solutions in the energy sector, which dates from a time when electricity supply in general was a very forward-looking good and power lines were of course part of this picture. It symbolizes growth and prosperity and not least workplaces. Out in District Norway, where the power was created, the power lines were accepted by the population, because it led to visible wealth development. Today, the situation is different. Fuel lines are planned through vulnerable areas to give economic growth far away. Like everything else in our time, the perception of valuable landscape spaces is changing, which can mean growth in a growing tourism industry that gives more positive local impact. Norway — and in particular the West — has some of the most beautiful natural areas in the world. Every year hundreds of thousands of tourists come here to admire our fjords and mountains. Two areas, Nærøyfjorden and Geirangerfjorden, are both included in the UN exclusive World Heritage List. So Norway’s fjord landscape has both national and international interest. This gives special responsibility for how we manage this natural heritage. The plans for the extensive deployment of the power grid in order to ensure the power supply around Bergen and in central Norway have therefore encountered massive resistance from tourist industries, the local population, outdoor operators, cabin owners and nature conservation. We have to take this resistance seriously. It is therefore important to strike a reasonable balance between the need to secure the power supply and the need to safeguard our unique natural heritage. Important weighings are trasé choices, earth cable or seabed over high-spent masts on the top of the ground. However, the choice of location of power generation that may limit the need for power transmission is also an important part of the picture. It may also be that the large community has to pay a little more for power transmission, perhaps through beautiful and vulnerable areas in order to take care of this natural heritage. When looking at the total cost of a project, it is important to include the costs in relation to the environment and nature. It is clear from the comments that there is a broad consensus that Storting must discuss different strategies to reconcile the need for a secure power supply with taking care of these natural values. I feel that there is broad support for the intentions behind the Right proposal to ask the Government not later in the spring 2008 session to promote the cause of the Storting. In fact, the very proposal for a representative will not have a majority, since the parties to the government will not vote for it, but I nevertheless feel that, through these comments, it is a unanimous support for the intention behind the proposal. If I am wrong here, I expect representatives of the government parties or the state council to say clearly from today's debate. There are many, including in the government parties outside the country, who expect clear speech. The Minister of Oil and Energy wrote to the Committee that the Department is working on a strategy for taking greater account of the environment, aesthetics and local communities when strengthening the power grid is planned. It is very pleased, and we look forward to the Council of State coming back to Stortinget with one thing. The problematisation that the rapporteur raised, it seems to me that I belong in the debate we are having at the time. In the right we will point to the potential for local or regional power generation. The need for power lines between different parts of the country could be significantly reduced if several local power generation projects had been realised. Examples of such projects are: Industriekraft Møres plans to be a gas power plant at Hustad MarbleStatoilHydro's planned gas power plant on Tjeldbergodden, which has been granted a concession but where they do not have an emission permitBKK's plans for a new gas power plant on Mongstad And this is all the small and large renewable energy projects, either water or wind power, that have not yet been realised because of inadequate support schemes or simply heavy public procedures. The state network itself points out that increased local production is better than resolving the supply situation only by increasing the transmission of power from other parts of the country. A strategy for a secure power supply for all parts of the country must therefore also address how we facilitate meeting our energy needs through increased power generation. Take Right’s call for the development of a new regime that sees more widely the economy of society and the cost-benefit of all actors. It is high time for a renewal, and we look forward to the Stortinget contributing to this through a big message on the topic as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1872	In SV, we are pleased that a strategy has been launched to take greater account of the environment, aesthetics and local communities in the construction of large high-voltage lines. I recently came from the Health and Care Committee, where I sat as a member for two years. There was also an important issue related to the health perspective of high-spent lines, because few would live just below a high-spent line. I would also like to draw up a perspective in addition to all these, namely the vulnerability perspective. In a chronicle in the Official Journal of Bergen by Tor Håkon Inderberg and Per Ove Eikeland, who are researchers at the Fridtjof Nansen Institute, they point out that the vulnerability associated with future climate change must be included in the debate on wiring. Climate scenarios developed for Norway indicate that we will have a wilder, wetter and warmer climate. This will lead to increased loads on air lines, with a risk of long-lasting power outages, as we have seen examples in several places. Researchers point out that climate scenarios indicate an increasing frequency of events that could affect the air lines – air line iceling as a result of the combination of increased rainfall and temperature rise, blow-down lines as a result of increased wind strength and direction, woodfall and erosion. This will involve large costs, which must also be included in these accounts. It is important to improve security of supply, and this is what the Government is doing. This is also important to mitigate the level of conflict in future line development concession cases. In recent decades, there has been too little investment in a good and secure transmission system in Norway. We have to get up the investment level in the web. This gives us challenges such as: is expressed in large-scale popular mobilisations. People are happy in pristine nature, and they are concerned about securing values that it is not immediately possible to set a price tag on. That's good. In addition, they are concerned with e.g.: the potential for green travel, which is an industry of growth, and which we need to rebuild. Finally, I would like to point out that cables will not always be the most environmentally friendly option. Cableing may also have environmental consequences, but where cableing is the most environmentally friendly option after a diet-useful consideration, it is the SV’s opinion that this should happen. I think that will happen to a greater extent than has been the case so far in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1887	Norway faces major challenges in the years to come to address an increasing power deficit in some parts of the country. Especially in central Norway and in the Bergens region, power production is less than needed. The main reason for this is increased activity in offshore and coastal industries, but it is also due to an increasing electricity consumption in households. A small amount of power demands increased local power generation and increased transmission system expansion, raising a number of issues, which were also raised by the case-rapporteur. However, the Christian People's Party is pleased to address these issues in the present proposal for a representative. After many years of little or no deployment of the power grid, there is a need to increase the capacity for transmission of power between national units. Statnett plans several major expansion projects in the coming years. Projects are necessary to improve security of supply, but several of the projects create major conflicts with the local population due to the major natural interventions they will lead to. Air voltage power cables are planned to be developed in several unique areas with large natural and environmental values, including: along the Hardangerfjord, the Setesdal and the Sunnmørsalpene. The planned powerline through Hardanger will lead to major natural interventions in Eidfjord, Ulvik, Granvin, Kvam and Samnanger. The population in this area has been strongly opposed to the plans in the form of the ‘Stop Power Line’ public reaction. There has also been great public opposition to the planned pipeline between Ørskog municipality on Sunnmøre and Fardal in Sogn. The power line is planned near Geirangerfjord, which, together with Nærøjorden, was included in the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2005. The construction of a power line in the area may, in the worst case, cause Geiranger to lose its seat on the world heritage list. In Setesdal there is also great popular resistance to a planned power line in the air voltage from Skåreheia in Birkene municipality to Holen power station in Bykle municipality. The track is probably 100 km long. Local politicians believe that the wild rain will be damaged, and that great natural glory will be lost if Statnett is allowed to provide a gigantic 420 kV high-spent line along the Setesdal landscape protection area. The alternative to the planned air voltage power lines in these cases is earth cable or sea cable. The Christian People's Party wants a change in today's policy, so that the environment is given greater weight when cable options are chosen. Soil and sea cables need to be selected more when this can reduce the load on the natural environment in relation to lines carried in air voltage, even if this leads to increased costs. With the large number of controversial powerline projects we are witnessing, it is high time that the Stortinget had a debate again on the development of the power grid in this country. However, a lack of power cannot be resolved solely through increased deployment of the transmission system. We also have to increase power generation locally. Until today, Norway has been almost self-sufficient in clean electricity through large-scale investment in hydropower, but we know that Jens Stoltenberg has announced that the epoch for the large hydropower expansions is over, something for which the Christian People's Party is pleased. That is why in the future we need to focus on increasing power generation from other renewable energy sources. Norway has a huge potential for renewable energy. We have to use this. That's why it's important to put in place green certificates, but it's also important that we put in place a temporary scheme before the green certificates are in the box, if we were to get a negotiating result with the Swedes who want to. Finally, I would like to stress that we have a great potential for energy saving in Norway. We use much more power than other countries that we can compare with. The nature protection association has submitted a report showing that Norway will be able to release 10 pst. of energy consumption by reducing consumption. There's a big job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1910	The development of power lines, which is an important part of this proposal for a representative, affects three key areas of the Centre Party: security of supply, environmental and nature protection and local communities. That is why we believe that it is igniting a thorough and good handling. In the Center Party, we are busy having a secure power supply throughout the country. We are concerned that citizens and industry should have sufficient power and that the production of renewable energy should increase. A better exchange of power between different parts of the country is necessary in this context. Many of this challenge has already been addressed by the Government: the energy conversion initiative through Enova is almost double compared to last year, the base fund is strengthened, the investment in renewable energy sources is under way, the planning of a new line network is also under way, and the negotiations with the Swedes on green certificates have been resumed. A well-developed network of lines is necessary for the realisation of several renewable energy production projects. It is important and necessary in order to have sufficient flexibility and security of supply throughout the country, but we need to see this need in relation to nature considerations, because major interference in nature is not only a challenge for travel life, as previously mentioned here, but also for the communities that get these interventions closely involved. Both subterranean cables, seabed cables and high-spent mast power lines lead to natural interference. Traces must be built as gently as possible, and the choice of lanes must take care of both nature and aesthetics. Cables need to be reconsidered in individual cases, and it is worth reminding the most intense cabling enthusiasts that the option of land cabling is often one of the most lasting natural interventions. Then there are some regions and communities that are left with the disadvantages more than others in order for the rest of the country to benefit from a well-developed transmission system. Saka has – and for good reason – created considerable local involvement, and the Council of State has warned that it considers whether arrangements should be made to compensate for the disadvantages. The centre party believes that this, with cables on some sections, the removal of existing lines, and remedial action in the lines, must be central when this expansion takes place. In the Central Party, we are pleased that we are getting new opportunities to discuss these issues when the Government presents the matter to the Storting in its own way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1923	The proposal that we are discussing today addresses important issues, the issue of local energy production and the construction of power lines, which have been discussed in the Storting on several occasions. I am uncertain as to whether the treatment that ends with today's debate has brought forward something new, or whether it is a matter where we are dealing with ongoing disputes. We'll have to wait and see what are the realities. In any case, however, it appears clearer and clearer that Norway is a slowdown in the development of renewable energy, and has not made any use of the potential available. This is due to a poor support system. That is the result of a selected Green Certificate Cooperation with Sweden. It is good that one has now again entered into negotiations on this with a view to establishing such a system. It is obvious that greater local power generation would reduce and affect the need for transmission lines. However, new lines will be needed, and there is a need for a debate on the importance to be given to selecting the lines for these cable projects. The left is quite clear that environmental considerations must be given greater weight than in the past, and that in some cases decisive emphasis must be placed on a choice of solutions other than what one would like to do with today's guidelines. We believe that the route from Sima to Samnanger in Hardanger is an example of a route where it would be so conflictable to drive power lines along the fjord that the option of sea cable should be chosen. It is urgent to put in place a new policy in this area, and the Stortinget should have been presented with a case during the spring when the Government presented its view. The government has announced an adjusted strategy with increased emphasis on the environment when building power lines, and it remains to be seen whether this new strategy will also be a new practical policy. We might get an answer to that when a decision is to be made about trasé elections along or in Hardangerfjorden. I note that in various contexts, the Council of State has announced a possible compensation scheme for municipalities affected by the development of lines that are causing major disadvantages, i.e. that one sees that one has to pay for the disadvantages that trajectory and line running represent. I will not rule out such a compensation scheme being a proper and important instrument that can be used in any context. But I hope that's not what will be the practical outcome of the new strategy that the Government says one will come up with. There are sections where the disadvantages are so great by passing force lines in the air that one cannot compensate for them. I hope the Stortinget will soon get a clarification of the government's policy here, and that we will have a new strategy that will also provide a new policy that will allow sea cable and earth cable to be selected to a greater extent than so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1937	Document No The 8-proposal that we are dealing with addresses important issues. Having a secure and good power grid in all parts of the country is an important societal task. There is a need to build new power lines and upgrade older people after a few years of low activity in network investments. In the central network development plan, Statnett plans investments for the next ten years amounting to approximately DKK 16 billion. This will involve a high level of planning and investment activity in all parts of the country. One of the major challenges facing the power system in the years ahead is related to the growth of electricity consumption in the petroleum industry. Supplying power to the petroleum sector from land is positive in the climate context, but increases the pressure of the power system. The large increases in consumption that have been, and are expected to be in the future, are largely targeted at a few areas where neither the network nor production capacity are initially dimensioned for large consumption increases in a short time. The lack of transmission capacity has increased the vulnerability to precipitation failures, while the dependence of society on electricity has also increased. We just can't have it like that in the future. Large regional increases in consumption can be covered by increased production, energy efficiency or investments in networks and thus imports from other areas. Very often, the best solution for the power system and society will be a combination of these measures. Senses of increased local production in some cases may reduce the need for new power lines are not always so. In several regions, the situation is now that grid capacity is a restriction on the development of new production. Production companies in Norway are not entrusted with the same responsibility for promoting socio-economic operations and development as the State network is for the central network. Despite the efforts of the Government to promote increased energy production, we still have a coordination challenge between network and production developments. This was highlighted by several groups working on the evaluation of the Energy Act and is a topic on which the Ministry of Oil and Energy will continue to work in the near future. An action already under way is for the NVE to strengthen its coordination and concessional treatment of network and production projects. This can be achieved, for example, by: expressions in public meetings around the country discussing different aspects of this issue, which will be met with enthusiasm around it. As you know, the government has an ambitious target of 30 TWh new renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement by 2016. That's why we're strengthening Enova to the degrees we're now doing. Enova will probably have $1.4 billion at its disposal in 2008. We also strengthen the process capacity of the NVE. They focus in particular on the most vulnerable areas, such as Middle Norway. In autumn 2006, the government promoted proposals for a separate renewable electricity support scheme. It is now being treated in ESA. We hope to have a quick approval. Otherwise, as many in this Chamber have already pointed out, there are new conversations going on with the Swedes about green certificates. We look forward to continuing discussions with the Swedes, and hope that we will achieve this objective. As I have already mentioned, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has several major investigations in progress which are clearly related to the issues mentioned by the representatives in Document No. The 8th proposal. Firstly, the government has asked the government to provide a broad assessment of the incentives for increased environmentally friendly deployment of hydropower and other renewable energy in the context of the revised 2008 national budget. We're supposed to follow that up. I have previously announced that I will inform the Storting appropriately about the strategy for increased consideration of environmental aesthetics and communities in the planning of power lines when it is completed. This strategy includes, inter alia: increased focus on reducing the overall burden on regions caused by electricity lines and reinforced efforts in investigations into remedial measures. Furthermore, as there may be a significant distortion of benefits and disadvantages between different regions and local communities in the construction of power lines, I also consider whether a mechanism should be put in place to compensate municipalities that are significantly negatively affected by the development of large power lines. This may require a change in the Energy Act and may – if I promote it – be submitted to Stortinget as a matter of its own. In the future, as we know, we will also go through the Energy Act, and we will come back to many aspects of networks and production in this context. In other words, the size has a number of opportunities to take the debate forward, and I look forward to these important discussions relating both to the network and to increased production as well as the relationship between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1960	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1963	It is true that Norway is in a deficit situation with regard to electrical energy. Most years we're net importers. It's mainly nuclear energy and electricity produced at coal-fired power plants, which we don't want in Norway. So here in Norway, we still have an unused potential in terms of hydropower, which could be 20, 30, maybe 40 TWh. Would it not be better if the government started a process so that we could use some of the remaining hydropower potential that still exists in Norway, so that Norway became independent of almost every year to import coal power and nuclear power — that is, polluting power — from Sweden and Denmark in preference? The Council of State should have an opinion if it is not a good proposal. The progress party thinks it's the way to go. What does the Government think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1970	Representative Andersen is quite right that we have challenges in power supply in Norway. It is important to address that challenge from a number of perspectives. It is a fact that we are wasting energy in Norway. We definitely need to work more with energy efficiency, and the potential is high with relatively simple instruments. Then we're dependent on increasing production, and that's where we work with different strategies. Gas power with CO2 handling is one of them. Then there's a big challenge in getting more renewable energy up. There we hope that the green certificates will help us with that, unless we have to have an improved electricity support system. In this context, the development of small power is important. Otherwise, on the hydropower side, I think the most we can pick up is related to upgrading existing works. The time of the large hydroelectric build-up is over, as we know.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1980	I have followed this matter carefully over a longer period of time. I think I dare say that it got renewed attention after a meeting in Hardanger that focused on the new, shattering powerline between Sima and Samnanger. At that meeting we promised in the Right to raise the debate in Stortinget through an interpellation and later through today's proposal for a representative. The previous central party council was, to say the least, not willing to do something particularly concrete in the matter. I'm recording another tone from the current Council of State, and that's what we see in the Right is very good. But I want to hear from the Council of State even though we can expect a new policy in the field when she brings a matter to Stortinget. And with all due respect, economic compensation for ruined nature is, in our opinion, not enough new policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1987	This is a matter that concerns me. I am looking for friends in Stortinget in this area too – I have them in government from before. I was late in Sogn and Fjordane on Thursday, not least to look at how we're going to deal with the management challenges there. I'm going to Hardanger to follow up the specific issues in that area. There has been a lot of focus on possible remedial measures, such as compensation. through food funds, where there is no avoiding the extension of pipelines — where the big community needs to have consequences for small communities. Let me stress that that's the last answer we have. We're going to look for good solutions before we get there that we have to end up with nutrition funds as compensation. I'm going into this with maximum creativity, and I want a discussion about it. I also feel that we have a device, among other things. in the NVE that is willing to take these challenges with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e1998	Like the representative Halleraker, I record that the new oil and energy minister has a different tone than his predecessor in these questions when she meets the Stortinget. I'd like to know if that means there's going to be another policy, but I'm going to interpret the commitment that's being shown, like, it does. Then I also hope that the compensation will be one of the tools and not a main track. With the announcement of a new policy that may have consequences for the line-up that may be controversial, I would like to hear if the Council of State can assure that no decision will be taken on these controversial projects until there is a clarification of the Government's policy, so that it can remain at the bottom of the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2005	We have a number of demanding issues that will be clarified if not too long. Here, there are controversies around all of the lines. That means that the complaints to the seventh and last come to my desk. I am, and I can assure the representative, Mr Kvassheim, that we are going to bring forward the new policy before we make important decisions on these major, controversial issues that we know are coming. I look forward to a broad and good discussion in Stortinget and hope that I can provide a discussion basis as quickly as possible during the first six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2012	The cord shift is therefore over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2017	I have to say that I am well pleased that there is an overall energy and environmental committee that in the setting joins the intention of this important proposal from the Right. It is positive that government parties also take into account that large high-voltage lines will cause significant conflicts with the environment, aesthetics and visual expressions. When the Committee concludes that the Stortinget must be given the opportunity to debate various strategies for power generation, a far-right impact on this issue has been achieved. This is an important signal. I also note that the Committee unanimously believes that today's policy on wiring is restrictive and believes that it is time for the Stortinget to resume a debate on the development of the power grid. The Government Parties conclude that the Government will present an appropriate case in this respect. This matter should be brought in good time, as the representative of Kvassheim was involved, before the appeals in the projects referred to in the draft representative are dealt with by the Government. Something else would be a quite clear breach of the intentions that I experience lies within the committee in this position. The right is under the responsibility of the administrator, and caring for the valuable nature of future generations is a fundamental, conservative value. There is little doubt that our unique landscape, for example. in Hardanger, not only is valuable in itself, it also has a clear economic value, especially for the tourism industry. The Minister of Industry today presented a travel strategy. If the Government is to have credibility in this area, it must be able to see that the debate that we have here in the Chamber today is also important for the tourism industry. I would also like to say that it is a paradox that the NVE puts its foot down when the former county rapporteur in Hordaland, from the Hordaland Senterparti, will build a small power plant on his farm in Granvin. The NVE justified this with the following wording, repeated in the Official Journal of Bergen on 22 October this year: ‘The importance of landscape values in the western fjords and, in particular, Hardangerfjorden can hardly be exaggerated’. So this is how a small power plant is stopped, which would hardly be visible. At the same time, Statnett plans huge air voltage power lines. The lines, locally referred to as the sampling lines, are approximately: 40 metres high and shall decorate the landscape through the Hardangerfjord from Sima to Kvam and above the Kvam Forest, which is the main recreational area of Bergen. I think the NVE is exaggerating in its campaign against cabling, especially in the case of Hardangerfjord. In fact, wiring is sometimes more expensive than air voltage, but the increased power demand is largely derived from increased activity in the North Sea, and when we earn billions of dollars in oil and gas extraction, it should also be a social responsibility to transfer power in a manner that is sound in terms of managing unique natural landscapes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2041	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1614]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2057	Today, we are to ratify the Agreement on the Varanger fjord divider between Norway and Russia, which was signed in Moscow on 11 July 2007. This is an important part of the 30-year negotiation process between Norway and Russia — the former Soviet Union — in order to establish a full dividing line according to the principles of the Law of the Sea. Furthermore, it is an important step towards strengthening both predictability and stability in the political, administrative and economic sphere between our two countries. Furthermore, for people and businesses in the north, it is important to be better able to reconcile land-based and sea-based activities and to contribute to better coordination between activities in the Barents Sea and in the Barents region. The Agreement establishes a boundary line in a coastal area within and outside Varangerfjord. The boundary line, with a total length of 73 km, demarcates the territorial sea, the economic zones, the continental shelf so far, and the neighbouring zones between Norway and Russia. It is based on the maritime boundary rules of the Law of the Sea following a so-called simplified centreline drawn between well-defined points. Discussions between Norway and Russia on the demarcation of the continental shelf in the Barents Sea have been ongoing since 1970, for the 200-mile zone since 1984. Until now, discussions have essentially focused on the area of overlap between the Norwegian mid-line requirement and the Russian sector requirement in the Barents Sea. The area of which there is now agreement lies northeast of the Varangerfjord area. Since the beginning of the demarcation discussions, it has been clear that the further south of the Barents Sea also had to be demarcated. That's what we're now going to ratify. A comprehensive Foreign Affairs Committee has expressed the importance of reaching agreement on the maritime demarcation between Russia and Norway in the Varangerfjord area. The boundary line clarifies the extent to which each of the two States has authority in this sea area. It will contribute to greater predictability in the region, which will have a positive impact on the management of off-shore resources and the development of land-based long-term jobs. Furthermore, it is beneficial for stability and cooperation in the region that one has now agreed on the boundary line in the Varangerfjord area and that the agreement is in line with Norway’s central line-related positions. The members of the Foreign Affairs Committee have also expressed their agreement with the Government and that this Agreement will maintain and strengthen the good neighbourly relationship between Norway and the Russian Federation. I would like to stress that this agreement is a positive element in the Northern Territory operation of the Government. It is hoped that the Agreement will contribute positively to the further work of reaching agreement on demarcation in the remaining part of the Barents Sea. Clearance of the Barents Sea sub-line is essential for future stability. The agreement we are now ratifying confirms the objective of such stability and predictability, by not providing for its duration or for provisions on termination. It will thus be in force indefinitely. It contributes to clarity and predictability. Therefore, it is positive that the 73 kilometres closest to the country has now been clarified. The remaining part of the unresolved maritime borderline between Norway and Russia is the only remaining demarcation issue in Norway. Let me again underline how important it is that we have been able to clear the border so far into the sea in accordance with international law. We have time to find the best solution to what's left. At the same time, it is hoped that this agreement will facilitate further good cooperation between our two countries on the divider line issue and in all the other important areas of Norway and the North. With this, I recommend the unanimous vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2080	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1614]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2096	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2105	I will not repeat the debate that we had here on 19 June on Ot.prp. No 66 for 2006-2007. Nevertheless, it is necessary to associate the matter with a few additional comments. The Committee agrees unanimously with the Government’s proposals in the context of the ETS Directive. We follow up on the scheme that was adopted in June. We have put in place an EU ETS adapted to the EU ETS, with certain exceptions. These are the exceptions I would like to comment on briefly. The other parties will probably explain their special points, but as I said, it is a unanimous committee that is behind the support of the advice given by the Government. Among other things, there has been the additional information that the Storing does not want to set a ceiling on using the Kyoto-based mechanisms. We've got the result that we've only got up to 20 pst. of our allowances can apply these mechanisms. Of course, that may seem gross, but it is, in the name of justice, that it is among the best of all countries' ability to apply the same mechanisms. What there is reason to point out, and that is not positive, is that the government has been frightfully involved in this matter. It has not been the case that then Minister for the Environment Helen Bjørnøy promised the affected, namely the Norwegian industry, that they would be given good time in the consultation process around the regulations. The government has been delaying all along, both towards Stortinget and towards the Norwegian industry. One aspect is the selection of a different reference period from that foreseen by the other EEA and EU countries. The fact that the EU was not fully followed here, I think, as the Norwegian industry becomes aware of how this can be achieved, will receive more attention than has so far been given to it. And the fact that no Norwegian industry, i.e. industry established or expanded its activities after 2001, will be given the same opportunities for free allowances as those made outside the country’s borders will not be in favour of either the overall climate, the overall level of emissions or the competitiveness of Norwegian quota-based businesses. Let me also say that I am not familiar with, at least we were not there at the time when the committee completed its work, on the matter which was supposed to be put to the hearing of those affected by the ETS Directive – and that in a situation where the directive will start to apply from the end of the year. As you know, Christmas is quite soon, and we are in a situation where the allocation system is not known to those affected. It can hardly be regarded as a lucky or happy situation, because the companies affected do not have an overview of what the expected CO2 liabilities from which they are incurred from 1 January next year will mean. There is also reason to stress that the Kårstø plant is currently not familiar with it, if I have not missed other information, what kind of system and what kind of free allowances you will get from the turn of the year. So the term ‘soml’ has its place in all ways in the government’s handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2123	In this proposition, the Government proposes that consent be given to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee. 146/2007 of 26 October 2007, and I want to draw the attention of the representative Kristiansen to the fact that today, on 18 December, it is not that long since 26 October. As regards amendments to the Climate Quota Act, they were adopted on 22 June of this year. An EEA decision was therefore taken subject to the consent of the Storting for subsequent approval in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The aim of the regulatory acts is to contribute to cost-effective reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by establishing a greenhouse gas trading scheme in Europe. The proposal, which is unanimous, as the rapporteur, Mr Kristiansen also said, details these acts. Then there are still a number of regulatory changes before the ETS Directive and the related acts can be considered fully enforceable in the Norwegian legal system. That's what's at the core here. That is also why the Government will prepare a plan for the allocation of allowances with a detailed description of the Norwegian allowance system and the plan is to submit it to ESA for approval. Lack of connection to the EU ETS — we are not a member of the EU, as we know — has led Norway to a lack of an operational electronic allowance registry. State pollution control has now established an electronic EU ETS registry to be put into operation when the decision on the link to the European ETS enters into force. Fortunately, a unanimous committee demonstrates the purpose of these acts, and it is mainly to contribute to cost-effective reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by establishing a greenhouse gas trading scheme in Europe, to which Norway has previously joined. The Norwegian quota system will cover more than 40 pst from 2008. by Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. If we look at the 2008-2012 period, we need at least 90 pst. of the allowances allocated free of charge. The EEA/EFTA countries have been granted a derogation from this provision in the decision of the EEA Committee, and I also refer to it. The Committee, which is unanimous on almost all points, points out that the majority of the Storting decided not to allocate allowances free of charge for new activities or extensions of activities after 2001. So the Progress Party and the Right have a note describing some unfortunate and discriminatory consequences of this. But it's worth noting, in these times, that in this specific case, the Right Party and the Advance Party are criticizing the Government for distributing too few quotas. In practical policy, the Government is too strict, they say. In the media, on the other hand, the same parties, especially the Right, criticised the Government for not being strict enough. Yes, so is the political opposition in Norway at the moment. I point out that the Government is on its way to a new and offensive climate policy for Norway. The matter we now have to deal with will lead to an improvement in the climate, and it is probably a case that shows that the Government is following words of concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2144	Let me just start by asking the representative Nordtun to use a three-minute post to explain the criticism against the Right and the Advance Party, because I cannot see that there has been any inconsistent attitude on the part of the Progress Party in relation to the climate quota law, either when it was adopted in the Stortinget in June, or when it was debated in this Chamber for approx. One and a half weeks ago – and one in the comments in the position we are going to debate. So here the representative Nordtun has constructed a reality that doesn't exist. When we look at the climate quota law adopted by the Stortinget, which is part of the debate that is now taking place, it bears the mark of urgent work – here is the rapporteur’s contribution very well. I find that the government has not provided predictability, as one promised in the election campaign, and so one got the impression from the representative Nordtun that one has done. Very much is undecided. It is a little strange when one knows that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his statement to the Stortingen a month ago, on the EEA issues in question, gave the impression that a struggle to ensure competitive framework conditions for Norwegian industry – and so Norway has a climate quota law with the most stringent frameworks, which says that after 2001, one has established something that emits CO2, one will not get competitive conditions in line with its competitors. On the contrary, a few worse framework conditions, which in fact would make it more lucrative to own an industry with higher emissions, if it were established only before 2001, than to invest in new technology in a new company to compete. The example that we should spend more time and get a more thorough review is Kårstø gas power plant and the situation there, where we now – less than a week before Christmas, less than two weeks before New Year – do not yet know what kind of framework the government will provide Kårstø gas power plant compared to CO2 allocation. If you want to take into account what the oil and energy minister has said, it is that if something is to be based on CO2 clean-up, it must have CO2 clean-up at start-up. It doesn't have Kårstø. However, it is precisely the same formulation that underlies the allocation of quotas to gas power stations under the climate quota law. Or should a define the same sentence differently, depending on what purpose you want? It's possible. I'd be very pleased if you were to base a completely different opinion on what a CO2 cleaning is based on in the Climate Ratio Act, if that means that Kårstø survives and gets allowances. But that doesn't exactly provide predictability for the industry. I also note that this law was incorporated into the EEA Agreement while there is a legal case in progress in the legal system: NorFra Kalk has complained because the decision will have retroactive effect and is clearly discriminatory. I am in favour of – I am strongly in favour of – the EEA Agreement, but the climate quota law and the way Norway deals with this matter because of the government’s policy, I strongly oppose it. It is a self-selected Norwegian scheme with a sharp deterioration in competition conditions for Norwegian industry. The government should have done better work, pursued a consistent policy – which was implemented – and not just have a fine rhetoric. I also note that the Minister for the Environment, who is present here as Minister for Aid, has admitted that CO2 is indifferent to the way an award is awarded. It's a cost distribution we're discussing, not the amount of allowances. So if we had allocated all Norwegian industry, also established after 2001, allowances based on the same framework conditions as one has in general in the EU, it would not mean greater EU CO2 emissions globally, it would only mean that the cost was removed from the industry, and that the Government could not sell the same EU market allowances. It is a bit striking that a government that boasts that we have such an offensive climate quota law, giving the impression that it reduces CO2 emissions more than if one had not had an equally offensive climate quota law, uses the surplus of climate allowances to sell in the EU market. So one has to sell climate allowances for 8 million tons, but one only has to buy for 1 million tons. And then a system adds another 5 million tonnes by taking action through the green development mechanism. So this is not a measure to reduce CO2 emissions, it is a measure to fill the treasury. I hope the Council of State will inform us at Stortinget about what kind of quota allocation you are now adding to Kårstø, because when there are less than two weeks left for the new year, then a must not wait any longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2190	The aim of the regulatory acts is, as has been said, to contribute to cost-effective reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by establishing a greenhouse gas trading scheme in Europe. The Norwegian quota system will cover more than 40 pst from 2008. by Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Norwegian participation in European quota trade will enter into force from 1 January 2008. This will be an important contribution to reducing emissions and to stimulating migration. We've just been through some historical climate weeks, first with the climate negotiations in Bali, which ended with an emergency terror with a road map for the way on. I think we all breathed lightly when it finally became clear that it was going well, and that the United States was forced to kneel. Last week, many of us attended events in connection with the United Nations Climate Panel and Al Gore. Finally, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has received the recognition they deserve. Many powerful actors are systematically trying to undermine this work, which has helped to prevent the necessary intervention to slow development. They have now received a more difficult job – fortunately. We know that the CO2 content of the atmosphere has not been higher in 650 000 years. We're going to have a temperature increase that will have incalculable consequences for us. If we allow this to develop without introducing the necessary measures, this could come out of control. In any case, we will probably have to get used to the fact that getting rid of the climate problems will be one of the biggest expenditure items on the state budget. In response to climate change, we need to think about getting as much money back as possible for the money we invest, in terms of emission reductions. The polluter pays is a principle to which the entire Storting has joined, and we have to do things as cost-effectively as possible. We have taken an important step past the EU when we have decided not to have free allowances after 2012. It is important to work towards the EU system in order for it to be the same there, that there should be no free allowances in the EU system after that time. It is important to stress that the ETS is only one of several ways to meet the climate challenges. In addition, we need to have a significant focus on research and development. These include: The Technology Council has pointed out that other and more targeted instruments are needed to accelerate technological development in Norway. The quota system shall contribute to the implementation of emission reduction measures where they maximise cut-off per. invested crowns, and may also make it more attractive to invest in and develop technology. According to the Group of Experts of the Council of Technology, the main contribution of the quota system is today the dissemination of available technologies, while they contribute little to technological innovation and incremental innovation. The reason is that the price of carbon is too low and the Kyoto agreement too short-term. The same problem can also be faced by the EU ETS. Technological innovation requires broader and more targeted use of instruments. Bali negotiations have shown that technological developments beyond the scope of quota trading will be crucial to bringing about a new agreement. We who live in that part of the world that has the best assumptions to drive new technology have a special moral responsibility to do just that. I think it's in place to mention it, even though it's now the ETS directive we're debating.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2208	The climate problem is one of the greatest challenges of our time. We have enough evidence that this is due to our human-made activities. Global climate change will have serious consequences. I can mention health, ecological and economic consequences. So it's like we've got some good, professional advice. The UN has, among other things: given us this: by 2015 we have to manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere, then by 2050 to reduce emissions by 50-80 pst. Norway has a great responsibility. We have to take that over. We need effective and comprehensive national measures. Then we have to use international mechanisms, as agreements open up for. The polluter pays principle is an important principle for the Christian People's Party in our environmental policy. This principle believes that we should be linked to a new and more ambitious climate agreement that will take over after the Kyoto agreement when its end comes. In 2004, the Bondevik II Government promoted the climate quota law. An important principle that was established here was that a price should be linked to climate emissions. We know that we have a big challenge in putting in place a global carbon price that makes it profitable to clean, and that it's expensive to pollute. In this area, we need to think creatively and look at how we can do it, because through quota trading, we can get industry and business to invest in environmentally friendly technology, which is the future. But we know that the final sum, the bottom line, is crucial in terms of industry and forward-looking business. The Christian People's Party believes that through clear signals that it is going to cost greenhouse gas emissions, industry will also shift towards a more environmentally friendly direction. But it is important to stress that there must be clear signals, and that there are not too many loopholes. It's no problem to postpone the summer vacation for Stortinget. We did this year to adopt the quota law. The fact that we postponed the summer holiday for a few days tells us that the government is a little on the verge of this matter, even when today, the next day of the fall session, we are dealing with the follow-up matter of the law we dealt with overtime in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2223	The world is facing major challenges as a result of greenhouse gas emissions and subsequent climate change. The solutions to these challenges lie in international cooperation on mandatory emission reductions. By joining the EU's ETS Directive, we are contributing to cost-effective greenhouse gas emissions through a greenhouse gas trading scheme in Europe. The central party's ideology is based on political challenges to find a solution at the lowest reasonable level in public administration. Even if we can all make an effort to save the environment, there's no doubt that the situation we're in now requires political change and mandatory international cooperation. The central party’s EU position would be well known, but that does not mean that the central party does not want to cooperate with the countries of Europe when it comes to matters that need to be resolved globally. The Quota Directive will oblige Norway to submit five-year plans showing the volume and distribution of quotas. The size has previously concluded that land-based businesses will be allocated free of charge allowances corresponding to an average of 92 pst. in the years 1998 to 2001, and that no allowances were to be allocated free of charge for new activities or extensions after 2001. Many of the posts today have gone into the content of the matter, so I'm going to say very briefly that the quota system is an important hub for us to take our share of the responsibility of delimiting greenhouse gas emissions. It's one of our contributions to the global effort that the world needs to set in motion to save the environment on the globe. Even if we are a small country, we are a rich country, so in that virtue we have to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2234	The Quota Directive is an important tool in climate action. It appears that the trading of allowances is now to be used in more and more areas and towards more and more emission sources. We have been given an example of that today. It brings me to Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who pointed out that trading in allowances can be an effective tool, but not a driving force in innovation and technology development. At that, the carbon price is too low. No Marte Thorkildsen also says that an overall approach is required to drive technology development and to produce innovative, good solutions. That's exactly what you're facing with the Mongstad plant, where you've chosen to buy allowances for some tens of millions instead of doing the job you promised you would do to drive this project in a way that represented the purification of 100,000 tonnes of CO2 from day one. The left will join the setting. We stress that the realities of this document have been discussed in this Chamber and have been widely discussed in the past. For the Left, it is essential that a policy is set up so that the polluter pays. We want a tighter regime than the majority suggested when the case was dealt with last time. I would like to stress that it is very important to tighten up the regime during the next agreement period, and that work towards the EU is intensified and maintained at a high level, precisely in order to achieve that result. When this was dealt with last time, the left was explicitly clear that one is against including gas power plants without CO2 handling and getting free allowances. There is reason to ask what is the Government's policy in this area, as previous speakers have done. We are facing a directive that will be in force in 10 to 14 days, and still it is the key actors who do not know what to do with the framework. I hope that the statements of the Council of State will clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2253	Let me start by thanking No Marte Thorkildsen and Line Henriette Holten Hemdal for reminding us of what the matter is about. Because when we go into climate ratios and techniques, we forget very quickly that it's all about, it's all about, it's really central to Earth's survival, the big picture. I'm just saying that, because it's necessary that we remember it every single time, so we don't get involved in a big argument about relatively technical details and forget the main picture. Although there's a lot of technology, it's a big and important decision that we're now making. I am pleased that we are doing that, and I am glad that the Stortinge is united in this, and that Norway is becoming part of the EU's quota trading system. I believe that in the long term it is a crucial tool for combating climate change. It is also a cost-effective system. It's simply an important decision that's being made, and I'm glad that it's happening unanimously. Then there are some speakers from the opposition who pointed to points they are critical of – almost all of them we had a much bigger debate about in the Storting just 14 days ago. I can of course repeat it now. If the Storting wants it, we'll do it. But let me just remind you of what I said. Thus, in the context of the green development mechanism, Norwegian enterprises will have the opportunity to purchase it or to jointly implement it in the EU 13 pst system. of the expected emissions. This is identical to what will be the competitive situation for EU enterprises, and is based on joint decisions, which Norway alone cannot take. But a positive side is that such purchases will provide money for significant development measures in many poor countries – development measures that would otherwise not be achieved. The progress party points to questions that we also had up ten days ago, questions about the base period. Let me say the same thing again -- I think business needs predictability, I think you need a basic period. If you don't have it and you're going to juggle with it almost at all times on the basis of the populist plays and views that may come, you'll never get what's the basic here: a consistent incentive and a drive towards investing in new and forward-looking technology. Then the rules of the allocation plan, including the issue of quota reserves, will be sent to the hearing in the very near future, hopefully this week. In this context, as I said earlier in Stortinget, free allowances will be granted, and some of the companies mentioned here will of course have the opportunity to apply for the free allowances. The complainant and others have criticised the Government for ‘concealing’ — that was the term used. I don't want to go that far, but I'll go as far as to say that as much good as this government has done, I think we can admit that this case could have been handled somewhat faster. I am not happy that we have not been able to send out these guidelines so closely during Christmas. But this is also because these are huge technical issues, which naturally involve a number of departments, and it requires precision in the work that needs to be done. We could have been faster, and we're going to try to be faster if there's a parallel situation in other cases. Finally, I would like to say, when the Progress Party rises, there must be law in many other issues in the Stortinget. But the criticism of climate policy by the Progress Party is not easy to take seriously. If you've spent 20 years of your life criticising all those who thought that the climate noise was a serious question, I ask you to be a little moderate in language usage when you accept that it is. I have been in debate with the Progress Party in the 1980s – as it said that this was something SV had invented to win votes. Throughout the 1990s, this was something that the green fanatic had to do with, and that did not belong to. And as late as the Nobel Prize was awarded to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change a few months ago, the Progress Party used the opportunity to doubt whether there really existed any climate turmoil. Why, then, should the party be taken seriously in this debate? If you have been a pagan throughout your life, you should not speak of what is true Christianity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2276	The fact that we are discussing major issues is not an excuse for implementing bad policies. I wish the Council of State had given the impression that there is a certain progress in the timing of the hearing on the award, or at least said that the matter will come in the very, very, very close time – that it will come in the very nearest time, we have heard for a few months. The question concerns what the party colleague of the Council of State, the representative of Thorkildsen, said in his statement, that we are determined not to have free allowances after 2012. We've heard a lot of statements from state councils that Norway has an ambition not to have free allowances after 2012, but all the way, it's got a hard way to get it off the ground, because you're going to see what the EU is doing, probably because one has a certain understanding of the need for competitive framework conditions. Is the statement by the representative Thorkildsen a confirmation of the government's policy? Has the Government now decided not to have free allowances after 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2285	I think we're going to try to have a political look at what's going on internationally with regard to climate change and the gigantic negotiations that will last for two years until the Copenhagen meeting in 2009. Let's not have an auditor approach to this, where we believe the dot can now determine what will be the situation in 2012. I think the most likely thing will be that led by an American president with visions in this area, where China will end up about it, and where the EU will be a driving force in it, I will be able to rejoice – but from the point of view of the Progress Party one can risk – that one will have significantly tighter conditions to deal with in 2012. But neither of us can say this on the dot. Norway has to deal with what is happening internationally, but our ambition is to be in charge of implementing exactly the guidelines that the world needs to take into account. Included in this is that you should not be trading free allowances after 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2294	I am pleased that the Council of State joins the criticism that I addressed to the Government – I used the term ‘soml’. However, the fact that the Council of State chose to use other words is not a basis for reducing my joy that he admits that the Government could have worked much faster in this matter. This also illustrates a little of what was my main focus on the nuances of these issues where we distinguish layers with the EU. My question then is whether the Council of State thinks it is right that new industry, set up after 2001, which is probably the most environmentally friendly, which invests in new and environmentally friendly technology, should be penalised economically and have a competitive disadvantage in relation to industry outside its borders, which escapes this penalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2301	We had a pretty thorough discussion about this in Stortinget for just about. ten days ago, but I repeat with great joy what I then said: A basic period is needed in this area to avoid a situation where it becomes liquid — where the industry does not know what it has to do with, and where different forms of political pressure will be determined. So the base period you choose is a little bit random. This government chose to use the same base period as the Bondevik government did – and to follow it up. So that's the basis for that base period. I'm taking a clear distance from that this could be something you're juggling with. You could have chosen another base period, but it would have created exactly the same problems as those mentioned here. The basic and important thing is to get into a system where industry knows what it has to do, to have clear incentives for research and development in order to get more environmentally friendly solutions — and not to think that by delaying and waiting you can get cheaper from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2312	The extent to which the Progress Party has changed its policy is likely to be discussed, but there is only a small amount of progress in terms of the change of course in terms of SV and the question of gas power plants. It started with SV opposing all gas power plants – whether they had CO2 cleaning or not. Then it was decided, after fighting, at the national meeting that one should be for – on the condition that it was cleaned from day one. Then one joined the government – because the gas power plant at Kårstø was to have clean-up from 2009. Then one went in for the Mongstad plant – because the test facility there was supposed to have clean-up from 2010. Now we know that the Kårstø elevator is broken. Now we know that the Mongstad promise is broken. And now a hunter is assessing whether to give the gas power plant at Kårstø free allowances to a large extent. Does the Council of State feel that he still has eye contact with SV's original policy regarding gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2326	The fundamental question here concerns the development of CO2 capture and storage technologies. That technology has evolved – again as I said in Stortinget for approx. ten days ago – because Kristin Halvorsen got caught. There was no incentive from the Bondevik government to get this done. For example, the Bondevik government had: Just started the project on Melkøya – without setting the same requirements. But then Kristin Halvorsen and Åslaug Haga started to work and said that without CO2 capture and storage, we cannot accept further developments in this area. The essential Norwegian contribution is to achieve this internationally. We contribute to it – hopefully British, American and others can also contribute – we are doing something that is absolutely fundamental in the climate struggle, because we will then be involved in developing a technology that is almost impossible to believe that we can stop the growth of emissions globally without. And if we can develop that technology in Norway, it will also be important to spread it to poor countries cheaply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2341	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Excuse me, Ketil Solvik-Olsen! The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2350	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I asked for the word under the articles of the Council of State. It is really the very arrogant behaviour of the Council of States in the pulpit that makes me want to take the floor. One thing is that the Council of State disagrees with the policy of the Progress Party. I live with that very well – I am really quite proud of it when I know what a political background he has. Another thing is to add to the Progress Party a number of points of view and to harp with them, as he does. I really think it promises bad when the Council of State adds up to the kind of debate that he is doing, considering the two years that are left. In the case of my reply, let me first start by saying: It was not signed that made this into an accountant debate. It was the SV’s own representative in the committee who did, by bastant, that it is decided that we should not have free allowances after 2012. When that is decided, that decision is made – if we are to trust the word of the representative. So anyway, I interpret the answer from the Council of State so that it's not in any way determined; it's something an assessor. And it's very good that an SV State Council beats the words of an SV representative. I live very well with that too. As far as climate policy is concerned, the Council of State shows that it has a religious approach to the climate debate. You have to be just to be allowed to have an opinion about things. If you even point out that there's reason to be in doubt about anything, you're kicked out of the good company. I know what kind of relationship SV has to some religious groups. They don't exactly talk uplifting when you have an approach to religious faith. And I think it's sad when SV has such an approach to a debate on such an important topic. The Council of State is drawing up the skepticism of the Advance Party that one has made the Nobel Peace Prize a climate prize. Then I show that this is not just something the Progress Party thinks, but I refer to research done at Norwegian universities, among others. by NTNU. One can go into research.no and see that three NTNU researchers have not only gone through individual situations but have had an overall approach to the world's conflicts, the world's resource base and the world's environmental challenges and say that there is no correlation with environmental challenges and conflicts, on the contrary. So the burden of proof here is really on the Council of State. I would also like to point out that the Progress Party has promoted a comprehensive proposal – which is, to an extent, two and a half times thicker than the Government's own renewable growth message – on how the Progress Party wants to comply with the Kyoto Agreement. We're making more than 30 suggestions. We wouldn't have made those proposals if we didn't think the issue was important. But we have other approaches, which take reality into account, and which are not just symbolism policies. I hope that the Council of State respects and does not ridicule the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2365	It was in response to the representative Kvassheim the council was a little high on the track, just as high on the track as he was ten days ago. The Council of State says that our significant contribution is to get this – i.e. CO2 handling – for. Yes, it is, but today's media image in Norway tells something quite different. It did not help for Kristin Halvorsen to be allowed to ‘take action’, as the Council of State said. When we discussed this in the budget debate ten days ago, I gave a historical description of what the Bondevik II government put on the table. We put on the table technology development, we put on the table concrete money to get this added. I got a smile from the Council of State ten days ago, and I get a smile from the Council of State today. But I hope that the Council of State also listens to what the Bondevik II government said, because there is something that we need to scratch before we can walk. This is the case in this case, and I think the challenges we face here are so great that we politicians too have to be so big and say that we have to lay stones to move on, and to meet the climate challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18.ana.ud731e2375	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox The morning meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1614]]
