ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e22	Representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Torny Pedersen, Espen Johnsen, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Finn Marin Vallersnes, Erling Sande, Ingrid Heggø, Tord Lien, and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The former alternate of Oslo, Karin Yrvin, has taken his seat. Applications for welfare leave from 17 October onwards and until further notice are made by the representatives of Gunvald Ludvigsen and André N. Skjelstad. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for Sogn and Fjordane counties Bjørg Mikalsen and for Nord-Trøndelag counties Anita Østby, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e84	Bjørg Mikalsen and Anita Østby are present and will take the seat. The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e89	I am delighted to promote a representative proposal from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Dagfinn Højbrätten, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn and myself to increase the savings banks' access to making profits for gifts for non-profit purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e94	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e97	On behalf of the major representatives of Ola T. Lånke, Dagrun Eriksen and Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and myself, I am pleased to be able to present a proposal for a representative to improve the framework conditions for foster parents, to increase legal certainty for foster children and to provide legal protection for young people with child protection measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e102	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 12 October 2007: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 12 October 2007 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined:State Secretary Bjørn Arild Gram is appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen.Communication adviser Ole Morten Geving is appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen. The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e133	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e142	After all, I must first be allowed to take the opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister on the two-year anniversary of the Government. It is certain that the government finds reason to celebrate, but I think there are many out there who feel cheated by the many promises this government has made. One of the Lifting Breaks that the Government definitely has is the lack of commitment to renewable energy. Norway, instead of being a lighthouse, has become one of the worst countries in Europe. We see that the tidal project is moving out, that wind power and hydropower projects are being put on ice – yes, it has even become so that a number of companies consider putting their business abroad, due to poor framework conditions in Norway. In the submitted State budget, the Government has also announced an increase in the taxation of hydropower, and this happens in a situation where we will have a potential premium of at least 10 to 20 ør per new year in electricity prices. kWh due to the entry into force of the CO2 quota system. This means that Norwegian consumers are at risk of being punished despite the fact that they are using the world's cleanest energy, while the government sits and collects the entire profit in terms of dividends, in terms of taxes, in terms of VAT, etc. When does the Government intend to start to recover from the investment in renewable energy, so that Norway can be the leading country in Europe in the production of clean and renewable energy, and in such a way that our consumers are not penalised, but that, on the contrary, we can start to supply Europe with clean and renewable energy, so that consumers are not penalised economically for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e156	First of all, I would like to thank you for the warm congratulations – thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e161	Here you go! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e168	So I want to answer the question, and the question was when we first put renewable energy. We're already in the process of doing that. The main measure for investing in renewable energy is the allocations granted by the State to support bioenergy, wind power and small hydropower plants. It is financed by what is called Enova's budgets. Enova gets money from two places, partly from what is called the network tariff, and partly from the Energy Fund, which the Government has established. The appropriations for renewable energy in 2005 were in excess of 700 million. kr. The appropriations in the 2008 draft budget are almost DKK 1.5 billion, i.e. twice what was two years ago. It is an indication that the Government has greatly increased the appropriations for renewable energy, bioenergy, wind power and other types of action. So you might want more. But to say that a doubling is not to bet, and to say that a doubling is not to do anything, is an unreasonable representation of reality. The second thing is that I think we should also put things a little bit into perspective. After all, Europe has formulated a target of reaching a 20 pst share of renewable energy. In Norway, the proportion is as good as 100 pst. Today, because in Europe, of course, all hydropower is considered renewable. Our goal is to get more renewable energy in Norway, but we are already at the world top in terms of renewable energy when it comes to hydropower, as it is in Europe. But we're not satisfied with that. That is why we need to focus more on renewable energy. We're doing great. That also applies to the other promises contained in the Soria Moria Declaration. We're on track. We're on it. We do a lot. We follow the promises we made. We follow up on the Soria Moria statement, whether it concerns kindergartens or care for the elderly, but we're not on target. It's still a lot of mess, but we're doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e177	It's not just the opposition on the Storting that criticizes the Government for this. Professional environments, researchers and a number of other experts have been very critical of the effort, or lack of, that is in the government budget. That means that the government doesn't think in the long term, among other things. because research efforts are becoming rather labyrinths. We know that both the opposition, the environmental movement and the trade unions wanted a scheme of green certificates, but the government instead introduced a poor subsidy scheme. The sum of this results in a number of projects not being realised. They are put on ice instead of helping to supply Europe with reasonable and clean energy, which means that over time the increase in electricity prices that Norwegian consumers now have to face could also be avoided. The Prime Minister is entitled to have consumers use clean energy. However, they are punished because of high taxes and high value added tax that the Government benefits from, despite the fact that we are the world's purest energy nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e186	It is not primarily the government that benefits from VAT. That money goes into the common fund, which we then spend on paying for hospitals, kindergartens and many other good purposes, so it's a split layer where we pay for common goods in common. In the case of green certificates, the Green Certificate Government. That is why we took the initiative to negotiate with Sweden, but those negotiations showed that we did not reach an agreement when it came to dividing the burden, costs, between Sweden and Norway. If you're concerned about price increases in power, it's a little weird both to complain about higher power prices and then to be a follower of green certificates, because green certificates will lead to higher power prices. So the government did not reach out in the negotiations with Sweden, but there has been contact with the Swedes to see if there was a possibility of a new movement. It hasn't been that far. Then we have alternative arrangements in place. In addition to doubling the effort on what is called new renewable energy, we're spending up to $1 billion on developing gas power cleaning technology in Mongstad. So there's a significant increase that's come these two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e198	There will be follow-up questions. First, Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e202	When the government broke its promise to enter into a green certification scheme with Sweden, it was with that argument that it was feared that Norwegian companies would rather invest in Sweden. At the same time, the promise to provide renewable energy schemes as good as the Green Certificate Scheme would provide. Nor have you been able to do so. At the same time, we see the paradox that Norwegian companies prefer to invest abroad. State's own company Statkraft is now investing between 15 and 20 billion kroner in Sweden, and we see that nine out of ten wind power projects are now being iced up as a result of inadequate support schemes. When the prime minister says they're on, they're actually in government year three out of four. Then it's certainly time to get started. When does the Government intend to leave the range of broken promises in the renewable sector in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e209	We follow up on the commitments to bet on renewable energy, both in terms of what is called new renewable energy, and in terms of other alternative energy such as renewable energy. gas power with CO2 cleaning. We spend about $1 billion on gas power with CO2 cleaning in Mongstad and Kårstø, and then we're betting on what's more traditional renewable energy: bioenergy, windmills and that kind of thing. I respect that the Right wants more, but there's something about the tone and the indignation from the Right that gets a little weird when you know that the Right in its last budget had half of the bet we now have. We have doubled the appropriations for new renewable energy over Enova's budgets from below 700 million. NOK nearly SEK 1.5 billion. Then I think that the Right should have had a little dampened criticism that we ‘only’ have doubled the effort in relation to what the Right did when they put in government. Then the then government worked with green certificates for four years without getting results. We presented concrete proposals in negotiations with Sweden. We didn't get there, because the burden distribution was unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e222	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e225	When the government budget was presented, the government sold this as a major contribution to new renewable energy. I have a fairly simple question for the Prime Minister today: how can he explain that there will be a huge effort on new renewable energy, when he gives four cents to small hydropower plants and he will take eight cents, according to the proposal of the State budget? How can it be a big bet? It's the same small power plants that are being hit. For the Christian People's Party, it is a worsening of the framework conditions for the small power industry. The Small Forces Association says they get between three and four TWh less. It's a terrible district policy to hit the small power plants. My question is pretty simple: he gives four ears, and he takes eight ears, according to the tax bill. How is there a commitment to new renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e234	We give to those power plants that need support, and then we take money from those power plants that have huge profits, and I think that's actually a good energy policy. Then there is also a good economic policy, because the rent tax that is at a lot of power plants today is being extended to a few more types of power plants. The real interest rate tax is a tax on what we call an extra large profit associated with someone managing natural resources, and only if the return is above what is called a risk interest rate, i.e. a normal return. Then the power plants went with a great deal of profit. Then they don't need State aid, and then we can tax them. Those who don't make profits and don't make money, they get state aid, and that's what it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e239	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e242	There is competition between most Western countries to attract renewable investment and renewable energy, to be competitive. After all, as we get all the examples of how Norwegian projects are also being tried to ‘bought’ to the rest of the world, there is a basis for getting out of the trench that has been in this questionnaire so far, and sitting down to see what we are doing now, based on the fact that there are quite large appropriations here, but it is obvious that the rates do not trigger this well enough to bet in Norway. The Prime Minister is satisfied with the effort, we hear. However, statements from his newly appointed oil and energy minister have come to the conclusion that here we need to see whether things need not be improved in order to actually trigger this in Norway. It's a good opportunity on this two-year day to take a step into the third year with even more fulfilled promises by saying that now we have an opportunity to look at this. The Climate Communication is being addressed. It's an invitation, I think, from an overall opposition to helping us convert this willingness to allocate to increased rates and thus actually increase the investment in renewable energy in Norway. Does the Prime Minister understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e247	The answer is yes. The Prime Minister is in. I am also involved in investing in renewable energy, and talking about it in the context of the climate communication. But precisely because I think it's an important debate, and I have a real desire to reach a settlement, I don't want to comment on specific demands and opportunities to give, because I think that only weakens the possibility of real negotiations. The negotiations will take place in the forums and the structures in which we have agreed to negotiate, but we are in. We really want to see if it is possible to reach a settlement, including with regard to renewable energy investment in the context of the climate communication. I'd say I'm proud of the effort, not the satisfaction. We're on it, but we're not on it. I believe that doubling the efforts on renewable energy is good, but that is not enough. I believe that spending one billion kroner in addition to CO2 cleaning is good, but it's going to get more there as well. In addition, and it's often underestimated, perhaps the most important thing we do is to put in place a CO2 allowance system. It pushes prices across Europe, and it also promotes environmentally friendly energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e262	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e265	Unfortunately, the Prime Minister goes around the pike and does not get to the heart of the question. We have heard that he claims that green certificates will increase the electricity price, but despite several attempts by the Progress Party to get the Government to document this in figures, we have not made it clear, even with new government councils in the building. Then the prime minister boasts of appropriations, but he didn't realize that it's actually the system that's wrong. Yes, everyone has recorded that the fund's size is increasing, but the problem is not a lack of money in the fund. The problem is that the levels of support for the projects are too low, so there are none of those who want to build projects, who think that the level is high enough to actually implement the projects. Then you can take as much money as you want into the system, but it doesn't come out at the other end in the form of realized projects. So we see that when the NVE, through the Newspaper yesterday, indicates that 10 TWh with electricity is not produced in Norwegian hydroelectric power plants because of poor maintenance, and that is a lack of incentive. It is also seen in the small power plants. Will the government look at the support level instead of just talking about how much they're giving into the fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e272	We have recently submitted a case to Stortinget, followed it up in the climate notification and notified it to ESA. We haven't finished it yet, but we expect it to happen during the fall. So there we introduce support rates of 4 cents for hydropower, 8 cents for wind power, and I think it's 10 cents – as far as I remember – for biopower. It is more than before, for in the past, this type of aid scheme did not generally cover the price. We're triggering some projects. Other projects have not been triggered by those support schemes, but some of the challenges are, for example: that on part of the hydroelectric power projects many believe that there is profitability with zero support. Then you have to be careful about how high you have to go in with support, when it might be triggered without support. However, it is essential that we have, first of all, doubled the appropriations, that we have secondly submitted grant rates and, thirdly, that we have negotiated green certificates with Sweden. This will certainly lead to an increase in price. I am willing to stand up and defend it, which I am willing to defend that there may be an increase in the price of CO2 quotas, but not when the burden-sharing was as distorted as in the negotiations with Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e283	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e286	I would also like to congratulate the Government on its two-year anniversary. It's like on a two-year-old's day there's a lot of balloons, a lot of shower and hurlumhei for most two-year-olds. I am not so sure whether this government should have it, because on the two-year anniversary we can see that this government has committed a breach of promises in very many areas. Many results and actions are also in the wrong direction. Now I want to take the opportunity to remind you that the reason why there are so many promises for the world's luckiest government is that there was a campaign in 2005, and there were so many promises, that it was almost impossible to fulfill them. One of the promises was very strongly linked to a better situation in health businesses. Several patients were to be treated. But we can now see on the two-year anniversary that there are 20 000 more in line. There are 4,500 fewer patients who get help through rehabilitation this year. So I can say that the irony of this is that it's probably because one promise has been made, but that promise brings us in the wrong direction when it comes to using the resources and letting patients and residents get a better offer. That promise is in the Soria Moria statement, that you have to buy smaller services from private individuals. Because you don't buy services from private people, there is free capacity, both for hospital treatment and rehabilitation, which could help more people get help. So that means you're doing a lot of promises because you're running a policy that goes in the wrong direction, because you choose not to use all the good powers. This government has developed an allergy to private solutions. Does the Minister of State see that it is perhaps appropriate to use the two-year anniversary of a spin-off and take the right steps to ensure that more people receive treatment in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e297	We're going to celebrate the two-year anniversary. It's true, as Solberg's representative says, it's not going to work with balloons and showers. There will be a sausage party in the Chamber of the Workers' Society, and there will certainly be a good atmosphere there. As far as health is concerned, as in other areas of the Soria Moria Declaration, we have followed up the promises. We are doing point by point what is stated in the Soria Moria declaration. It's a government that is very proud of what it delivers, and that does what it said before the election. Point by point, we can refer to it, whether it concerns the record development of kindergartens, the follow-up to the promise of 10,000 new annual work in the care of the elderly, that is to spend more than DKK 2 billion each year on roads and railways than the Right agreed when they were in government, or that, for example. to follow up on the cultural promise and many other questions. In terms of health, it's also like we've done a lot, but we're not satisfied, we're not in the goal. The waiting times are reduced by 18 days from the second tertiary in 2002 to the second tertiary in 2007, from 87 to 69 days, so the waiting times are lower now than when we took over. The representative, Solberg, said we promised to treat more patients. We have. Compared with the Bondevik II government budget, the number of patients treated has increased by 53 000. Never before have more patients been treated in Norwegian hospitals, never before have more money been allocated than today, and never before have more nurses, doctors and health workers been employed, so efforts have increased significantly. It is true that something less happens in the private sector, but in return, public health increases have increased more than the decline in the private sector, so total efforts have increased significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e306	I understand that we will conclude that fulfilling a promise is that fewer people will be rehabilitated in Norway and that more people will be in a health queue. For something else, the answer given by the Prime Minister could not be summed up. There are more people in health queues, and fewer have been rehabilitated. Last year, 4 500 fewer patients received rehabilitation services. I think it's a special way to celebrate a two-year anniversary, to say that it's fulfilling a promise. The truth is, when you ask what the reason is that more people are in line, then division director Hans Petter Aarseth, in the Social and Health Directorate, says that the clear signal in the Soria Moria statement to reduce the purchase of private health services in Norway also occurs. From 2005 to 2006, such services will be reduced by 114 million. kr. So the professionals say that it's their private allergy that reduces the amount of treatment you need. Are you going to turn around? Is it intended to lead this country in a better direction and to use all the good opportunities available to private people?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e315	So the efforts we make in relation to treating people in public hospitals are more than offsetting what we've seen in reducing the purchase of private services. Privates will continue to play a role in the Norwegian health system, they still contribute in many important areas, but we have therefore chosen to turn it so that there is more effort in the public sector and a little less in the private sector. The sum, however, is that we treat more patients and have more effort than we had under the previous government. That's what matters. It is true that there are a few more waiting, but the queues are shorter in the sense that you are standing there shorter and that the waiting times have decreased. So we're treating a lot more patients, and the waiting times have gone down, but because the offers are increasing, more people are reporting to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e320	There will be follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e323	I will be allowed to wish the Prime Minister the best of luck with the sausage party in the Samfunnssalen. I was actually in the Chamber yesterday and took part in a rehabilitation debate where representatives from the government parties were also. The overall message back to politicians is precisely the crisis in the rehabilitation service today. Last year, every six beds in the private rehabilitation institutions have disappeared. It treats 4,500 fewer of the patients who need provision of rehabilitation. The Soria Moria statement states that the Government will ensure rehabilitation for all those who need it. The feedback is unison. This is a huge breach of promise. The expectations were great, but the government has not delivered them. How does the Prime Minister think that the entry in the Soria Moria Declaration relating to rehabilitation to all votes is consistent with the removal of every sixth bed in the rehabilitation service last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e330	Also in the area of rehabilitation, this government is increasing its efforts. Rehabilitation takes place in different venues. It happens under municipal authority, it happens under the direction of healthcare companies, and it also happens to some extent in private rehabilitation institutions. In the case of earmarked grants to private rehabilitation and training institutions, the 2008 budget proposes DKK 1.98 billion. There is an increase from the 2007 level and there is a specific grant that has also been continued. So there's both an increase in the earmarked grant to private rehabilitation institutions and an increase in rehabilitation that happens in public hospitals, so overall there's an increased effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e335	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e338	Most two-year-olds have been promising once, but there are few who have stumbled to disappoint as many expectations in as short a time as today's anniversary. I know that the Prime Minister in his former career has had a relationship with statistics and should therefore have relatively good control over it. During the first four years of the hospital reform, hospital queues fell by 85 000, i.e. 20,000 a.m. years. In the last year, under this government, they've increased by exactly the same number as in the previous years. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister performs to stand and tell Stortinget that this is he satisfied with, yes, even proud of. Does it not at all impress the Prime Minister that his own government has managed to reverse what has been a long-standing trend in the right direction, and replace it with a trend that clearly goes in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e345	I hear that more and more of the questions claim that I say I am satisfied. That's why I can repeat it one more time. I think I've said it twice now that I'm not satisfied. I'm proud of our efforts in many areas, but I'm not satisfied, because we're not in goal. We've done a lot of work, but I'm proud of what we've achieved in two years. Half-way we've delivered and done a lot in a lot of areas, but we're not in the goal. That's why we're not satisfied either. The different waiting lists vary from tertiary to tertiary, and there are also different groups. But the total number is at least such that from 2nd tertiary 2005 to 2nd tertiary 2007 average waiting time decreased by 9 days, from 78 days to 69 days. The expected number of patients increased by 19 000 – that is quite right – but the time the patients are in line is falling. When the number of waiting persons increases, this is due, inter alia, to: together with much more patients being treated. A lot more people get an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e353	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e356	The government has given clear signals that hospitals should cut down on the use of private institutions. This means that most private training institutions have short-term contracts — one year at a time. Several institutions are already liquidated. Many institutions have reduced operations, despite long waiting lists. In 2006, the number of patients at these institutions was reduced by a total of 4,500. Of these, a number were elderly and chroniclers. Several public rehabilitation sites are to be built gradually, but the focus here is on labour-oriented rehabilitation. This will be at the expense of the elderly and chroniclers, who are not all to be rehabilitated back to work. This shows that the government cares more about ideology than about the elderly and chronically ill. Does it mean to the Prime Minister that many elderly and chronically ill people today have lost opportunities for rehabilitation? In the government budget and in the government's new rehabilitation strategy, there is not a single penny set aside for those who have now lost their offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e365	Firstly, we have presented a national strategy for rehabilitation in the context of the 2008 state budget. It is about multi-field bets — in municipalities, in health companies and in private rehabilitation institutions. Secondly, much of what is now happening in the area of rehabilitation is a follow-up to what the previous government put forward, namely that one should have more competition, that one should be able to choose between different institutions. You have to live with the fact that some of the institutions can't carry on their business. Thirdly, we have increased the earmarked grant to private rehabilitation and training institutions by nearly 50 million. kr. There is an increase in the budget for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e374	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e377	Some decades of life have taught both me and Left that we should be representatives of those who have little or no voice. It's like this in Norway — and that's a good thing — that even when you have a nice sausage party, you live in the vicinity of people who struggle with life. So what I'm saying now has nothing to do with it, because that's the proximity of our society. But that closeness can and should be so urgent that I know – and I guess the Prime Minister knows – that in the three years since we had a drug reform in which drug users were granted patient rights, drug addicts and drug addicts in the Health East, which is half of Health-Norway, experienced deadlines, as it is called in statistical Norwegian. 20 pst. had a breach of deadlines last year. 25 pst. had a breach of time in the first six months of this year. These people are then going to a place to get help. Does the Prime Minister see that these deadlines are there and that there is something he is going to do now? The Prime Minister feels that there is something to worry about when, for example, he or she is signed. Did this take up a few months ago and meet deafening silence? I expect that I will not face deafening deafness to the prime minister of the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e386	I think it is good and great that the Left and the representative of Dørum in Stortinget and in other contexts also address russorg and the efforts in the drugs field. It is an area where there are many weak, many who are not in a position where they can present their demands and their needs as loudly as other groups. These must have ombudsmen. They must have spokesmen. I am pleased that the representative Dørum is a spokesman for those who may have the most difficulty, a spokesman for some of those who are struggling with drug problems. Once again, we are proud that we have increased the effort in the budget that is now being dealt with in the Storting, but we are not satisfied. The increased effort proposed by the Government is not sufficient. It has to be even more. We are therefore not in the target, but we are in the process of escalating the efforts in the care area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e393	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e396	Last week, the Prime Minister was a guest speaker at the Joint Confederation. He was talking about retirement. He then produced the entire pension reform as a product of good cooperation between the Labour Party and the trade union movement and said, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘We have paid a little ‘insurance premium’ to the civil parties.’ Someone might say that this was a little arrogant. I want to make the best sense and say that I understand that the Prime Minister needs to tell the Joint League – using some simple rhetorical tricks – that they are part of and possess a ownership of this reform. I would like to stress, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, that we stand by every word in the pension agreement that we have entered into here in Stortinget. We agree that a future general early retirement scheme should be based on the AFP. We agree that workers in the labour market should be given the opportunity to retire in a worthy way through an AFP supplement of 62 years of age and that the value of the country's overall efforts in this AFP scheme should be continued in a new system. We equally agree with the main aim of the pension reform: to stimulate participation. It is very reasonable principles both that it should be possible to combine work and retirement without shortening the pension, and that it should give higher pension rights in the future. The pension expert Knut Røed has concluded that it is possible to maintain the incentive for work in a system that meets the requirements of the Joint Confederation, but that it will be cost-intensive for either the State or the employers. The Prime Minister is well aware that the contracting parties to the Stortinge agree that the public expenditure framework of the future pension system has been provided by the conciliation. I have also noticed with interest that the Prime Minister in his speech a week ago declared war on the employers. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: Is it in the cold water of these statements that the business community and businesses are once again going to get a large and unexpected additional bill from the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e414	Firstly, I would like to stress what the representative, Højbräten, says, that it is a settlement. It is more than a ‘insurance premium’. It's a real political settlement. There are several governments that have brought about the reform, and that gives it strength. We're not on target. We're really in the middle of the reform process. There are many concreteisations and many negotiations to be carried out before the pension reform is fully in place, but the foundation has been laid. That's what I want to call a national settlement about the pension. On the one hand, there is an agreement between political parties here in Stortinget. It is important in itself, but in order to bring about a fully-fledged pension reform, it is also necessary to reconcile with the social partners. It is linked to the fact that significant parts of the Norwegian pension system are anchored in the contract agency – both occupational retirement provision and contractual pension, the AFP, which is absolutely crucial to how the early retirement scheme looks. Politicians cannot adopt a pension system independently of the social partners. It has to be negotiated, according to the rules of the game that apply in the social sphere between the social partners, before we have the system in place. That's why I'm a member of what we call a national settlement. What I've been busy saying – to the Joint Union, to the YS yesterday and to others – is that if you reach a consensus, the state will be willing to go in with more money than what we put in when today's AFP system was put in place, because in the so-called 1996 Jagland letter that Prime Minister Jagland and Minister of Finance Stoltenberg put together, it says that the tax advantage is going to be liquidated and that we are going to consider eliminating pension benefits. These are the two essential elements of the state's funding. We're now saying that we're willing to go on with it, that is. Go beyond what we said in 1996, if we get an agreement. It's an offer to get the parties. Therefore, the State can make a larger contribution. In addition, we offer the parties to remove any curtailment of earnings – that is, if you make money in addition to your pension – and we put in a flexible population benefit from 62 years at the bottom. So the state's contribution is increasing, but it's in line with the pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e425	I'm glad the Prime Minister says he's satisfied, but he's not in target here either. He did not say that he was proud of the pension agreement. Actually, it's me. I think it is quite important that we be able to agree on something as central as the pensions for 40–50–60 years to come across the parties in Stortinget. The Prime Minister did not answer directly to my question about his declaration of war against business in this context means that business can expect part of this additional bill that he now says the state will pick up a part of. Is it so that the Prime Minister wants to increase the contribution of the State, so that there will be no such additional bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e434	First, I have to offer a confession and a complaint: I am sorry that I forgot to say that I am proud of the pension reform. That's how it's done. I'm proud of the pension reform. That is what we are both, both the Prime Minister and the representative of the High Commissioner, because it is a major and important reform. But there are still very important elements, such as the early retirement scheme AFP and occupational retirement provision, and some of the concreteities of the principles adopted by the Stortinge. I do not fully recognize myself in the word ‘declaration of war’. At least it was not my intention to make a declaration of war against the employers at the Joint Federal Assembly. What I stressed was that employers have to contribute. They pay about 75 pst. by the AFP bill today, and they must continue to contribute if the pot is to be large enough to create a good AFP scheme in the future. So I said we're willing to contribute more than what we're obliged to do in relation to today's scheme, and that's in line with the pension agreement. It's actually there, in the sense that we had to wind up the tax advantage. The value of that is going to continue if we agree. It's hard to negotiate in the main hall. Now it's going to be negotiated with the parties, and I hope and believe that we can find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e446	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e449	When the AFP was established in its time, it was a system that would help the laborers out of work in a worthy way. We know that the AFP has evolved to become a more and more inclusive system, and it is also being used as a final package in some contexts for healthy, working people because they have become a little older. It is in poor contrast to a good, forward-looking senior policy. When the Council of State visited the National Assembly of the Joint Confederation, he assured the Joint Confederation that they would have an equal arrangement with today, which means that there will also be a more expensive scheme, that you will have to earn pension money by working longer. The Prime Minister now told the representative, Højbråten, that it should be negotiated in the labour market, and then the state is an important negotiator. Will the State take on the idea of establishing an AFP scheme that only provides for the workers, or does the Prime Minister and the Government wish to have an AFP scheme that includes all? In this case, will the State take the entire bill, or will the principal bill be sent to the business community?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e458	The AFP is a mechanism negotiated between the social partners, and it is they who have to make adjustments through negotiations. What the government is doing, among other things: by letters that we have made on various crossroads, is to organise the premises and frameworks for those negotiations. What I made clear to the Joint Undertaking is completely in line with the pension agreement, namely that we are prepared to go in with more money than what we are obliged to do on the basis of the original agreement of today's AFP from 1996, because it says that we should liquidate the value of the tax advantage and that we consider to liquidate the value of service. We're saying we're adding that money. Then there will be more money in the pot compared to what was originally meant. The country has a significant impact on the early retirement scheme. Today, in popular terms, there is no early retirement scheme, and the age limit for the population is 67 years. The most important thing we do is we introduce early retirement into the population's well-being from the age of 62. It applies to all, while the AFP only applies to those who have a collective agreement. It's coming up on popularism. What we've said in the big news is that we're assuming that there's going to be a separate AFP plug-in on the back of the population. We're standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e467	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e470	The working line is the very basic philosophy of the pension reform, i.e. as far as possible to work as possible and to be able to work. So far we haven't succeeded enough to achieve a successful senior policy. There is a need for far more offensive action from the Government. Today, those who work after the age of 67 get their pension. The Prime Minister has said that curtailment of the pension is a utility and that it should be removed as soon as possible. In the proposal for next year's government budget, the curtailment is removed for the 67-year-olds, but not for the 68- and 69-year-old year-olds. What will the Prime Minister say to the 68- and 69-year-olds who want to work, and who thought they would get more from next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e477	I agree that it is important to promote the working line. Therefore, it is important to create a pension system where it is easier to combine work and social security. There is some of the main point of the pension reform. The prerequisite for cutting back on the curtailment is that we create a pension scheme where it pays off to work. We can't have a pension scheme like today's AFP, where you get the exact same pension either when you're 62 or when you're 67. Then we have to have curtailment if people want to work side by side. Otherwise, everyone will go off and work next door. The prerequisite for removing the curtailment is that we get a pension scheme where you get something back to stand for one more year. If we get that right – and that’s what gets exciting in the negotiations – then we remove the abbreviation, not from 67 years old, but from 62 years old. Then people can lose their full pension as 62-year-olds and work as much or as little as they like. They can actually continue in the same job that they have today, be retired and earn as much as they want without curtailment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e486	Martin Engeset – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e489	In many ways I am impressed with the Prime Minister. He has for a long time developed a great ability to double-communise, in the sense that he has developed a point competence in the field. There's no one over here and no one over here. He seems to follow the principle that compromise is the art of dividing a cake so that everyone thinks they've got the biggest piece. In part, we see this in the question of retirement. The representative Tørresdal was in the impression created in relation to the curtailment of 67-70-year-olds who were suddenly to be wound up one day before the local elections — budgetary leakage. As late as June 2007, the government strongly argued against the Right's proposal to wind up the curtailment for the whole group of 67-70-year-olds, because it was completely impossible to do this before 2010. Suddenly there will be a budget leak the day before the election to do so. When the budget came, we saw that it was only for the 67-year-olds. This, I think, is a little fair way to pursue politics, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e496	I'm pretty sure what the A-press wrote about shortening before the election was exactly what we are proposing in the budget. What we said was that we were going to remove the abbreviation for those who are 67 years old, that they should be able to receive a pension and be able to work alongside them without any curtailment. But the big debate that we had in June 2007 and that I raised, among other things. At the National Meeting of the Federation of Pensioners, there is actually a slightly different debate. That is the goal of the pension reform, and then we have to have a different pension system at the bottom. It's that you have to have a pension scheme where you get a little more pension by working from 62 to 63 than when you're 62. If we get into a system where it pays to stand, then we can remove all the curtailment, and then it will be possible for people either to take full retirement and not to work anything or to have a full pension and work a little bit alongside. They should no longer count, have a roof, measure or calculate after, then there will be free access to work as much as you want next to the pension. We can't do the big system change until we have a new pension scheme, but hopefully we do, from 1 January 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e503	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e506	The biggest thing the government in these two years has invited the Stortinge to attend is in many ways the pension agreement. It's going to be crucial for generations to come, and I'm very happy that we've come up with such a broad solution, which will make it a robust pension solution we get. The Prime Minister has demanding tasks ahead of him in meetings with the negotiating partners, as it is likely to be part of this spring, in balancing and caring for the framework of the pension settlement, and finding solutions that make it an AFP mechanism compatible with the pension settlement. It's going to be demanding, I don't understand how much room the Prime Minister has for action, but it's obviously going to be demanding. My question – and there is also a call for the Prime Minister – is about the Prime Minister in his work this spring, in his contact with the parties, necessary offers, etc. who must have the necessary contact and consultation with the settlement party in the Grand Duchy on the table from the State. Does he want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e516	The answer to that question is yes, and it is actually very important that we have that kind of contact. Some of the pension scheme can freely adopt the Stortinget, as an annual rule, earnings rules and the kind of things that we have now adopted and that we are now going to implement with our own legislative proposals coming to Stortinget. However, the size cannot be freely adopted – it has underlined both the previous and the current government – are the elements of the pension scheme that are contractual. A contractual pension is based on agreements between the social partners, where the employer pays about 75 pst. of the costs, and where the country’s contribution is a government grant, but above all it is a tax advantage, a tax exemption, and a right to earn pension credits while on the AFP. It is quite right that then we are in a more demanding situation, because then two social partners are going to negotiate a system that they finance and that is contractual, but where the state makes its contributions, and where our pension reform assumes that they are subject to change. It is a demanding exercise for everyone involved, and then it is wise to talk carefully with the parties to the agreement, so that we are many who take responsibility for the result that finally comes out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e521	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e524	Let me also start my main question by being allowed to congratulate on what I understand will be the evening sausage party, where the Prime Minister has already predicted that it will be a good mood. I have to say I was a little worried when I woke up to the capital news today early about problems in Oslo. I hope that the Prime Minister will make sure that there are alternatives to water to drinking for the members of the Government. It's just good politics we want out of the government in the future. So to what's my problem in the main question, and that goes back to the representative Højbrätten raised in his question to the Prime Minister, namely, about the Joint League's national meeting, which adopted a number of opinions on which it will be interesting to hear the Prime Minister's assessments. This is particularly true in a situation where most industries, both public and private, are struggling in their strategy to provide skilled labour. The sum of these decisions will make it more difficult. As we have discussed in the previous question, it sets out, first of all, the requirement for an AFP agreement of at least the same quality, where it includes: shall be compensated for any future living adjustments and special tax benefits that we have heard of, and which in themselves contribute to the rapid retirement of many as 62-year-olds. The Joint Undertaking also states that the Government must use the right to reserve itself against the EU Services Directive, which is clearly a contribution to reducing the supply of capacity and labour in the Norwegian economy. The last, and perhaps most perceptive, is that the Joint Union has an exceptionally strong set of rules against labour immigration in order to address the labour challenges in Norway: ‘In addition, it is immoral for us in the Kingdom of Norway to adopt a labour market policy based on bringing workers from other countries to meet our challenges.’ I don't know what expression I would use if one party – or some parties – in the Stortinget were to make such strong statements against labour immigration, but it would be interesting for me to hear the Prime Minister's view on this. Which of these requirements does the Prime Minister consider that the Government should naturally meet within the framework of professional-political cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Joint Confederation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e540	I also woke up to the news of problems in Oslo, both in terms of water quality, and in terms of the ability of citizens to agree on a rapporteur's candidate. I have now been watered by Stortinget's officers, as they say is boiled, or it's from Akershus. At least it's drinkable. In the case of the Joint Alliance, there's a couple-three thing to say. One is that they demanded the AFP that is demanding. An important message from my side to the Joint Alliance was that it had been created a picture that the state would cut in the AFP. That's not what the government's going to do. On the contrary, the state is going to go into the new AFP scheme with more money than what we committed ourselves to in the current year 1996. First, what becomes the demanding discussion is that employers must be assumed to enter into their share, and second, there will be discussion about the distribution of that pot. It's going to be a tough debate, but there we've been thinking about having a people's peace at the bottom that everyone has, regardless of the AFP, and then you get an AFP supplement on top. It's the size, the design of it, which will be a difficult and demanding debate. That debate must be conducted by the social partners, but the state has made it clear that we are going to go in with our share, i.e. a slightly larger share than what we are obliged to do under the 1996 letter. That is what I said to the Joint League. I'm on it, and it's in line with the pension agreement. So this is going to be at least the same as the AFP, because you're going to get the population of the bottom, you're going to get zero curtailment, and you're going to get an increased state contribution. But the design of the grant, the distribution of it, becomes a difficult and demanding discussion about it. In the case of immigration, I believe that the opinions of the Joint Confederation should be interpreted a little more nuanced, because what they write in the section above is: ‘Work immigration has come to be. The Joint Alliance wishes to see open borders. Our strategy against social dumping is not aimed at limiting labour migration.’ In the Joint Union, they are clear that they want labour immigration. What they are against is social dumping, and they think it is wrong to use labour immigration as a welfare strategy. There may be different opinions on this, but at least the Joint Undertaking does not say no to labour immigration. On the contrary, they say yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e554	In my last understanding, the Prime Minister does not believe that it is immoral to base the Norwegian economy on the necessary labour immigration. I believe that we will have a dramatic situation in Velferds-Norway and also in Business Norway if we do not have a labour immigration, which is of course going to take place within Norwegian laws and regulations and in a decent way and everything that we agree on in Norway. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is clarifying this, because I think we are dealing here with some of the most difficult issues we are facing in the future: getting enough labour. That's why it's a point, I think, to draw up just the sum of the decisions the Joint Alliance has made here, which help to undermine – or at least make it harder to solve – the major challenges we're facing. So at least I'm glad that the Prime Minister says so clearly that he thinks it definitely has to be moral that we allow the labour force to come to Norway on Norwegian terms and contribute to solving our challenges. I wish the Prime Minister, to put it this way, good luck in his consultations with the Joint Union in getting to what is necessary in relation to the problems of the labour force in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e561	I am in favour of labour immigration, and that is one of the reasons why I was also in favour of Norway joining the EEA Agreement. I thought you could even go even further. As far as the labour market is concerned, Norway is part of a large open European labour market. I believe that there is something historic that has happened, and that we are almost underestimating the dimensions of what has happened in terms of the fact that there are now open borders across Eastern Europe, across what had previously been the distinction between Eastern Europe and Western Europe. Labour immigration between European countries is good for several reasons. It is good for those people who get income and get income by working in Norway, income they send back to their respective countries. That's good for them, and that's good for Norway, because we're totally dependent on this workforce to create values, secure well-being, secure the economy in Norway. So it's also good for something else. I think it's good for peace, diversity, creativity, creativity, because I think people walk between countries as long as it doesn't happen under social dumping conditions. It creates more diverse and vibrant societies. I am sure that the Left and the Workers' Party have the same approach. Therefore, the EEA Agreement's ideas on the free labour market in Europe are historical and beautiful ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e576	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e579	The Prime Minister’s speech to the Joint Union has received a lot of attention in this issue. It is known that the former LO leader, Gerd-Liv Valla, had a dominant influence on the sitting government. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the relationship between the management of the trade movement and the Government and the Workers' Party is now, after we have got a new LO leader. Is it the government that decides, or is it the government that listens to that trade movement at all times?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e586	I'm proud to belong to a party that has close cooperation with employees' organisations. We have close historical relations and close historical cooperation with LO, but yesterday I visited for example. YS, which is an expression that we also have contact with other organisations. And listening, working together, having a dialogue with employees' organisations, I believe that the Workers' Party and also the Government have a policy where we are concerned about employees' interests, whether it's a good working environment, there's good pension schemes, like contractual pensions, or there's good welfare arrangements. So the Workers' Party has cooperated well with employee organisations, with the LO, with the Joint Union and with others, and we're going to do it in the continuation, to the great joy of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e591	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e594	I understand that the Joint Confederation and other trade unions are starting to become quite impatient with this government. If there is any area where the Government has broken many promises, it is in relation to business policy. The red-green parties spent almost the entire election campaign in 2005 promising a new course and a new active industrial policy. They traveled from the industrial site to the industrial site and promised, for example: new industrial power regime, and the trade movement and the Joint Union were used as a channel to promote these promises. We saw that, for example. in Hordaland, my own home country, where they visited Ålvik and promised the employees of Bjölvefoss a new industrial power regime. Now these three parties got a majority, they've been running for two years, there's not been any industrial power regime, and the jobs were flagged out to Iceland. Does the Prime Minister understand that the trade unions that are now losing their jobs lose confidence in the political system when you break promises as fundamentally as you have done in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e604	First of all, I think it's very important to be clear that it's not that we're not going to have any conversions in Norwegian industry even if we put in place an industrial power regime. We have had industrial power regimes in Norway for many years, and yet we have had significant changes in Norwegian industry. Secondly, even though we have problems in some places and in some businesses, which we have always had and will have, it is overall very good development in industry – record high production, high employment and record high investment, which is also a good thing for the future, whether it concerns solar panel production in Årdal, Kristiansand or in Grenland or production and investment in other types of industrial activity, for example. aluminium production in the Baltic Sea, major new investments. Thirdly, the fundamental challenges in terms of power are that we need more power and to strengthen the Norwegian power balance in an environmentally friendly way. As far as Hordaland is concerned, the most important thing we do there is to ensure that there is a gas power plant with a high production capacity in Mongstad, but at the same time that we spend up to DKK 1 billion on financing clean-up measures – measures to both get rid of 1 million tonnes of CO2 and develop new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e616	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e619	The Joint Union and others have also been concerned about the work line, which I also know the Prime Minister is concerned about. We might have 700,000 who are not in the world of work and who are in an age group where they might have been. So I guess we just have to recognize that there's something about this line that actually doesn't work. In 2001, the number was 45 pst. of the disabled in working life, i.e. less than half. In 2007, the number is exactly the same. There has been no improvement, despite the fact that we have a labour market that is better than ever and the possibilities should be similar better than before. At the same time, certain schemes are weakening, cutting back money from six to three months after the completion of measures. Had it been a non-socialist government that had proposed such a thing, I think the stamp had been ‘social’ or ‘double unsocial’. My question is, does the Prime Minister think that the working line works the way it should for those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e626	First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that there is such a strong connection to the working line – the idea that the most important measure to combat inequality, to combat social distress and poverty and to strengthen the Norwegian economy is the working line. That's the most important thing we do to create and share in our country. Secondly, it's probably also in this area so that the picture is a little nuanced, that it's possible to find out and point to weaknesses and things that don't evolve well, and other elements where things go in the right direction. It's true that too many people with disabilities who want to do it are not going to work. It's true that we have a lot of unsatisfied people and a lot of people outside of work. At the same time, however, it is true that we have never had more people in paid employment in Norway, that unemployment is almost halved in two years, and that the number of people with disabilities is now being reduced, among others. as a result of a historically high effort in labour market measures compared to the number of unemployed. More are at work, and fewer are unemployed – it is especially gratifying to see fewer immigrants unemployed, and the number of disabled people coming to work is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e633	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e636	The representative Sponheim's question to the Prime Minister at first lies at the intersection of what is real and right, and what is not right. What's okay is that a government has a serious and tidy relationship with all the social partners and a strong trade union movement. What is unbridled is when a trade union movement has such strength that it is the one who premises the country's policy. With regard to the question the Prime Minister was asked by the representative Sponheim, it was that the trade movement was so strong that we did not hear the Labour Party's voice in the way we hear it through the Prime Minister's mouth today – but now it is clearly and strongly said that we need free hands. Does the Prime Minister see this political dilemma of power, of being so closely linked to a strong trade movement that, at the same time, is so conscious of power that we can risk it being the one who premises even against a majority government, while what we are all served with, is that it is independent politicians, independent parties – even independent social democratic parties – who set the course for the country's policy? Does the Prime Minister see the difference between the fact that someone has a role in cooperation and the fact that they govern cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e643	I believe that we have very good experience with this cooperation. It's been criticised for years, and it's been going on for over 100 years. I believe that the cooperation between the Workers' Party and the LO in particular, but also other employee organisations, has been useful. This has given us ideas, perceptions and assessments that have been important in shaping a policy that has benefited people in Norway, especially for employees, but also for broad groups. After all, any cooperation must be based on the fact that it is equivalence, and it is. There are independent organisations that sometimes take different positions. Decisions have been taken at the Joint Union’s national meetings, which I do not necessarily agree with – this has always been the case, and this will continue to be the case. However, even if individual decisions are taken in the LO or in the Joint Alliance in which the Workers' Party disagrees, we agree on the main values – the main direction of the social development we want. That's what we've been working together for for over 100 years, and we're going to keep working on the ideas of community and justice even if we have different views on individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e648	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e651	The Prime Minister is proud, but not satisfied. It may no longer be reflected by the representatives of the Workers' Party in Stortinget. E.g.: Yesterday I registered in a United Nations notice that the representative Steinar Gullvåg was «Much tired of breaking election vows». He was directly tired of defending the government's broken election vows in Westfold. I will also come back to the fact that representatives of the transport committee at Stortinget are not very satisfied. But in one field, the Prime Minister has stated that he is both proud and satisfied, and that is the government's effort on infrastructure. We know that the Government has rejected project funding as a solution for greater expansion. We know that the Prime Minister almost humorous in this Chamber has said that project financing is the same as financing a project, and that the Government therefore has project funding. The Government has rejected any alternative funding proposed by the Progress Party, including: project finance, corridor financing and fund solutions, where we can put NOK 300 billion into an infrastructure fund for the foreseeable financing of our infrastructure. In spite of all this, the Government is increasing its demand for both rail and road investment in the budget for 2008. It says in the proposition that the Government does. Then my simple question is: is the Prime Minister now in the mind box that there might be other solutions, that the Progress Party might have some solutions that it is worth thinking about, when it comes to getting our infrastructure up to an approved level? For example, we see that just 5 pst. of our tribal roads have approved the standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e660	This government has taken action to increase appropriations to invest and operate transport systems in Norway. We've increased the appropriations for roads and for railways. The investments that have increased by 50 pst. We are now also following up the port plan, i.e. investments to promote coastal traffic. We are about $2 billion above what was the promises of the previous government in the transport plan, and that is a significant increase. Over a ten-year period, there is an additional 22 billion kroner for transportation measures in addition to what was in the proposal for a transport plan from the Bondevik II Government. It's also obvious here that even though we spend 2.2 billion more kroner and thus get more roads and more railways, we need even more. We're going to put forward a transport plan, and then we're going to see what framework and what goals we can set there. But at least we follow up what we promised the voters before the election to grant NOK 2.2 billion more to travel. One is about money, and that's where we follow up what we said. The second is about how the money is to be spent, and then I am to spend it in the most efficient way possible, have funding for whole projects and then implement those projects. It's the Minister of Transport, we're working on it, and it's very good. But when you start talking about corridor financing, fund financing and project financing, as the Sandberg representative said, there are really only three words for a way to spend more money, and that can be for you. But then it's much easier to suggest it – then you can be for or against – than to come up with all these slightly complicated systems to bypass the budget and the framework we put in the budget. I think it would have been easier for us all if we discussed how much money we're going to spend on transportation, rather than having side debates about whether we can manage to create systems to bypass the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e671	That's what the Prime Minister said now, I think it was very interesting. Then, at least, he is on a collision course with his own in the Transport Committee on the Stortinget, because in the evening post yesterday, two of the main spokesmen of the Workers' Party in transport are in charge of precisely doing what the Progress Party has said, namely going outside the ordinary budget to finance large projects. They are asking for project funding, as is done in Sweden, among others. Then my follow-up question becomes the Prime Minister: Is it that there is double communication? Are we talking here at Stortinget from the Labour Party about solutions that the Progress Party has been in for a long time, while the Government and the Prime Minister almost reject it? It might be interesting to find out whether or not to work with other solutions to finance larger projects, because in a previous Question Time, the Prime Minister invited all of them to come up with solutions — but it does not benefit as long as the funds are not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e679	I believe that the last point of Sandberg is really the important point: how much money do we think it is right to spend on transportation? This government has significantly increased the appropriations in addition to the budgets approved by the Progress Party during the previous period by the Government of Bondevik. We use significantly more on the road and rail than the previous government, but it's not that we're satisfied. Now we're looking at the possibilities to increase further. We'll get back to that in the transport plan. It is important that we have project funding in the sense that we finance the projects in a good way. But I think that someone is adding something else to the word ‘project finance’: that we are going to be able to take money out of the budget. The government has so far chosen to keep the budgets and to increase the budgets to ensure more money for transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e688	There will be four follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e691	The Prime Minister said something that I fully agree with, that it is important to focus on the right use of resources. But also in that area, this government is going in the wrong direction, because it's made up some ideological skyscrapers. At the beginning of September, when the NSB was mostly standing, there was one track going, and it was the Gjøvik track. It goes more often, and it has better quality than before, because it was exposed to competition. This government cancelled more competitive outsourcing, which could provide more frequent trains, better material and better provision for the inhabitants. But the Prime Minister has been the Council of State, and as the Council of State, he has put in governments that actually took money from county municipalities by putting those exposed to competition in the transport sector to gain more efficiency. When Stoltenberg was last Prime Minister, he was concerned about something of the same. Will the Prime Minister re-evaluate these missteps that this government is doing, by developing allergies to the launch of competition and the use of more private solutions in the transport sector as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e700	For us, it is a question of how to ensure the best offers for users of transport services and collective services. We believe that the best solutions for public transport are those that are publicly funded. However, it is up to the municipalities — most likely the county councils — to decide whether they want to use private solutions. There's a lot of county councils where the Workers' Party is in power positions, where you use private. We have private solutions for ferry connections, we have private solutions for bus connections, and we have private solutions for national tasks, for example. air traffic and freight transport by rail. The area where we think it is central to avoiding market thinking is, of course, in relation to welfare services. But within the transport services, we have a much larger mix of private and public solutions, whether we are talking about private air traffic or private bus services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e705	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e708	As far as the freight market is concerned, the railway has a high potential for further growth. That would be good for the environment, and that would be good for road safety. The large collectors will more than want to carry more goods on the road, but capacity and quality will have to be much better than today. The government has followed as far as possible what is in the national transport plan, and that is good. But there are other challenges. The capacity for rail freight is roughly fully exploited today. The Stoltenberg government is trying to create a picture that the previous government didn't bet on the railway, and that the new government is doing a huge effort, but that's probably not quite right. The Stoltenberg government continues to increase the railway appropriations that the Bondevik government started, and we are pleased about that. Is the Prime Minister comfortable with the Government's efforts to get more goods across from road to rail? What new offensive action will the Government take to resolve the capacity problems associated with rail freight?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e717	What we have to do is make sure that we invest more in the railway. We've increased the investments to the railway, and it'll make the railway better able to carry goods. Then we should look at how we can better organise the transport and rail services so that we can spend the money in the best possible way. When we present the new transport plan – it is well in 2008, if I remember correctly, at least it is in this period – we will come back to whether we should increase the rail framework further. There are many good reasons for doing so, but as responsible politicians, we need to assess the efforts in this area towards health, the environment and many other good purposes. The Christian People's Party, which has been in government, knows that there are just the difficult choices between many good, different goals that are one of the most exciting and demanding challenges of politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e722	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e725	That's exactly what politics is about: prioritizing. Then we'll probably always experience that someone wants to pull some budget rabbit out of their hat and think you can drop that job, whether there's a budget outside the budget, or there's a budget outside the country, or what it is. But I agree with the Prime Minister that politics is about priorities. If you want to travel, you have to give it priority. But it's important to set up the transport policy, modernise it so that we get the maximum out of the bet. I believe that, for example: was very important what the previous government did, separating the operating and entrepreneurship part of the Road Service and so few Mesta. So we got 850 million. kr more to go for the same money – every year and, I had almost said, forever as long as we keep such a modern grip. So now the government says no to do something similar. In reality, the government has not done anything that improves the ability to get more way and path for the money. When's it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e732	I am a little uncertain about what the representative Sponheim is now aiming for. After all, there has been a major structural change which is widely supported in the Stortinget. The railway works have been separated, the NSB has been created, and also opened up some competition for freight to private operators. There have been differing views regarding passenger transport. We do not have any plans to go further in terms of opening up competition in the rail offer. We believe that all in all there is a good balance in this now. Then we'll see if it's possible to get more money, and we're always interested in taking a debate on how to organise money use in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e739	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e743	It's not just about priority, it's about looking at the difference between investment and expenditure, and it's also about dealing with the fact that with today's rate of allocation – including what is proposed in the 2008 state budget – it can take up to 50 years before we have efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads and a normal railway that travels on normal speed. I guess that's what makes the Workers' Party's fractional leader in the Transport Committee, together with the representative from the Government Party SV, yesterday in the evening post yesterday to spend oil money on trains. I assume that they will then also open up to use oil money for roads. Can the Prime Minister find out if they're on the wrong track? Is it the case that extra oil money for trains, and also on the way outside the State budget, and the use of multi-annual project funding are still repressively cancelled by this government, which doubts that money used is expenditure and that money cannot be used for long-term infrastructure investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e750	I think you often talk a little bit past each other in these debates, because you put different things in different types of terms. So sometimes the discussion becomes a little bit less elucidating than it should be. For example, am I ready to use oil money? The answer to that question is yes. I'm a very strong fan of using oil money for the road, and I'm actually also used to spend oil money on the railways, bike paths, etc. We spend about 70 billion dollars of oil money today, and a lot of it goes into it. I've never been against it, and I'm a supporter of using oil money on my way. The question is not whether we are going to spend oil money on the road, the question is whether we are going to spend more oil money in total, and to go. Then I'm just saying it's an honest discussion. Then we can take that discussion in each budget, we invite it every time: how much oil money are we going to spend? And what are we going to apply them to? It is a normal budget debate that you can take part in, and you can have different opinions on how to give priority to the funds. That's the one. The second is multiannual project funding. I believe it is important that we ensure long-term and stable funding. If you mean 'project financing', I am in favour of project financing. But if project funding means taking money outside the budget and actually increasing the use of money, I think it's better to increase the budget – so I don't know if we agree or disagree. It's really unclear to me what we're discussing, except that I realize that someone wants more money to go. I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-17.ana.ud1641e759	The oral question time is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
