ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e22	The representative Ola Borten Moe, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e30	I am pleased to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Arne Sortevik, Hanne Dyveke Søttar and myself to ensure safe travel and restore confidence in the safety of Norwegian road tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e35	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e38	On behalf of the representatives of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Per Egil Evensen and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal to ask the Government to ensure that MS patients are offered at all times the treatment they benefit most from, including the Tysabri medicine, regardless of where in the country they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e43	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e46	It is a pleasure on behalf of the representatives Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt and myself to present a proposal for a representative to increase the grant rate for students who take more credits than normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e51	The representative of Borghild Tenden will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e54	On behalf of the representative Odd Einar Dørum and myself, I am pleased to promote a proposal for a representative to review the implementation of the security controls at airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e60	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e79	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who would like to ask questions in addition to those who have notified themselves in advance will be asked to stand up. We then start with the first main question, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e88	In Dagbladet on 20 April we could read that it was in Bali that the prime minister hatched out his climate plan, which he presented to the National Assembly of the Workers' Party. Now I don't know if the Prime Minister went directly to Bali on his private plane after being on duty, among other things. in Indonesia, or whether he took scheduled flights. I expect that he paid a climate ticket, since it was one of the New Year's greetings he had for the Norwegian people. In any case, it obviously did well for the Prime Minister to be in Bali, because through his speech to the Labour Party’s country meeting, he determined how much more effective CO2 reduction measures would be abroad — the fact that 1 billion kroner spent at home in Norway would be the same as 10–20 billion spent abroad. He also stated that there was no point in quantifying national targets. With that statement, the Prime Minister has canceled SV's self-provoking fines, which cannot be read as anything other than cost-driven projects that will be very low-billed for the Norwegian people. It is ultimately the ones that will be billed to implement inefficient CO2 reduction measures in Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is it true that he has cancelled these self-provoking fines for SV, and that this is what he himself said to the National Assembly of the Workers' Party, which is going to be the red thread of the Government's climate policy in the years to come, or will there now be negotiations in the Government that could result in the Norwegian people getting the bill through higher electricity prices, higher petrol charges, higher car charges, etc., for which we have heard that the SV's representatives are in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e105	What's happy now is that there's a very broad consensus in Norway about two things in particular. One is that Norway should do more to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. I am pleased that there is a broad political agreement that we should strengthen our current Kyoto commitment. So we're not going to stick with the targets we've had before, but we're going to have to take big ones fast. Therefore, we are not content to say that we should limit the growth in Norwegian emissions to 1 pst, as the goal was up to now, but that there is agreement that we should increase the commitment by 10 percentage points. There's a consensus that we're going to decrease by 30 pst. by 2020, and – most importantly – Norway is the first country to assume an obligation to become carbon-neutral, i.e. that there should be zero greenhouse gas emissions from Norway, either by reducing our own emissions or by financing emission reductions in other countries. It's the one that's happy, and that's good. The second thing about which there is complete agreement in the Government, and which, not least, Helen Bjørnøy has been a driver, is that, in addition to taking significant action at home, we are also going to carry out significant emission reductions in other countries. The Minister for the Environment has been concerned about it and has underlined it. And then we're going to have larger reductions. In addition, we help lift millions of people out of poverty, and we solve local environmental problems in terms of sulphur, soot and the kind of things that create major public health problems. All of this means that we in Norway will continue to have climate debate on large and small measures, but there is a broader consensus than in the long run about the headlines: that we should do more. We're going to do a lot at home, and we're going to do it a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e114	I record that the Prime Minister does not answer my questions. All he says is that we have to implement significant measures at home. It's not like cut at 10, 15, 20 or 25 pst. At home is something that the Prime Minister and Helen Bjørnøy are going to do. In that case, there's a bill you're going to send to ordinary people and businesses, unless you choose to do this in a sensible way, like for example. in the case of increased development of roads, a conversion of the car fleet, an expansion of hydropower and more environmentally friendly energy, of which Norway has a lot, and which enables us to keep electricity prices at a low level, etc. In that case, there are things that make sense to do, and where the billions can be used with wit and understanding. But if it is to understand that these significant measures to which the Prime Minister refers involve a comprehensive bill to ordinary people and businesses, it is quite different, and I think it might be time that we got it right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e119	The government has already announced significant measures at home. We're going to spend billions of dollars developing technology to clean CO2 from the Mongstad gas power plant. We are introducing Europe's strictest system of emission allowances for industry, which will lead to significant reductions. We have more than doubled the support for renewable energy, bioenergy and waterborne heat. We've increased the investments to the railway by 50 pst. and shall continue to invest in public transport and rail. We have changed the fees in an environmentally friendly direction. We introduce new regulations for housing and construction that reduce energy consumption by 25 pst. We have also called for more use of climate tickets in the use of aircraft. These are significant measures at home. The new thing is that the Progress Party is trying to say that they are for action abroad. But the Progress Party has opposed the Kyoto agreement, which is the very basis, the legislation, for instruments abroad. This is what is called the Kyoto mechanisms. The Progress Party is against the Kyoto mechanisms, but for quotas. It's impossible to have that position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e132	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e135	I will be allowed to congratulate the Prime Minister on what for us outside seems to have been a successful national meeting in the Labour Party – not least in the form of the Prime Minister coming out of the closet, the ambition, on climate issues. Most of us have spent a lot of time waiting for the Government to formulate its clear ambitions, and it is good that we have now moved on from it to moving on to active politics. But that's how it's easier to have big ambitions in the long term than in the short term. One of the things that has kind of surprised me after the national meeting is the question: was it necessary for the Prime Minister to treat the Minister for the Environment as she was treated, both in January and February? I now want to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to treat the Minister for the Environment a little bit neater. She has formulated short-term ambitions for the Government. In answer to questions from Røres Børge Burnde in the NRK, she said directly that CO2 emissions should also be reduced during this period, as the previous government raised. Will the Prime Minister stand behind that ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e145	I fully agree that it is not appropriate to have ambitions only in the long term, although it is also important – 100 pst. reduction by 2050. It's also important to do things in the short term, so do things today. Therefore, Helen Bjørnøy and I, and the entire Government, have set us behind what is a significantly more ambitious goal than that of the previous government, namely that we should not only have a target for 2020 and 2050, but we should strengthen the current objective that the Bondevik government had of plus 1 pst, that we should not increase emissions by more than 1 pst. until 2012. Now the government says we're going to sharpen it, so it's going to be minus 10 pst. in relation to the current Kyoto target, precisely because we – Helen Bjørnøy and I – fully agree that we need stronger measures in the short term. I'm glad that the Right and the other opposition parties are now following and seeing that it's not enough to do like the previous government, that's to accept plus 1 pst. We need to have reductions in the current period. It is this government that formulates it, and Helen Bjørnøy is at the head of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e151	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e154	We are pleased that the Labour Party has seen ambitious targets for climate policy. I also record that the Workers' Party is the last party, in addition to the Progress Party, which has seen them. The Christian People's Party has seen our early outings and ambitious goals. We also registered with pleasure that Helen Bjørnøy went out a few months ago and set clear targets for climate policy. I then felt the paradox that the Minister for the Environment was being corrected by the Prime Minister. So now, just a few months after, the Prime Minister actually points to the same goal, which is 30 p.m., which Helen Bjørnøy also pointed to. My question to the Prime Minister is, Will he regret the reproof of Bjørnøy? And what has changed since Bjørnøy spoke out? I also want to remind the Prime Minister that at the time he said that one could not set goals before action was in place? Are the actions now in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e161	Helen Bjørnøy, me, Kristin Halvorsen and all of them have always been completely crystal clear that we will also have targets after the current Kyoto period, that is after 2012. The Soria Moria Declaration even states that we must have numerical targets. Of course. If not, we cannot be in favour of a new Kyoto agreement in the period after 2012. We also made that clear in winter. What has now happened is that we have formulated much more ambitious goals than what the government of Hareide was a member of, ever nearer to formulating. They were satisfied with plus 1 pst. until 2012. Now Helen Bjørnøy and I and the rest of the government say we're going to cut by 10 pst. in relation to that objective. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is now obviously willing to reach out to the objectives of the Labour Party and Government in climate policy and support us in much more ambitious goals. I'm glad about that this day.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e170	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e173	Siri Kalvig with several travels now on a tour with talks about climate. It's an important project. She is afraid that she will be met with disbelief because many believe that climate change is not man-made. The other problem they can face is a notion that the changes we have to make don't have costs because we can buy allowances abroad. It is both cheaper and more efficient. Many interpret the Prime Minister as being a follower of the last view – that it is mainly abroad that we are going to do the job. Will the Prime Minister help to prepare the basis for Siri Kalvig's important tour, by making it clear that measures need to be taken in Norway that have costs and that will lead to changes? And does the Prime Minister agree that part of the national agreement for which the Left was the first party to address, must both have ambitious targets and targets for how many reductions we are going to have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e180	First of all, I think the lecture tour that Siri Kalvig and other experts are about to take on is very good. This is also why the Government has taken the initiative and is financing it through the Government's climate campaign. That Helen Bjørnøy is taking the initiative for that type of important campaigns is a new example of how she is a driver in climate policy. So the second thing is that we're going to do two things. We are going to implement significant measures at home: we are going to have Mongstad cleaning, we're going to bet on public transport, we're going to make new building regulations, and we're going to do a lot of other things. But then, in addition, we're going to do significant things out there, because it results in greater emission reductions. So we've set much stronger climate targets than the Left was in the vicinity of when they were in government. When the left was in government, you were not close to fixing numbers how much you should do at home. In the climate communication they provided, there were no such numbers. But we're going to do both. We're going to do things at home, and we're going to do a lot out there, because then we're going to have bigger reductions, we're going to have a contribution to reduce poverty in the world, and we're going to have a basis for getting more countries into a binding Kyoto agreement. So we do both parts, at home and out. That's what's right, and it's the whole government behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e189	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e192	Let me first say that it is possible for an international climate quota trade without supporting an agreement that includes less than half of the world's CO2 emissions. The Progress Party also believes that some measures can be taken — and should be taken — in Norway, but that the bulk of the work needs to be done abroad if the economy of most people, Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs is not to be hit very hard. Today we can read in today's newspapers that the government's climate prophet, Siri Kalvig, runs the SUV, and that the prime minister himself has oil fires. These are examples of two people who obviously can afford to do the necessary climate action they should have done. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the Government’s climate policy will protect ordinary employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e202	I am absolutely sure that all the Norwegian people are committed to implementing changes in lifestyles that will save the climate on Earth, and I am absolutely sure that in Norway there is a broad consensus that we should also do things about living a little differently to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But that's what the government's going to do. Among other things, we must bet massively on public transport so that more people can travel by train, T-Bahn and bus. The Progress Party has been opposed to public transport. We are going to adopt new rules that make new dwellings and construction require less energy. This reduces emissions. And we're going to make it cheaper to drive environmentally friendly cars and more expensive to drive environmentally hostile cars. This means that there will be a different way of life, but it means that people will still have a good life, but more environmentally friendly life. It is fully possible to have a good purchasing power development and a good life and yet contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e207	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e210	Today, there is a new interest rate meeting at the Bank of Norway. Today, both from business and from many individuals, concerns are expressed about how the Norwegian economy is now showing all the signs of danger in relation to overheating and that interest rates can increase in a way that could affect business, businesses and jobs as well as not least Norwegian families. If the Norwegian Bank's current interest calculations fail, this government will have increased borrowing costs of NOK 32 000 for a family of SEK 1.5 million. kr in loans. I find it worrying that it seems that the Prime Minister has forgotten what he himself was exponent for when he was in opposition. In 2002, he stated that less money had to be spent on the government budget, so that there would be lower interest rates, lower dollar rates and safer jobs. Today, both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister argue that economic policy does not matter how interest rate developments are, but it does. My challenge to the Government and the Prime Minister is: How will the concern that young people in the start-up phase pay more and more for their mortgages, and the fear that Norwegian businesses will once again start looking at placements and relocation abroad, be taken into account in the government's own policies, so that the growth of public expenditure is now limited, that action will be taken in relation to the unemployment that is now working, to ensure that people are stimulated to save and not to consumers – so give the opposite signals of what the Government has so far given in economic policy? Will the Government give the signals now and provide a policy that contributes to lower interest rates, not higher interest rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e220	Firstly, I would like to stress that there is always reason to follow closely the development of interest rates, and that the Government is going to pursue a policy that helps us not to get an unnecessary increase in interest rates. But I would also like to stress that there are many things that are now going very well in the Norwegian economy. Unemployment has fallen sharply – 50 00 fewer unemployed in a short time. There has been a strong growth in employment – 70,000 more jobs. Never before have more people been in paid employment in Norway than today. It is a new record, and thus also a new record in value creation. Norwegian economy is doing well both in terms of employment and in terms of value added. In addition, the Government has managed to find money for, for example: a significant commitment to care for the elderly, school, kindergarten and other important issues in public budgets. The Bank of Norway announced before the 2005 elections, in the spring of 2005, that it had to count on an increase in interest rates, an interest rate path that would bring interest rates back to what they called a more normal level. That is what the Bank of Norway has now largely followed. Interest rates have been adjusted, as the Bank of Norway announced in spring 2005 – before the elections, before the new government. The new government has conducted a responsible budgetary policy. We have not crossed the rule of action for the use of oil money. While the previous government used significantly more, we have adhered to the rule of action. So I think we have a responsible economic policy. It provides high employment, a lot of money for well-being, school, work and care for the elderly, and it provides responsible economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e230	When things go well in the economy, it is extremely important that politicians control economic policy so that it goes well, so that the economy does not crash. Therefore, I would have thought that the Workers' Party would adapt the use of money and instruments to not overheat, not make sure that everything went even faster. But that's the opposite that's happened. This government has provided a budget in which it increases its activity in the economy and is not only neutral in relation to it. It helps to push interest even more. In addition, I believe that the Prime Minister, if he had checked what has been said in the Question Time, would have seen that the Right for a year has challenged the Government for concrete, rapid action that can help more people get into the workforce, either through simplified processes of labour immigration or through more hard and active measures to get people out of the social security system. None of the measures promoted by the Government operates in the short term. What will the Government do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e237	We do a lot of things to help keep interest rates under control and have a responsible development in the Norwegian economy. Let me mention three of the most important. One thing we do is we conduct a responsible budgetary policy. We don't spend more money than the Right and the bourgeois parties add up, but we spend the money differently by instead of spending billions of dollars on tax bills, they spend money on school, old age care and kindergartens. The second is that we have income policy cooperation with the social partners that contributes to responsible wage settlement. The third is that we are contributing to the creation of new labour force, and when we now set employment records – 70,000 more at work – it shows that we are also pursuing an economic policy in the short term, which means that many more people are coming to work. These include: on what we are doing now to focus on labour market measures to get those who are in the job queue into work – build bridges into the labour market. It's about what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen does in relation to qualifying long-term social welfare recipients, and it's about what we do in terms of retirement, which works in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e242	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e245	According to estimates by the Statistical Central Bureau, the 2007 Progress Party's alternative government budget will lead to less inflation and therefore lower interest rates than the Government's own budget. This conclusion did not come as a surprise to us in the Progress Party, but it brought great attention to other political camps – and not least to the people who are away in the press. The conclusions of the SSB clearly show that cutbacks in public administration and bureaucracy and the transfer of these resources to the private sector will be an effective tool to keep interest rates low. Does the prime minister share the view that cuts in public administration will dampen inflationary pressures and lead to lower interest rates? In that case, will the Prime Minister in future consider providing budgets where such cuts occur, so that further interest increases can be avoided? Or will the Prime Minister continue to provide budgets containing increased expenditure on bureaucracy and public administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e252	The government will continue to provide the state budget where we receive thousands of new annual work in the care of the elderly, people who can provide care and care for the elderly who need it. We're going to continue to provide budgets where municipalities get more money for, among other things. cleaning up school buildings and recruiting 500 new teachers at school, which we have achieved after this government took over. We're going to provide budgets that allow us to finance the expansion of kindergartens, or we're going to provide budgets that make us, as the first government in very many years, comply with road development plans and railway investment plans. But we're going to do it within the responsible framework. The Statistical Centre has pointed out the importance of pursuing a tight economic policy in order to avoid interest rate increases. It has, among other things, Eating the Cappel done in your own interviews. There is therefore no doubt that this government is pursuing a responsible economic policy. But within those frameworks, we say no to social tax reliefs such as: The advancement party has been in favour, and then we spend that money on work, on welfare, on care for the elderly, on schools and kindergartens. It is a social and good policy we stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e259	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e262	In fact, when Stoltenberg describes the low unemployment rate and the high level of employment, it sounds as if he is pleased with the good economic policy that the previous government led and that gives this government unique opportunities, among other things. in the way he himself described the situation. So to something that I think the Prime Minister will recognize: The government must take responsibility. They can't sit still and look at the high interest rates. They have a budgetary policy on autopilot and do not take into account that in today's situation less money should be used, no more. This was said by Stoltenberg in 2002. If some people get right, we're now getting a level of interest approaching that rate when Stoltenberg made his statements. It has consequences not least for those who have high mortgages. So my question is: if the Prime Minister believes the same thing today as in 2002 about the relationship between budgetary policy and interest rates, what will be the consequence for the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e275	I stand by every word that the Government must take responsibility for economic policy and for the development of interest rates. That is why this government is also pursuing a responsible budgetary policy. We spend no more money than for example. The Christian People's Party and the bourgeois parties had added up, but unlike what the Bondevik government did in the last period, we don't spend money on tax havens. We have more money to pay for the care of the elderly and the school. The second thing we do is we have income policy cooperation with the parties, which means that we get responsible pay settlements. The third thing we do is to pursue a labour market policy that means that we are generating more labour and thus helping to increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy and helping to dampen the pressure on interest rates. And then I remember that over the years we've had unusually low interest rates. Norway’s Bank announced before the government change in winter/spring 2005, that it had to be assumed that interest rates would move upwards towards a more normal level. And you've basically followed the interest path that was set before the government change, so it's hard for this government to take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e286	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e289	There's nothing that redistributes so unsocially in a society like high interest rates. When Stoltenberg was Prime Minister the last time, interest rose a lot. The central bank manager said in his speech just after that, in 2002, that the Norwegian economy was in bad shape. Then we've had a government in the interim, which the Prime Minister wants to say a lot about, but no one can argue that interest rates fell significantly during the period and have been record low, as the Prime Minister said right now. Now we're in a situation where interest rates are rising again. Much indicates that we are in a steeper interest rate range than previously foreseen, and the interest rate may be very high during this government period for Prime Minister Stoltenberg. Is it a coincidence?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e299	We are pursuing an economic policy that ensures that we follow the guidelines for the use of oil money to which both the previous and the current government belong. We can stay within those limits. The previous government failed to stay within them and was for long periods of time. The second is that Norway’s Bank announced while Sponheim was in government, that it would increase interest rates to a more normal level, and that it has mainly followed the plans and the interest path that were announced while Sponheim was in government. We do several things to contribute to the good development of the Norwegian economy: responsible budgetary policy, income policy cooperation with the social partners and an active policy to get more people out of work – both to get more Norwegians out of work and by facilitating people, among others. from the new Member States of the European Union to Norway and get a job. We say yes to labour immigration, but no to social dumping, and are proud of what we have achieved in terms of both labour immigration, employment and reduced unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e308	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e311	First of all, only one case information: the previous government did not ‘delete’ itself within the framework of the rule of action. We're going to let something out of the way. If the Prime Minister had read the position on the rule of action, as the Stortinge treated in 2001, he would have seen that it is explicitly stated that in times of recession one should be able to do something about it, and in times of upsurge one should be able to do something about it. So the Prime Minister's reasoning is the opposite. In 2002, ahead of the 2003 budget, the Prime Minister felt that it was important to be under the rule of action. Now, the government's taking over, in rising times. It does not harmonize with the interpretation of the rule of action, as Stortinget has established it. But let me now be reconciled and say that the Right agrees with the Government in very much of the long-term measures in relation to the labour market, not least the pension reform. However, my criticism is that the government is not using measures to stimulate access to labour today, and is voting down all the proposals that have been raised in the Stortningen in this area – I could list them, but time does not allow it. I can say that the main problem today is not that we have high employment. It all rejoices, and there we have had a continuous increase for many years. But our main problem today is as the finance minister, that is, the current one, has described, labour shortages, and the government is not doing anything to increase labour supply sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e318	The government is doing things that work both in the short and long term. In the long term, – as the representative Foss says – it is correct, among other things. pension reform is crucial. In the short term, inter alia: such things as the record development of kindergartens make it easier for more women to go to paid work outside the home. The NAV reform, which is now being implemented, which brings together employment offices and social security offices, is a major reform – the largest administrative reform that has been carried out for many years – to help more people get into work. The qualification programmes for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance now being implemented are also measures to get more people to work. The labour market measures for which this government has invested and is in place are also measures that help more people to get into work. We have also facilitated labour immigration. We have said no to social dumping but have facilitated labour immigration, which also contributes to increased access to labour. So we do a lot to get more people to work. We are setting a new record in growth in employment, and that also indicates that we have done quite well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e327	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e330	In a party leader debate in the previous election campaign, the party leader Jens Stoltenberg stated that it should not be given a crown in tax bills until it shines with Norwegian elderly care. But it wasn't that long before the red-greens had entered the offices, the first budget had been added, and the first crown in the tax bill was also given. The skin in the care unit became a message with a lot of words and no action. When the Christian People's Party invited to cooperate, and the Prime Minister praised Sunday night at the NRK and said yes to such cooperation, probably the Christian People's Party meant more than being part of a few words. We want to provide security for old age, and then action is needed, and money is needed. That's why this is one of the main themes that the Christian People's Party is going to discuss at its national meeting for the weekend. ‘Elderly care is a risk area’, says assistant county doctor in Oslo and Akershus after a screening of hospitals in the two counties. That's a description that we recognize from several places in the country. The threshold for getting a place in a nursing home is rising, and older people living at home are getting sicker and sicker, without getting the care they need at home. It can't be like that, and it shouldn't be like that. The Christian People's Party agrees that strengthening the economy of municipalities is important. We have given tribute to the Government for what has been done in that area, but I also hope that the Prime Minister will go a little bit more into the question than he does by making some of the rules we have heard in this questioning. It is now approaching choices again, and it is expected that new commitments will be made to care for the elderly. So my simple question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister now believe that it is a matter of Norwegian care for the elderly, and when can we expect it to be a matter of care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e339	Both in terms of care for the elderly and in terms of tax policy, the government has done exactly what it promised, and what I, among other things. said before the election. We have increased the taxes by approximately NOK 13 billion compared to the level of the Bondevik government up to 2006, we have brought it back to level 2004, just as we said. Then we have an extra NOK 13 billion, as for example. This means that we can have a massive commitment to care for the elderly by strengthening the municipal economy significantly more than the Bondevik government has ever been in the vicinity of. Then we have made it possible for municipalities to hire more people in the care of the elderly. We are on track for 10,000 new annual work in the care of the elderly by 2009, as we promised. Only last year there were 3,900 new annual works in the care of the elderly. It's a new record, so we're on track to the 10,000 target over the period. We come with grants for the development of new nursing homes, we have put money on the table for our own dementia level, and we have announced that we will make further efforts to help all the elderly who need care and who have dementia. We've invested in competence, 152 million. Dr for skills-enhancing measures, and warned that we would introduce further measures to increase the competence of the care services of the elderly. We focus on culture and experiences, the cultural walking stick, which is a contribution to increasing the quality of care for the elderly by increasing the number of experiences, offers, content offers, and older people. So we're doing well, but of course we're not in the goal, and it doesn't shine with the care of the elderly. That's why the Workers' Party is still opposed to reducing taxes, as the Bondevik government provided, and so we're still happy that we have 13 billion dollars more in tax revenue than the Bondevik government provided, so that we, among other things. can continue to invest significantly more in care for the elderly than the Christian People's Party was ever able to when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e354	The Prime Minister here mentions a number of measures that you want to take. I have to admit that there were many employees, there were many relatives, there were many municipalities and many in the Christian People's Party who had high expectations of what the Government was going to do. We're dealing with the care report here in Stortinget. It created many expectations for new content to be implemented by the municipalities, but it was also completely out of the question that the State should enter into the obligation. When it came to that, the government's parties jumped off to be in a split layer. My fear is that once again we are adding that we are creating expectations at the central level – and there the government has been good – and you are creating expectations about what the care of the elderly should be, but we are once again saying that it is the municipalities that are going to do it. We read and hear daily about challenges in the care of the elderly, so that I believe that for those who are currently struggling to find a good and safe offer for their elderly, it does not help the challenge with the increased funds. Will these expectations now be followed up in a split layer between the State and the municipalities, or have the municipalities got what they should have, and should they have done this on their own?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e361	The most obligating thing we can do is follow up on the state budgets. We're warning that we're doing in the state budget for the fall, and we already did that in the state budget for this year. The great thing now is that when the municipalities are able to do so, they pay for the care of the elderly. They have been significantly increased, and therefore they have provided 3,900 more annual work in the care of the elderly only in 2006, i.e. a larger increase than the Bondevik government was ever near. And what's special about the 3,000 new year's work, what makes it extra good, is that it's qualified staff. It was uncertain whether it would be the case, but it is. The second is that the number of elderly people doesn't grow, so now that we get more hands in the care of the elderly, it's an expression that we get more quality, more proximity than we had before. We're not in the target, but we're on track to achieve the goals we've set ourselves in the care of the elderly. Among other things, we do. because we got a new government, which said no to tax relief and yes to spending money on the care of the elderly instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e366	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e369	The Prime Minister here claims that the development of care for the elderly is on track, but I just have to say that a very slow rate of development has been introduced. There are large variations between municipalities related to the threshold for getting a sick home, and in many municipalities you have to wait a very long time in order to get such a place. My question to the Prime Minister is this: what will be done in terms of earmarking funds for new health homes? Because it is quite obvious that there are health places where there is now a great need, not other places of care. The government says in the care notification, which we have just addressed, that a new grant will be introduced. The amount of the grant you know nothing about, you don't know anything about how to use it. My question, as I said, to the Prime Minister, is: will you now make sure that funds are earmarked for the development of hospitalization sites and not put it as round as you did in the care notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e377	Firstly, it is important to establish that when we have increased the free income of municipalities, the municipalities have chosen to spend a lot of that money on care for the elderly. We see that when the municipalities get more money, even when they are not earmarked, they spend money where there are major challenges. In many municipalities, care for the elderly is provided, and then they spend money on care for the elderly. That's why we're setting a new record in the number of new employees in the care of the elderly, 3,900 in one year, and that in a year when the number of older people is not increasing. That number is pretty stable, and that means it's going to be more quality. But we're not on target. There are major shortcomings, and we are impatient, because care for the elderly is not good enough in many municipalities. That's why we're introducing an extra earmarked grant. The size of it, the device on it, we'll, as I said before, come back to the state budget. That's what the obligating document Stortinget deals with for that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e382	In the comments in the statement on the care policy, the government parties state that a Swedish study shows ‘that choosing an alternative man with whom the customer is not satisfied is not, in practice, an action option in the care of the elderly because the elderly are unable to use their freedom of choice’. If you ask the users themselves, they have a different opinion. Evaluation of free user choice schemes in Bærum and Nordstrand shows that 70 pst. by older people appreciate the possibility of choosing as a value in itself. Those who take advantage of the option to choose home help are the most satisfied users. The right believes that the older ones are old enough to choose for themselves. The working party, on the other hand, believes that the elderly do not know their own best. In Oslo, many users are now very concerned that the Workers' Party, if they get in position – which we hope they don't – will remove that scheme after the election. Will the Prime Minister deprive older people of the right to choose home help and nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e387	The main prerequisite for freedom of choice, of which I am a member, is that there is enough offer. The problem today is that very many people who want an offer do not get an offer. Choosing which nursing home you don't have room for is not a real freedom of choice. We want real freedom of choice, and then we have to have enough. This is why the most important reform we are now making for freedom of choice, a massive increase in the commitment to care for the elderly, making it a better offer. We are not against freedom of choice. What we are against is commercialization, privatisation of the care of the elderly. We don't think the market can clean up to get an equivalent offer for everyone. We know, for example. that very many of the elderly have dementia problems and are in a vulnerable position, and therefore we want to strengthen the offers, give them freedom of choice, but at the same time ensure that there is no commercialisation and the market that exists in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e394	The fact that it is going to shine out of old age care, as the Prime Minister has said, is a vision that the Left is so absolutely capable of. But it's unfortunately long before the vision can become real. Now I'm almost 60 years old, so when I need it, I might see that it's skin. Good health in older people is very important for a worthy old age. The medical supply of the elderly therefore needs to be of high priority. Public medical services do not include dental treatment for elderly people living at home. Minimum pensioners and animal dental treatment are bad for each other. The result is often that the dental status of the elderly is very poor, and this is really an unworthy situation for many. The left wants all minimum pensioners to receive free dental treatment. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Government go in to cover the necessary dental treatment for all minimum pensioners and thus contribute to a more valuable age for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e403	We are committed to strengthening the provision of dental care to the population and, in particular, to those with low incomes, such as alcohol and alcohol. minimum pensioners. We have agreed to extend some of the system of free dental services, and the National Assembly of the Workers Party has also asked for its own dental reform. How far we're going to go, and how fast we can get started, I don't dare say anything quite certain about, but that we're busy looking at how we can better offer within dental care, is obvious. Part of it is to strengthen the care of the elderly with new annual work and more money to help the elderly also with regard to dental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e408	One of the main challenges of care for the elderly in the years to come will be the lack of health professionals. The Christian People's Party believes that the import of health professionals from poor countries is a poor strategy to meet this challenge. We believe in reinforced prevention, so that older people can maintain their physical and mental health for a long time. The Elder Centres are a good venue to get this done. They may provide outreach services to older people living in isolation. They have varied offers – everything from food serving to great cultural offerings. Many healthy older users and have the benefit and joy of the elderly centres. The Christian People's Party wants an incentive grant to the elderly centres. Does the Prime Minister support such a prevention strategy that will also address the need for more staff in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e413	I'm a member of the seniority centers. I mean, they're very good. At the same time, I am, like the Christian People's Party, who stressed this very strongly, among other things. in the context of the regional notification, for local self-government. I trust that when the municipalities get more money, they bet, among other things. in the elderly. We've seen that in 2006. At that time the municipalities received substantial increases in income, and there was a significant increase in the effort towards the elderly. The key to ensuring nursing homes, nursing homes and old people's centres is to ensure that we have enough money in common, in the municipal register to provide this type of service to the elderly. That's what this government has done. This government intends to continue, and then I'm sure there will be many elderly people around Norway, because we're not spending money on tax havens, but on the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e418	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e421	I want to return to climate policy after the National Labour Party meeting. It may be tempting to start by rewriting Alexander Kielland a little bit and saying, "You're late, skipper Worse," but you're coming well. The fact that the Prime Minister has now contributed to putting the debate on climate goals behind him and threw himself at the next stage, perhaps a more important stage, on how to achieve the climate goals, I think of it as the important thing. It is an important contribution the Prime Minister has made – and all credit for it. But now we have a job to do together – maybe there are questions about who. That's, as I see it, essentially two main strategies you can choose when you have the goal clear. One is that one can choose to continue to be the problem — a fossil society that meets its international obligations by purchasing reductions outside — or one can choose to become part of the climate solution by being at home, by using technological opportunities, by making changes in all conceivable areas of society that have consequences for the climate, and thus become part of the solution. We can use the money to buy ourselves out. We can use the wealth of money to become part of the solution and show a way towards being a low-carbon society. I don't think the Prime Minister stands for one thing here, that this is just to be done. I have learned that his speech to the national meeting was nuanced, that he stressed that something should be done here on both fronts. I am startled by the view that the Progress Party has shown so far in this debate, by calling it doing something at home for self-provoking fines. For me, it's an offensive strategy to convert Norway into a modern society that's great to live in and apply new technology, take advantage of the opportunities of new businesses and do something with our everyday lives that's good for all of us. Can the Prime Minister, since there is some ambiguity about how he emphasises these two different strategies – I think I have to be able to say that after joining all the media after the National Labour Party meeting – say something about which of these strategies he himself has the sense of and wants to go along with?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e432	I believe that we should make significant efforts in Norway to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and I believe that we should make significant efforts through action in other countries. I think there's no contradiction between that. I believe, on the contrary, that we spend money in other countries, we also get technology developments that we can take home and use in Norway, and we are helping to increase the price of emission allowances. The more expensive the emission allowances are, the more measures will be implemented in Norway, so there is no contradiction between doing a lot at home and doing a lot at home. On the contrary, it stimulates each other. Otherwise, I am glad that it now appears that the Left is in the process of reaching the same ambitious goals as the Labour Party and the Government, for until the National Labour Party meeting, the Left has been in the process of increasing our emissions by one percentage point until 2012. Now it seems that the Left will go as far as the Workers' Party and overfill the Kyoto Agreement and reduce emissions by 10 pst. I am pleased that the Left has now chosen to have the same objectives in environmental policy as the Workers' Party and the Government. I am also pleased that the Left seems to join the second ambitious goal we are setting, namely to be carbon-neutral by 2050 – that Norway will contribute zero emissions in total by 2050, partly through reductions in Norway and partly through reductions in other countries. So it's great that the Left comes and sets on the environment and eventually formulates as ambitious goals as the Government. That is why there is also a basis for cooperation, and that cooperation will be about actions both outdoors and at home. I have great faith that, by using CO2 cleaning, we can create a sustainable, environmentally friendly energy supply here in the country. I have great faith that by making new building regulations we are going to develop a technology that will make buildings require less energy. I have great faith that by investing in public transport, we can change the pattern of transport. And I have great faith that we can achieve a lot both at home and outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e446	I generally have a great sense of good rhetorical practice. I don't think the Prime Minister has been at his best today. First of all, this plus 1 pst. and the objectives of the Left and the objectives of the Bondevik Government. Plus one pst. The 1990 level is, as far as I know, the Kyoto obligation Norway has and is also supported by the then representative Jens Stoltenberg. So it's great if we can deliver more – it's a little cheap if we just trade and switch on a little more, it gets to be with all the money we have – it's very good and will of course get support. But the commitments are there, and it is clear that the previous government – if it is the one that this questioning strategy is to be primarily about, as it appears – got to a reduction in its four-year period. That's a challenge for the Prime Minister. I want to say something in relation to my main question about doing something abroad versus doing things at home. There is no contradiction, says the Prime Minister. Yes, he's going to get support for doing things outside, but the point is that we can, as some argue for, be so busy doing things out there that it gets in the way that we do the necessary things at home. That's what has to be the important thing. It's really good to do things outside, but the crucial thing is that we become part of the solution at home and don't continue to be the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e456	We're going to do a lot at home, and I mentioned a lot of measures in my previous answer. But let me also explain why it's important that we do significantly outside. There are at least four reasons for that. One is that we can then set ourselves a lot more daring, greater objectives of climate change reduction. We're getting bigger cut by doing more out there, because there we get larger reductions for the same amount of effort. The second is that we are fighting poverty. If we are to bring down emissions in countries like India, China and Brazil, we must transfer technology, competence and capital. It will also promote economic development in these countries and contribute to solving our other major problem today, namely the poverty problem in developing countries. The third is that we are laying the groundwork for developing countries to join more obligating Kyoto agreements if we make it clear that the rich world is willing to pay large parts of that bill. So we get a better deal if we pay. The fourth is that we are solving major local environmental problems, for example. in Beijing, where sulphur and soot are a major problem, and which we also reduce. So there's good reason to do things both at home and outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e469	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e472	The Prime Minister falsely accuses the Advance Party of not having an environmental policy, because we have allowed ourselves to criticise the Kyoto agreement. Does this mean that the Prime Minister also believes that SV does not have a defence policy, because they want Norway to leave NATO? Does this mean that the Prime Minister believes that the SV and the Central Party have no foreign policy, because in their time they voted against the EEA Agreement? Does this mean that the Prime Minister believes that the SV, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party do not have a justice and security policy because they would not notify Norway into Schengen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e477	I disagree with SV when they're about to report Norway out of NATO. That's why we negotiated it in place in Soria Moria. So the government is for Norway to be in NATO. That is why the Government has a good policy in this area. This also applies in relation to, for example: So the EEA, where we think it's right to have the EEA, and that's why we got it in place at Soria Moria. I would also like to add that it is not just that the Progress Party criticises the Kyoto agreement. They've been against it all the way. As late as when we ratified, approved, the Kyoto agreement in Stortingen a few years ago, the Progress Party voted against, on the grounds that there was not a good enough scientific basis for implementing this kind of action against climate problems. The Progress Party is opposed to the two pillars of any climate policy: they do not think the scientific basis is good enough and they are voting against the Kyoto agreement. And they called them the measures the Workers' Party and other parties agreed to, too hastily, that we act rashly when we take action against the greenhouse effect. I am proud of the measures we have implemented, and I think it is a problem for the Progress Party that they are against the Kyoto Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e490	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e493	The Prime Minister has a tendency to answer other things than what he is asked for. I therefore intend to repeat very slowly and very calmly what I asked follow-up questions about during the first main question. Is it the case that the Prime Minister agrees with Minister Bjørnøy that Norway’s – not the developing countries, but Norway’s – CO2 emissions will be lower in 2009, when this government goes off, than they were in 2005, when it joined? The voters can actually measure the government by that. Will the Prime Minister be completely open and honest and support his Minister for the Protection of the Environment in this by confirming that he agrees with that ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e503	Helen Bjørnøy and I agree on the important issues of climate policy, that we should have three ambitious goals with commitments that Norway will meet. One is that we should overcomply with the Kyoto agreement. The second is that we're going to cut by 30 pst. By 2020, global emissions would be cut either by reductions in Norway or by reductions in other countries. The third is that we're going to be carbon neutral. contribute with zero emissions, 100 pst. reduction through reductions in Norway and in other countries, by 2050. Then we have constantly made it clear that there should be a combination of significant actions at home and outside, and we have announced that there will be a big deal of concrete action. But the important frames, dimensions and major sizes are in place, and of course the government is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e510	I find that the answer was no. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e515	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e518	I note that the Prime Minister needs to stress that he and the Minister for the Environment are some. I'm glad. But when he points out that the previous government does not set a target, I will show that we put down a low-emission selection that would review this and provide a professional basis for us to set goals. Until Stoltenberg himself was appointed Prime Minister, that selection was not completed. I thought it was a paradox that the Prime Minister is now calling for measures from the previous government, when he just said a few months ago that we should not set targets until we had the measures in place. My question to the Prime Minister is that in a radio debate today he said that we need international, ambitious climate agreements – I agree with that – and then he pointed to the Kyoto agreement. Does the Prime Minister think that the Kyoto agreement is an ambitious international agreement, when we know that the Kyoto agreement will only contribute to 5 pst. reduction and that only stabilising the level and achieving a change of minus 2 degrees will require reductions of up to 50 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e525	Only in terms of targets. The most important thing to note today in the Storting is that there is broad support for the three objectives the Government has formulated on the over-fulfilment of the Kyoto Agreement, of 30 p.m. reduction in 2020 and 100 pst. reduction by 2050. That's very nice. It's very good for the climate, but I don't think it's so important for the climate that we continue the discussion about who said what first in these debates. We've all been for goals, and now the measures are coming. That's very good. The second is that the Kyoto agreement is the best deal we could get. We were unable to reach a better agreement. But it is not good enough, so the successor must be better, have stronger and larger emission obligations. That's one of the reasons why I think it's important that we're willing to spend money in China, India and Brazil. China, India and Brazil will never sign an agreement on concrete emission reductions for these countries unless the rich world takes most of that bill. They feel it is unfair that they should bear the burden of an environmental problem that the rich world has created by releasing greenhouse gases since the industrial revolution. Therefore, the only way to reach an ambitious climate agreement is to make the rich world pay for action in the poor world. That was also my message at the National Labour Party meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e535	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e538	After the Prime Minister's national meeting, I have doubts about what we should give the most weight – an hour of green eloquence, or 40 years of red force socialism. The fact that, in addition to the Advance Party, the LO leadership cheered the most after the speech gives cause for concern. I note today that the Prime Minister, with much greater enthusiasm, is talking about the measures out there than about the great opportunities offered by home conversions. The low-emission sample, which the previous government put down, shows the path from fossil communities to environmental communities. They refer to measures that will provide new jobs and opportunities. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree that the position of the Lower Emissions Committee, which shows 2/3 cuts in greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, should be part of a national settlement, so that a view of the migrations and opportunities that are national is equal to that of the job we are going to do internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e545	I believe that 2/3-cut is too ambitious. I believe Norway is going to cut 100 pst., that we're going to be carbon neutral. That we're going to talk about 50-80 pst. 2/3, is too bad. I believe that Norway should undertake an obligation to provide for reductions in Norway or in other countries equivalent to 100 pst. of our emissions. For the world’s climate, it does not matter where the emission reductions take place. The decisive thing is how big they are. And the government has put forward a plan for far greater emission reductions than that, among other things. Kvassheim has previously been close to proposing. Then we have to implement significant measures at home. We spend billions of dollars on developing a technology that allows us to clean CO2 from gas power in a good and hopefully profitable way. It is a huge project that can reduce emissions in Norway, but it is more important that we succeed in this technology, we can also achieve large reductions in emissions from coal-fired power stations in many other countries. At home and out goes hand in hand. There's no contradiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e555	Let's go to the last main question. The President will not be opening up follow-up questions beyond the supplementary question to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e558	Much of the 2005 election campaign was about the Union case and job closure. Then the red-green politicians were out with a huge commitment, went to the torch and promised a new industrial policy and an active ownership. What has been seen so far from that policy is that one Council of State has had to go, and that there has been a strong internal criticism of the government's lack of ownership policy, led in particular by the representative Jan Bøhler. A ownership message has come without content, a door factory is planned in Årdal, and the toolbox has been renamed a jewelry box. What we see in these days is that at Borealis, hundreds of jobs disappear. Today, Hydro Polymers in Porsground is in play. There is a danger that they may be sold and purchased by foreign interests and that it will be one of 69 production sites. The employees are very concerned about their jobs, and I understand that. In the election campaign, it was promised that the toolbox would be filled up. Such as the Union case should never happen again. What has the Government done to prevent a new Union closure?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e569	The main objective of success in industrial policy is whether we succeed in securing jobs and ensuring value creation. Now it's like we have more work than ever. We have record growth in the number of employees. We have the lowest unemployment rate in very many years. We have very high investment in industry, and it is an expression that many want to invest in industrial and industrial development here in the country. We have the largest value creation ever measured. We have had a good economic development. So with the basic objectives of industrial policy – work, value creation and low unemployment – we have succeeded. We have e.g. succeeded in Årdal – not only the State, but the State in a partnership with private people. Pollutant activities are now being shut down in Årdal. I've been for the whole time. Furthermore, we have contributed to the creation of new jobs, including: at a door factory, but also by the fact that solar cell production is now coming to Årdal. It shows that it is fully possible to reconcile the environment with work by investing in that type of enterprise. We have gone into and contributed to restructuring in many other places. We're going to have conversion, and we're going to have closures of businesses in the future as well. But it is vital that we ensure new jobs, new jobs for those who lose their jobs, and this government has succeeded – not alone, but in a partnership and in cooperation with private companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e578	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. For the Progress Party, it is important to take care of the jobs you already have today. I think it's a little bad that the government doesn't have that focus, that you kind of push in front of you that there's a lot more work going on today than it's been before. I think that only confirms the passive ownership policy this government is in the process of implementing. So in Hydro Polymers, 1,200 jobs are at risk. I could imagine asking the question: If the Prime Minister receives an invitation from the employees there to go to the torch to save the jobs, will the Prime Minister then go on a train? Will the Prime Minister use his ownership through Norsk Hydro to ensure that Hydro Polymers remains in Norwegian hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e585	The President assumes that the Prime Minister is not unknown about going on trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e588	I know that the Minister of Industry is in contact with, among others. Hydro to look at the issues that are now up in the media, among other things. Hydro Polymers, but also others, to help secure jobs in Norway and to help ensure good industrial solutions. We've always been clear that we need to make changes. We're going to have it in the future too. However, we are committed to securing jobs in Norway, and this government has succeeded – better than many other governments before, because unemployment is lower and employment is higher than in many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-25.ana.ud2530e593	So the oral question time is over. Would you like a word before the meeting is deleted? - The meeting has been cancelled.
