ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e49	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the meeting alternate representative of the More and Romsdal County, Oddbjørn Vatne, as well as from other alternates, Jenny Klinge, there are applications to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Eli Sollied Överaa, from 6 November until further notice, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The third alternate, Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e78	Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland is present and will take the seat. Three permit applications are available: From the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr from 6 November onwards and until further notice.From the Group of the Workers' Party on sick leave for the representative Silvia K. Kosmo from 6 November onwards and until further noticeFrom the Working Party on welfare leave for the representative Per Rune Henriksen from 6 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Tove NyhusFor Hordaland County: Tove Linnea BrandvikFor Vestfold County: Tom Stroemstad Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e119	Tove Nyhus, Tove Linnea Brandvik and Tom Stroemstad Olsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e125	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen and Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen and Solvency Horne are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortingets this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e135	From the Prime Minister's office there are two letters to Stortinget: The first letter dated 26 October 2007 reads: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 26 October 2007 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is hereby decided:State Secretary Berit Oskal Eira is hereby dismissed from office as State Secretary to the Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.Assisting Chief of Staff Raimo Valle is hereby appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen." The second letter, dated 2 November 2007, reads: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 2 November 2007 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is hereby determined: County Council Janne Sjelmo Nordås is hereby appointed State Secretary to the Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa Government Council.’ The letters referred to shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e165	A key idea of the EEA Agreement is that it should ensure as much a level playing field as possible for trade and economic relations in Europe. Through this framework, Norwegian enterprises and industries, with some known exceptions, have ensured predictability and conditions in line with business life in other countries in the internal market. The agreement also ensured rights and obligations for citizens in the event of cross-border movements. Over our 14 years in the EEA, cooperation has largely proved predictable and long-term. An ongoing challenge is the ability of the agreement to meet challenges and emerging areas of cooperation. In the debate following the last presentation of key EU and EEA issues, it was agreed that the presentations should concern both key policy issues in Europe and important decisions within the scope of the EEA Agreement. I will begin this presentation with a theme that concerns both policies, legal acts and legislation in the internal market, namely climate. It is now fully recognised that global greenhouse gas emissions need to decrease. They must descend into our own country, and we must help to reduce emissions in other countries as well. Both are important. The government has set ambitious targets to bring the emissions down. The EU has also set ambitious targets for emission reductions. EU countries will at least reduce their emissions by 20 pst. by 2020. If other developed countries do the same, they will cut emissions by 30 pst. A crucial measure to stop the growth of emissions — and then bring them down — is that CO2 emissions are priced. It must cost to emit CO2. Our countries need to set up the economic system so that laws and regulations draw people and businesses in a more climate-friendly direction in terms of both consumption and production. In addition to knowledge and co-responsibility, there must be an economic motivation for companies, municipalities and individuals to reduce their emissions. There is currently no global price of greenhouse gas emissions or a global allowance market. The Kyoto Agreement allocates emission rights between developed countries, based on historical emissions. It includes countries with 30 pst. of world emissions. In the process of reaching an agreement under the current Kyoto agreement, we need to bring large emitters, such as the United States and Australia. And we have to move with countries where emissions are now growing most, like Brazil, India, China and other developing countries. A key challenge will be to identify systems that ensure burden-sharing globally, among other things. with regard to the financing of measures to reduce emissions in developing countries. Norway is actively working towards this at the forthcoming conference in Bali in December. The EU ETS that currently has the greatest potential to contribute to large emission reductions is the EU ETS. The European ETS is an important element of international climate cooperation not only in Europe but also globally. The EU ETS is currently facing the clear highest demand for emission reductions from developing countries and developed countries outside the allowance system. Here we will now be shown how the trading of allowances can help bring down emissions. The single EU internal market legislation paved the way for EU countries to develop a common quota system. The system will apply in an area of equal rules and in which there are institutions which can ensure that the rules are followed with the necessary degree of predictability and ability to verify the results. In order to ensure access to a potentially very effective tool for reducing climate emissions, the Government, with the support of the Storting, decided to work to ensure that Norway and the other EEA/EFTA countries can connect to the EU ETS. The government left the allowance proposition, Ot.prp. No 66 for 2006-2007, until Norway joins the EU ETS from 2008. The consent of the Storting to this law means that companies that account for well over 40 pst. Norwegian emissions of CO2 are subject to quota obligations. The deposit will be presented with an consent proposal in a short time. Let me take this opportunity to take a closer look at the concrete significance of Norwegian membership of this system. The total annual emissions of EU countries are expected in the years 2008 to 2012 to represent approximately 2 billion tonnes of CO2 within the quota system. Emissions from EU ETS are estimated to be around 21-23 million tonnes per year, i.e. about 1 pst. by the market within that allowance system. For the companies included in the allowance trading system, it will contribute to cost-effective emission reductions. The government has set up a lower proportion of free allowances than has been common in many EU countries. The Government has indicated that Norwegian participation will increase the volume of allowances in the overall European system by 15 million tonnes per year. years. It is 4 tonnes less than Norwegian emissions in 2005 and 7 million tonnes less than expected emissions in 2010. So here we're talking about concrete reductions, tonnes by tonne, resulting from connection to the system. In addition, we will limit the use of so-called CDM actions – Clean Development Mechanism – and joint implementation, Joint Implementation. Let me also add that this applies to Norwegian enterprises and not to Norway as a country. In other words, the connection to the system will help bring the total emissions down effectively. We hardly have anything more effective and effective than this. The EU aims to reduce the share of free allowances. This is a goal government share. We want no allowances to be free after 2012. This needs to be prepared for business. It's going to cost you to get CO2 out. The Government also aims to ensure that more sectors of business are covered by the ETS. This is also a discussion taking place in the EU. In concrete terms, inclusion of the aviation sector is discussed by 2010. Not major changes in size are most likely to take place after 2012. The EEA Agreement is based on a two-pillar system, with its own bodies on the EFTA side. We have wanted to maintain this even in relation to the EU ETS Directive, so that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, will be the body that makes decisions in relation to each EFTA country’s national climate quota plan. In this work, ESA will broadly base the same assessments of approval as that used by the Commission in its assessment of EU Member States’ allocation plans. It has also been important for us to ensure that our obligations in relation to the Kyoto Agreement and its various mechanisms can be met by the adoption of the ETS Directive. Just because EU cooperation is committed, the EU ETS is also considered to be the most effective. It's not just us who've seen it. Several countries and regions are now in dialogue with the EU and want to relate to the quota system. It's positive and uplifting, and perhaps some of the most exciting things that happen in the international climate diplomacy of these days. On 29 October Norway took part in the launch of an international partnership on emission ceilings and trading of allowances. The meeting took place in Lisbon, invited by the Portuguese Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission, and the Minister for Finance took part. Canada, New Zealand, and several American states — New York, New Jersey, and California — took part. So they're looking to see if they can join the system and get into business. The objective of this partnership, called the International Carbon Action Partnership, is to contribute to increasing efficiency in and between EU ETSs, as well as to promoting innovation and demand for products and services contributing to lower emissions. But, of course, quota trading systems are not the only instrument in climate policy. Like the EU, we are also working in Norway for the development of alternative energy and energy efficiency. In this context, since it is Europe and the EEA, let me mention that Norwegian researchers, together with their European colleagues, are participating in a whole 57 joint projects on climate change under the 6th Framework Programme for Research. 15 of these projects focus on CO2 management. In this research and development work, we have a lot of experience to take with us. Norway introduced as the first oil producing country the CO2 tax on petroleum production at the beginning of the 1990s. Today we have the petroleum sector in the world with the lowest emissions per year. unit of production. Our experience in the capture and storage of CO2 is a strength that we will take forward in many types of international cooperation. Norway has a historic responsibility to bring forward technologies that can contribute to the CO2 clean-up of petroleum production. The technology for such cleaning is known, but has not yet been tested in full scale power plants, as is known. The cost level of full-scale cleaning is known to be too high that it has been commercially interesting to try it out. That's why a major state involvement is necessary, as we add up in the implementation of the Mongstad project. The government will support the development of a technology needed by the world and which the international climate panel considered to be a significant part of the response to the climate challenge. There is no doubt that the EU considers the capture and storage of CO2 – CCS, as it is called – as an important contribution to significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions. At its March summit, EU leaders decided that the EU should focus on the capture and storage of CO2 as a climate policy instrument, as well as on energy saving and renewable energy. This has been followed up by the Member States in their decision to establish up to 12 major demonstration projects for the capture and storage of CO2 by 2015. In other words, fishing and storage are on the EU agenda. Nevertheless, neither environmental legislation nor State aid legislation is a challenge per year. today reflects this effort. In Norway, more than the EU has been achieved in terms of the concreteisation and planning of such projects. It is therefore the first time these provisions of the EEA Agreement and the EC Treaty are assessed in relation to CO2 capture and storage projects. The Commission is currently considering the framework conditions for support for the development of technologies for the capture and storage of CO2 gases. For Norway, it is essential to be able to accept sufficient public funding to implement such projects. State resources and State resources will be heavily involved both in the Mongstad test centre, in full scale sewage treatment plants on Mongstad and Kårstø and in the CO2 transport and storage facilities. The government is concerned about the progress of these projects as State aid is a challenge both in terms of content and possible time use. Active efforts are being made to address this within the timetables set for the projects. The state’s investment in the test centre at Mongstad was notified to ESA this summer. It also assesses the notification of the full-scale capture plant project on Kårstø and the project for the transport and storage of CO2 from Kårstø and Mongstad. Since there are parallel rules on State aid in the EU and the EEA – that is part of the meaning of cooperation – and EU regulatory development in the field of State aid is over time reflected in the EEA Agreement, we are now directly and actively engaged in our contacts with the EU with meetings at both political and employment level. This applies to the institutions of the European Union and to the Member States of the European Union. In addition to our participation in the EEA Agreement, we have placed great emphasis on dialogue with the EU Member States in the development of our own climate policy. Since the summer, we have deepened the dialogue with Germany, one of Norway’s main energy partners. Germany’s Foreign Minister visited Svalbard just to increase knowledge of climate change and to deepen Norwegian-German discussions on north-eastern issues, climate and energy. The dialogue on climate issues has also escalated with France. When Minister of Foreign Affairs Kouchner comes to Norway in a few weeks, climate, environment and energy will be the main issues in our conversations, including: a special focus on capture and storage. The fact that French and Norwegian companies are now involved in the development of the Shtokman field could provide a new chapter in the relations between France and Norway in relation to energy and climate issues, as well as the openings which this creates for deeper climate cooperation with Russia. Nordic cooperation is also important in our climate policy work, as the Nordic Council here in Oslo showed last week. Denmark will host the International Climate Change Conference in December 2009 which, hopefully, will be able to adopt a new post-Kyoto agreement. Sweden will hold the EU Presidency at the same time. Overall, this will open up opportunities for close cooperation between the Nordic countries with a view to achieving the best possible international climate agreement. An important EEA issue with environmental significance is the EU's new Chemicals Directive, also known as REACH. REACH provides us with a new and comprehensive system for the registration and evaluation of chemicals marketed in the EEA territory. About 30 000 substances will be covered by legislation and registration shall ensure knowledge of the health and environmental effects of chemicals. The government’s assessment is that REACH will improve the protection of health and the environment through enhanced chemicals management in Europe. The acquis came into force in the EU on 1 June this year. Norway has submitted many input and comments during the development of the legislation. The rapid inclusion of REACH in the EEA Agreement is important in order to promote Norwegian chemicals policy into the new governance regime. It will also be important for Norwegian consumers and to provide Norwegian industry with the same framework conditions as their competitors in the EU. Let me also underline the importance of the long-term transposition into the EEA Agreement of the EU Food Law Regulation of 2002 and legislation on hygiene and control from 2004. This legislation is important to ensure that all actors throughout the food production chain take responsibility for food safety and to contribute to an equivalent, effective and targeted official control in the EEA area. The new agreement will ensure a high level of protection for consumers in terms of food safety. The regulatory framework will also contribute to the smooth functioning of the internal market for all types of food. The decisions of the EEA Committee are subject to the consent of the Grand Duchy, and the Government will come back with proposals to this effect in January. An area of particular interest for Norway is the development of a more comprehensive maritime policy. We have actively participated and made a number of well documented suggestions and recordings. The overall management of the coastal zone from sea to land is important for long-term sustainability in these important areas, in relation to both ecology, economics and housing. The Government is committed to the objectives set by the EU for such a policy: sustainable use of seas and seas, the establishment of a broader knowledge and development base for a maritime policy, high quality of life in coastal regions and the promotion of the visibility of ‘maritime Europe’. The objectives are closely consistent with our own maritime policy objectives and provide us with a good basis for further contact and cooperation with the EU and its Member States. In the future, we will ask the EU to step up its efforts in the field of environmentally friendly maritime industries. A European Maritime Strategy with a new European Maritime Strategy Directive is expected to be completed during 2008. The Directive shall constitute the environmental pillar of the EU's maritime policy. We will follow this closely. In the Commission's Blue Paper on an Integrated Maritime Policy, we have also noted some multidisciplinary areas that may be interesting in further cooperation between Norway and the EU. This applies to monitoring activities, where we should develop more integrated solutions to existing systems and cooperation on the increased use of satellite-based solutions. Furthermore, the exchange of experience and ‘best practices’ relate to examples of maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone planning, and to the development of a European marine observation and data network. Let me say that from the Commission there is expressed recognition regarding the Norwegian input into this process, and that gives us a good basis to follow it closely. In January of this year, the EU was expanded by two additional countries, when Romania and Bulgaria joined the EU as members. This completes an important phase of EU enlargement. Enlargement to countries with different levels of economic and social development is one of the most important challenges facing the EU today. For this reason, programmes for economic and social cohesion are an extensive field of action. This also affects the EEA countries. Norway is therefore also contributing to economic and social cohesion in the enlarged EU and the EEA. We note that the interest in EEA funds after the 2004 enlargement is increasing and large, and that Norwegian environments are gradually succeeding in building networks and establishing different forms of project cooperation. This is a promising starting point for closer bilateral ties with these countries. Until 30 April 2009, Norway shall contribute approximately DKK 1.1 billion to Romania and Bulgaria. About half of the funds will be channelled through existing EEA funding mechanisms, with the environment, development of human resources, health and children and cultural memory protection as main areas of activity. The second half shall be channelled through two newly established bilateral cooperation programmes. These programmes focus on the environment, climate, energy and sustainable production. The need for action in the two countries is great, and Norway has experience and competence to contribute. We have here a historic opportunity for increased cooperation and contact. The programmes require partnership between Norwegian and Romanian and Bulgarian actors. They will be managed by Innovation Norway and Norwegian actors will be able to apply directly. Both the EEA Mechanism and the bilateral programmes will be launched for Norwegian actors here in Oslo tomorrow, on the day of the official visit to Norway by the President of Romania. Corresponding launches will take place in the next two weeks. All thus facilitates the development of close and fruitful mutual cooperation with the last two EU Member States. Let me also underline the importance that the Government attaches to our Norwegian contribution to promoting the dialogue between the social partners and their sister organisations in the new EU Member States, including the EU. on professional rights and questions of employment. For this purpose, the Government has proposed a separate grant scheme for the following year’s budget. I hope interested parties will seize the opportunity that has now been opened up by this scheme. The Heads of State and Government of the EU countries agreed on a new reform treaty in Lisbon on 18 October this year. The path to the consensus that now exists between EU leaders has, as we all know, been swirling and demanding. The Reform Treaty is expected to be signed in December. It shall then be approved in accordance with national procedures in the Member States of the European Union. The aim is for the Treaty to be ratified well in advance of the elections to the European Parliament in June 2009. If countries succeed, the EU will have a new framework for cooperation. Does the Lisbon agreement have any significance for Norway on 18 October, provided that the reform treaty will be sufficiently wound up in each Member State in the coming months? Yes, I believe that the new Treaty basis, if it comes into force, is also important to us, because it will affect the arrangement of our work on an active European policy. We have consistently served the good functioning of EU cooperation. It is in our interest, among others. because it ensures that agreements concluded with the EU, the EEA Agreement and cooperation in a wide range of other areas are not blocked or adversely affected. And let us not forget that the EU is our most important market and of importance for Norwegian jobs and Norwegian welfare. Nor should we forget that EU countries are our closest allies and partners. New EU legislation from 2014 will, as a general rule, be decided by qualified majority in the Council and by simpler procedures than today. This will help to speed up the development of new legislation. Many claim that this means that the blockage right, or veto right, that the Member States currently have to prevent the adoption of new legislation, will cease. Formal set, this is correct. At the same time, experience is that only in exceptional cases has such pointed situations arisen. Decisions in the EU are taken following a continuous balancing of interests between participating countries. The Reform Treaty, if adopted, will also give national parliaments a more important role in the development of new EU legislation. It is likely to strengthen the participation of elected bodies in the legislative process. The Reform Treaty could also help to strengthen the EU's capacity to act in the field of foreign policy. This will happen by the fact that the functions of the Commission responsible for foreign policy and the Council’s prime representative in this area, today Javier Solana, are held by one and the same person. It could increase the EU's external weight. At the same time, however, it is important to remember that the degree of common foreign policy is no greater than what the EU countries together arrive at. Where they stand together, the Reform Treaty will help to increase the external weight of the EU countries. It's the same in all other areas. The EU’s progress depends on the overall political power of the countries. This force is not given. It varies according to developments in the 27 Member States and the ability of the EU to meet new challenges. For example, the management of Kosovo’s future status will be a significant challenge for an EU as a whole, and for Norway. The new Treaty of the European Union also presents challenges for us. The structure of today's economic cooperation division into one pillar and foreign and judicial cooperation in the other two pillars is changing. Decision-making processes in the various fields will become more uniform. This means, among other things: that the EU gives itself a new freedom of action to see all policy areas and actions in the context, including: be able to conclude international agreements in which economics, trade, judicial cooperation other than assistance, development and foreign policy are seen in the context. It is difficult today to assess the impact of this on EEA cooperation. However, the failure of such a pillar structure, as we know from the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, and several areas under the competence of the EU could make it more difficult to define clearly what is EEA and/or Schengen relevant. Increased use of majority decisions will increase the need for close contact with EU countries for networking and alliance building in our practical work on following up and developing policies relevant to the EEA and Schengen – or of other importance to us. The Government considers that the EEA Agreement is of mutual benefit to the parties. It ensures predictable access to EU markets and ensures the same access for EU countries to the markets of the EFTA/EEA countries. In this community of interests, we must seek solutions to the challenges that may arise, whether of an institutional or political nature. The same applies in areas related to foreign and security policy. Here we will continue a close and close dialogue with a view to developing cooperation on common objectives. Such goals are many, and they hardly get any smaller in the future. The Government will carefully review the new Treaty basis of the EU in order to assess further the impact of the importance of our EEA and Schengen participation. We will also consider translating the new Treaty basis of the EU after it has been signed by the Heads of State or Government in December. EU cooperation in the wider field of justice policy, including those covered by Schengen cooperation, is characterised by significant developments. New legislation is being developed and new policy initiatives are being taken. Over the years, we have come into a position where we work closely with the European Union in a number of areas of justice and home affairs policy. The aim is to improve the ability of our law enforcement agencies, especially the police, to prevent and solve crime. Our agreement on participation in Schengen cooperation is the most important and comprehensive agreement on justice policy of this nature. The police’s ability to prevent and solve crime has improved after Norway has concluded agreements with the EU to participate in both Europol and Eurojust, which are EU police and prosecution cooperation bodies. We are also linked to the EU Conventions on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. In this way, we now have both legal bases and the necessary tools for resolving cases of organised crime, which in almost all cases have cross-border effects. By also participating in the EU External Border Control Coordination Body, Frontex, we are involved in an important effort to prevent cross-border crime. Work on organised, cross-border crime is now a significant priority in the EU. This is also important for Norway. The fight against drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and prostitution, as well as money laundering from such crime, must take place in an international context. Recently, the EU has decided to implement parts of the so-called Prüm Convention, which provides access to a faster and more extensive exchange of police information between countries. It is not least about sharing information from DNA and fingerprint registers. This provides an increased opportunity to solve serious crime. The government wants Norway to be able to relate to this cooperation. From the Norwegian side, we are also working intently to reach agreements with the EU and individual countries on the transfer of settlement prisoners, so that they can be moved from Norwegian prisons to prisons in their home countries – and vice versa. Immigration into Europe from Africa, the Middle East and Asia is one of Europe’s major political challenges. EU countries have put global migration flows on the agenda. The challenge is to find a good balance between transparency, because Europe needs labour immigration, but also control. In this balance, not all our attention can be focused on the control of the external border, even if it is central. We also need to develop a good migration policy through the development of closer partnerships between countries of origin and transit. Europe’s countries must pay attention to the causes of migration and recognise that migration flows cannot be prevented or controlled without an active development policy towards the countries of origin. Other reasons for migration, such as: instability or conflicts of a local or regional nature suggest that the EU's foreign policy will also have an increased role to play in this context. Tomorrow, the EU will hold a public consultation in Brussels on its Green Paper on future asylum policy. This fundamental debate in the EU will also have an impact on road choices in Norway in this area of policy. The government has sent a consultation response to the Green Paper to the EU, and we have invited several Norwegian organisations to do the same. The relationship between EU migration policy, development policy and foreign policy will over time lead to changes in EU policy towards Africa and the countries east of Europe. Norway has to follow closely. In my previous statement, I mentioned that Norway is invited to participate in the development of the new EU policy in this field, and in this statement I confirm that it is our intention to follow this up. We have to be involved from the start of this process, and it is our aim to influence the device and the design of the policy. As in other areas, we need to look for political space for action, developed as a result of an active European policy based on the formal forms of association we have, and based on good knowledge of developments in the EU and individual EU countries. During the discussion of the Single European Act on an active European policy, we received a broad review of our forms of work. We are working on following up on the area by area, and I am also aware that the Storting has that discussion. I mentioned that EU parliaments are now more involved in cooperation. It also addresses challenges in relation to the Storting, I would assume. It is a task for the Government, as I said, but it also applies to most other political and civil actors in Norwegian society. It will be natural to come back after a year and assess the experience we experience with a more active and coordinated European policy. There is no specific road map here — there is in some way no one like Norway in this context. We need to gain experience, and we need to learn from them. We must make use of formal channels and mechanisms, but also learn from the informal channels. And not least we have to share the lessons we do. It may be natural to bring together key actors, private and public, for a review of such experiences in 2008. The government wants to stimulate ongoing debate and reflection on the development of EU cooperation, how we deal with it, and how it affects us. In next year's budget, we will increase support for organisations that are engaged in information work on European issues. We also allocate funds to the social partners for networking in the new Member States, as mentioned. We have further developed the dialogue with civil society on European issues through the establishment of a national European forum. The Forum shall meet annually. Friday this week the forum meets again, in Bergen. I have invited about 40 participants from the political parties, researchers and non-governmental organisations to a Round Table. The themes will be climate and maritime policy this time. In connection with the National European Forum, we will also, for the first time in the year, invite you to the European Youth Forum. The aim is to encourage increased interest and debate on European issues among young people. I have explained some key issues in our relationship with the EU. I have focused on ongoing issues based on EEA cooperation and Schengen cooperation. They show that we can intervene closely with the EU if we have good arguments and use good channels. But they also show that our task is to respond to initiatives coming from the EU, and to do what we can to safeguard Norwegian interests and influence with our eyesight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e391	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed later. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e409	Never before in history have more people lived in democracy and freedom. In the mid 1970s, 41 countries were characterised as democracies. Now it's 125 countries. 1.4 billion people at this time have gone from living in dictatorship to living in democracy. Contrary to what many believe, evolution is moving in the right direction, but it is far from making all people feel that human rights are respected. Too many live in dictatorships where grotesque abuse is perpetrated every day — and unfortunately without the international community responding. Globalisation has been an important driver for the democratisation of the world and for the attention given to human rights violations. The world has ‘shrinked’ by the fact that communication across borders and information on other forms of governance reaches not only government leaders but also the population. People around the world can reach fellow humans in other parts of the world by simple keystrokes and in this way make it impossible to hide abuse. It is not that human rights violations in countries around the world can be regarded as an internal issue. It's not that human rights are relative, that some rights apply to some, and other rights apply to others. We cannot tolerate the violation of rights under the guise of religious beliefs or culture and tradition. Violation of human rights concerns us all, not just those who experience abuse. Several countries that have previously had recourse to democracy, or have been regarded as democracies, have again become authoritarian. We have Burma, which I'm going to go closer to, where, like in Pakistan, the events of the last few days are very alarming. Both countries are run by the military. We have Zimbabwe, with its rail democracy. We have Somalia and Sudan – countries without a protective and regulatory state apparatus, where extremism and violent conflicts are still under development. My point is that it does little for the millions of people who are living in a dictatorship right now, that the world in general is moving in the right direction – that democracy is spreading, that poverty is gradually being eradicated, and that more and more people are gaining human rights. The proper direction of development must never overshadow the situation of those suffering from the opposite development. Our question will then be how the world's society deals with states where democracy is lacking and where human rights are broken. The instruments of influence available to us can be divided mainly into three main categories. We can choose to use raw power, so force change by intervening militarily. Or, if we choose another solution, we can use economic and political cooperation, carrots and whips, dialogue, bonding and through interdependence create room for influence and change. Or we can choose a third way: we can pretend that the regimes don't exist, or mark our disgust by boycotting and isolating. I am most closely associated with the second, which can really be called political, with contact, dialogue, trade, negotiations. It's an influence by creating mutual understanding. When I don't have any faith in boycott as a tool, it's because it's really going to take a lot of time before a boycott works like it's supposed to. We have far too many ghastly examples of trading boycotts and isolation of countries working against their purpose and hitting an innocent civilian population more than the rulers. And once a boycott is introduced, it's all the more difficult to lift it without achieving the desired result. It's a stronger signal to lift a boycott than to create one. If the outside world is not assembled to boycott, a boycott cannot have the desired effect either. That's why I think boycott is a very demanding tool. Financial sanctions against regimes can only work if they are cleverly organized so that they hit the very ones who are in power, and not innocent people. I've been involved in politics for almost 12 years now. When I joined the AUF in the mid-1990s, the Burma affair was what we worked with locally. The time we heard that the regime was going to fall at any time. It was just a matter of time, quite a short time, before the military junta came to give in to the demand for democracy and the pressure the international sanctions created. Since then, 12 years have passed, and the regime is equally strong, despite the extensive sanctions from the outside world. Let me get back to it with penalties a little bit later. I filed this interview because I think it's important to pay more attention to the situation in Burma, a country I think is getting too little attention to common, but also because it's especially topical right now. Burma has, as you know, been a dictatorship ruled by the military junta, or the Peace and Development Council, which they paradoxically call themselves, since the military coup in 1962. The Junta is one of Asia's largest armies after the Chinese and Indian, with under 400,000 soldiers and extensive use of child soldiers. Since the coup, the junta has completely isolated Burma from the world community. As a result, Burma went from being one of the richest countries in Asia to becoming one of the ten poorest countries in the world. Before the coup, Burma had one of Asia's highest standards of living and a quite well-trained population. Now only the junta lives well, and it represents some sort of elite. Juntaen and their families live in a closed society with completely different rights and freedoms than the rest of the population. They have their own hospitals, they have their own schools, they have access to goods that the rest of the population never sees, and they live in closed, small communities with subsidised, luxurious homes. They have extensive surveillance in place. They're using forced labour, they're doing ethnic cleansing and they're forcing large groups. In 1988 the Burmese people had had enough and went out into the streets and demanded democratic reforms and freedom. People carried out non-violent demonstrations and strikes all over the country. But it was knocked down hard, and the junta ended the protests with opening fire. As a result of these protests, but perhaps the most to calm the people down and try to prevent new demonstrations, the junta held elections two years later, in 1990. The election led, as is well known, to the very great uprising of the National League for Democracy, led by Aung San Suu Kyi, the daughter of Aung San. The Junta did not accept the election, and the NLD did not form a government. The Junta launched terror against the members of the NLD, elected representatives and political activists. The Burmese have been waiting for democracy since then – so far in vain. In 1997, the Junta changed its name to the Peace and Development Council, without them convincing anyone in the international community that they had any intention whatsoever of working for neither peace nor development in the country. The second thing the junta has done to try to comply with international criticism is that they decided to start work on what has been called a ‘road map for peace’. The first step was to convene the Constitutional Assembly and prepare a draft Constitution. This draft was presented in July, but NLD has not been involved in the work, and the process lacks all credibility. It's amazing that something as horrible as what's happening in Burma has received so little attention in the international media in recent years. In August, however, the world woke up, and the search light was once again put on the brutality of Burma, when dramatic images of demonstrations rolled over the TV screens. Burma boiled over in a few days, when what started out as spontaneous protests that the junta without notice doubled the gas prices, evolved to become the biggest protest against 45 years of dictatorship since the 1988 settlement. As the world witnessed, the demonstrations again ended in a bloodbath. No one can certainly say how many people have been killed or put in prison, and the concerns about the state of, and what has happened to, all the thousands who are missing. The UN Special Envoy, Gambari, is right now in Burma, and the world's eyes follow his visits and conversations with the junta and opposition. The United States has imposed stricter sanctions, and the EU is discussing the matter. Regardless of what the US and the EU would have to do with future sanctions against the regime, we have to assume that in the future they will not have a decisive impact on whether the regime falls, or changes, because as long as China and India are fighting to invest in Burma and support the regime, we must realize that it is also these two countries and the region around Burma that have the key to influencing the regime to change. ASEAN as an organisation is crucial, and now goes beyond ever before in its criticism of the junta's handling. But they don't go far enough. And China and India also don't want to come with scratch enough criticism of their important supplier of energy. It is therefore essential that the world community and the Norwegian government demand that China and India take their role seriously and use their ability to influence. This, together with effective sanctions against the junta, will be what may in the long term affect the regime to change. At the same time, we must seek humanitarian aid and help to the populations of Burma, who are now suffering from a lack of health care, food and safety. Support for the opposition and the existence of civil society is the right way to move towards supporting and maintaining internal pressure. Norway must continue its line here. At the same time, the Norwegian government must use its voice to draw attention to the situation of women in Burma, which is particularly bad. – Now I see that my time is running out, so I come back to the women’s situation in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e449	Norway is actively working to strengthen the protection of human rights in many countries. We see that respect for human rights is a prerequisite for democracy. Working democratic institutions contribute, on their part, to the promotion and respect of human rights. We also see that there is a clear link between human rights, democracy, security and development. I would like to thank the representative Trettebergstuen for asking a timely question about how best to meet the worsening situation in Burma. There is a problem issue Norway has been high on the agenda for a number of years, especially after Aung San Suu Kyi was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991. Sixteen years later, we have seen a new generation of peaceful democracy champions, led by the monks of Burma, brutally defeated. The abuse of peaceful demonstrators has aroused strong reactions worldwide, including in Norway. Despite the condemnation and reactions of the outside world, it is still unclear whether the regime is willing to engage in real dialogue on change. We don't know how many people were killed, injured or imprisoned when the regime in Burma intervened with military means, but we fear that there is far more than what the authorities say. Television images have refocused their attention on international society. Unfortunately, what we have seen is a reminder of what has been the everyday life of millions of Burmese people for over 40 years. The underlying causes of the demonstrations, namely the desperation of the Burmese economic, political, humanitarian and human rights situation, have been there for decades. The social and economic conditions in Burma have gradually deteriorated since the military regime took power in 1962. Burma's educational institutions are not working, and civil society is very weak. The social capital that must be the basis of any well-functioning democracy is currently almost non-existent. Trust among different groups is low, and the population lives in a climate of fear. The population represents more than one hundred ethnic minorities. A few continue to fight the military regime, while some 20 groups have concluded shaky truce agreements. Poverty is widespread, and together with a poorly-developed health and education system, the danger of collapsing the social structure itself is high. One of the major challenges facing international society is the development and support of a civil society that can form the basis for a future democratic Burma. At the same time, there is a need to help the people of Burma with the precarious needs they meet daily. It is crucial for the people living in Burma, but it is also vital for Burma's capacity to hold together as a stable state. The sum of these factors means that much is at stake — from a perspective of universal human rights, but also for the stability of Burma's neighbourhoods. I believe that Norway in our approach to Burma policy must focus on the following key elements: firstly, we must continue to condemn human rights violations, insist that political prisoners must be released, and that the regime must enter into a real dialogue with the democratic forces and the ethnic leaders of Burma. We shall continue to demand that the International Red Cross be given access to the prisoners. We have done this in our conversations with Burmese authorities. And we've done it in the UN context, including in the UN Human Rights Council, which for the first time in the autumn took the initiative for a special session on Burma. Norway is a co-sponsor and thus participates in the work of a Burma resolution in the Third Committee of the United Nations at the General Assembly. We have made considerable efforts to reach a resolution that is as clear and operational as possible. Secondly, we must support the work of the UN Special Envoy, Ibrahim Gambari, now carrying out. My impression is that emphasis is placed on his role from many teams, including the countries in Burma's neighbourhoods. We have an ongoing dialogue with him. I met Gambari in New York before he traveled to Burma for the first time, and I met him again when I was in Tokyo at the end of October. Our embassies in the region have also closely followed his meetings in the Asian capitals. My message is clear: Norway is prepared to listen to his advice and to assist and support him in his work. He will probably be able to play an important role — albeit demanding — in the dialogue between the parties internally in Burma and in the coordination of external action. Continuity in this work is important. That's why we're happy that Gambari is now back in Burma. Thirdly, we will continue to provide assistance to Burma through the UN and the humanitarian organisations that can operate in the country. We're going to work for these organizations to increase their access. So far this year we have increased our support for the Burmese people, and we have pledged 55 million. kr. That's $11 million. kr more than last year. Support is mainly aimed at relieving the serious humanitarian situation in Burma. We shall also continue to give support to the Democratic Voice of Burma and democratic forces bringing information and hope to the people of Burma. Fourth, we shall continue to influence the countries of the region to an active commitment to change. Here, China and India are central, as the interpellant pointed out. I myself discussed Burma with Secretary of State He from China when we met in Oslo last month. The strengthened commitment we are experiencing today from the Chinese side is important, but it has to be maintained. I stress that from the Norwegian side we are continuing this close dialogue with China. Furthermore, I have discussed the situation in Burma with the Foreign Minister of Indonesia, who is now in the UN Security Council, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Thailand and with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Singapore, who holds the ASEAN Presidency. Of course, we are also discussing developments in Burma with the US authorities and with the EU and European countries. In addition to the dialogue we have with key international actors, in line with the Norwegian line over many years, I have maintained close contact with key actors in Burma, both through our embassies in Bangkok, through contact with the Burmese exile movement and with organisations working in the country. Norway is, as you know, in line with the EU's common position on Burma. This involves targeted and limited measures, such as the arms embargo, the refusal of visas and the freezing of funds for members of the regime. In addition, the Norwegian Government has stood firm on the line encouraging Norwegian professional organisations and citizens not to trade, invest in or travel to Burma. Norway and the EU are committed not to harm the Burmese people. Therefore, they are designed to be primarily directed towards the regime. On 15 October, EU foreign ministers reached political agreement on the strengthening and extension of existing measures against Burma. This agreement involves restrictions on trade and investment in the timber, precious stones, minerals and metals sectors. At the same time, foreign ministers signalled their willingness to support Burma if the regime chooses to move towards reform and democratisation. I expect the EU to clarify the content and design of the legislation for these new measures in the current month. From the Norwegian side, we have made it clear that we continue to join the EU line and the new notified measures. At the same time, it must be clear, as the interpellant pointed out, that sanctions can only be one tool to bring about change in Burma. They will have a limited impact as long as countries in the region do not agree on such instruments. What Burma needs most today is a dialogue between the regime and the opposition, so that development – political, economic and humanitarian – can begin. That's why we have to focus on everything we do. There is currently no international agreement on one approach to Burma. It's a challenge. However, the current dialogue between a number of countries is positive and important because it reflects a broad understanding that we can no longer accept a status quo in the country and that political dialogue and economic and social development are necessary. The agreement on the mandate of the UN Special Envoy, Gambari, is a positive step in this regard. It is also the first time that the Security Council has issued a joint opinion on the situation in Burma. Whether the Burma regime is prepared to engage in dialogue with the opposition in its own country and with the outside world is still uncertain. It has appointed one of the members of the Government as the contact person to the opposition, and that person has met with senior representatives of the opposition. Gambari, as mentioned, is conducting new talks in Burma in these days, with different sides and attempts to initiate dialogue between them. At the same time, the regime has announced that the UN's leading local representative in Burma will not be allowed to continue its work. Therefore, it will be very important to see and hear what signals Gambari receives from the regime during the conversations he now has. We look forward to continuing the dialogue with him when these conversations are over. And I regard broad and unanimous support for his mission as a very central tool to get the development we all want to see in Burma.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e481	Then it's the interpellant, Anette Trettebergstuen, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e484	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response, which clearly shows that Norway and the Government are making a good effort to contribute to the influence of the regime. I would like to stress the importance of listening to those who are now expressing concern about new and tightening sanctions, because only when these do not affect the civilian population are they appropriate. Like the Council of State, I hope that the EU will soon agree on the content of the new notified sanctions and that they will be sufficiently targeted. So I'm glad that the Council of State places emphasis on the importance of exerting pressure on China and India as Burma's neighbouring country, and ASEAN as a vitally important actor. It is worrying that China, despite the concern expressed when the junta hit the demonstrators, makes it very clear that they will not go further than that. This cannot easily get away from China. Beijing is one of Burma's main trading partners and the nearest Burma it will have an ally. Therefore, it is essential for China to play a team, whether the outside world should have any kind of influence on the regime. It's long yours. As long as China and India keep the junta and the regime alive by trading and investing and acting like the junta's umbilical cord, it doesn't matter much about other regions of the world. India and China are sitting with the key to closing the holes again and thus making it all very effective. Gambari can talk to the junta if he has access. But in the absence of neighbouring countries' condemnation of the regime, and the absence of support for Gambari and the United Nations and the will of the outside world to do something to punish the regime, the junta can still play split and rule, knowing that they have China and India in their backs, no matter how high the threats of sanctions become, and no matter how high the protests from the outside world become. In my first post, I was in the middle of the fact that the gross violation of human rights is not the internal issue of a country. It concerns all of us. Unfortunately, all states do not agree, and it may seem that China's strong non-interference policy is unfortunately helping to delay development in Burma as well. But if ASEAN can agree on condemnation and appropriate action — in terms of carrot and whip — against Burma, then one can hope that they will have enough influence to make China, India and also Japan follow. ASEAN now has a meeting next week that will be important. If that meeting does not lead to any concrete condemnation or action against the regime, many fear that Burma’s junta will view it as having once again escaped with their sanctions and received a tacit acceptance for it. I hope that the world community will use the OL as an opportunity to put the spotlight on China's strong ties to Burma. For such a searchlight ahead of the Olympic Games will undoubtedly be uncomfortable for the Chinese. It may unfortunately seem that the Chinese themselves have to feel uncomfortable before they can agree to make a real effort for all those who have lived in Burma in discomfort for over 45 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e501	Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre also has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e504	I don't think I'm going to use all those minutes, because I think the representative Trettebergstien has pointed out the central conditions that we're facing here. What I want to focus on is that the circumstances now might be present for us to be able to keep pressure on the regime over time. As the representative of Trettebergstuen said, many, many years have passed – you can go all the way back to 1962. The regime has since been able to build on its policies, and the flashes of light that have been a positive development have quickly been extinguished. That is why we are now concerned that we can keep pressure through the United Nations agencies, including the United Nations. China and India are involved, that they can ensure that Gambari has working conditions to continue his work so that it does not run into the sand, and that, through the measures we join with the EU, we can also make the situation more demanding and uncomfortable for leadership. At the same time, I think it is important for our own Burma knowledge that we also take into account the complexity of Burmese society. As I was in it, it is a country with many different groupings – ethnic groups, etc. – and many have described this as a country that is closest to a post-conflict situation on the inside because the division between different groups is so large. That's why I think it's hardly such that this is a country that goes against democracy by the fall of one regime. So it's a military regime with over 400,000 men under the weapon, and such a regime does not fall without further ado. That is why a national reconciliation process needs to be in place, and that is to facilitate what is a major challenge for international society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e511	There must never be any doubt that we on the Norwegian side are uncompromising about standing up for fundamental human rights. We have a responsibility to say from, to initiate critical dialogues, to support democratic movements and to run the UN track. Both in our development policy and in our foreign policy, human rights issues must be central, whether we are talking about Burma, Zimbabwe, White Russia or Iran. The interpellant has applied a wide angle of incidence, which also goes a little bit further than Burma. The fight for human rights is about protecting individuals from oppression and abuse, but also against poverty, economic exchange and unworthy living conditions. Each individual is unique, with inviolable rights. It's about human dignity, it's about personal integrity, and it's about the responsibility of the authorities. Human rights are a set of obligations on which standards and standards apply to individual human rights. These must also be universal. We can, for example: never accept that human rights are subject to a cultural-relativistic approach. The background for the interpellation is the focus on events in Burma over the past few weeks. We have witnessed with apprehension that monks and other civilians have been averted by the brutal military regime. The reactions are spontaneous: this does not accept the world community. I'll also show you what the interpellant said. As underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Norway has a long history of supporting the movement of democracy — in Burma as in other countries where human rights abuse and trampling occur. We gave the peace prize to Aung San Suu Kyi, and we also have strong groups in the Stortinge who have worked for human rights in Burma for many years. The starting point and background of today's conflict – if it is possible to call it a conflict, it is probably a repression – are the ethnic contradictions in Burma and a military regime that holds other ethnic groups down by iron. The ethnic groups that do not represent the regime want a federal government, with autonomous ethnic areas within the Federation, usually run by Aung San Suu Kyi, which may be interesting in the development of Burma. What is often forgotten when we talk about Burma is the refugee situation on the Thai side of the border. Norway should be among the leading countries in terms of assistance to refugees in these areas. It includes long-term support for education and qualification. The Foreign Affairs Committee met in autumn with representatives of aid workers operating on this side of the border. These are tough areas. In the difficult process, it is also essential that we support the work of the UN Special Envoy. The interpellant so much about Burma, but also has a wider perspective. So let me use the last minute in other areas, because unfortunately there are many countries where human rights are brutally broken. Iran is one of these countries. While the world community is focusing on Iran's nuclear program, its so-called Council of Watch Towers can unbreakably continue its extreme oppression. In recent weeks we have been informed of a sharp increase in the number of executions in Iran, including minors. I have to admit that I have some association with Afghanistan in the 1990s, when the Taliban seized power and used the stadium in Kabul for hanging and stoning. We also see public executions in Iran. We need to step up the human rights dialogue with Iran. And with the oppression of women we now see, and the asylum seekers we also get to Norway, it is necessary to get a foreign attaché in Tehran, which we will come back to in connection with the budget work this autumn. Finally, Norway has never gone to one-sided Norwegian boikott, whether it is Iran, Cuba or Burma. We have followed the UN, or we have followed the European Union. And we're going to do that now. Maybe it's also important to have a dialogue. Contact creation may subsequently produce positive results. One-sided boycott, on the other hand, has no effect, perhaps rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e534	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the interpellant for focusing on human rights and democratic development in general — and on the very difficult situation of the people of Burma in particular. I would also like to express my satisfaction both with the feedback from the Foreign Minister here in the Chamber today and with his comments to the press earlier. I am pleased that the Government has this time behaved neatly and has seen the sense of cooperating with the international community in coordinating actions against the military dictatorship in Burma. This, hopefully, shows that the government in retrospect has learned from its obvious mispractice with its solo game and its unilateral approval of the Hamas government, which we, on the other hand, strongly warn against. It should be obvious to most that measures and any sanctions should have an impact, they must have the widest possible international anchoring. Despite considerable international pressure from both the United States, the EU and other international actors, the military junta has unfortunately not given up. The situation is considerably calmer now than a few weeks ago, but I am afraid this is largely due to the iron grip of the authorities and the public's fear of new arrests and disappearances. After decades of repression of human rights, freedom of expression and democracy, the conflict escalated sharply a few weeks ago, with mass arrests there even monks were imprisoned. This preliminary low from the military regime shows that they are willing to go very far to maintain power. As late as yesterday afternoon, the Church's emergency aid announced that women arrested during the demonstrations are now being tortured and raped in prisons. These atrocities were identified on the basis of information provided by the Burmese Women’s League. Unfortunately little indicates that the regime is willing to give power to the people – or the one that the people of Burma have actually chosen as their leader, namely Aung San Suu Kyi. The rulers have kept her under house arrest for many years and have denied her the power and influence that she was legally given through elections. I believe that a strong and sustained international pressure from the international community must be the way to influence the development of Burma. Penalties such as trade restrictions should also be considered as an instrument, but these should be anchored as far as possible. The UN should play a significantly more active role here than we have seen so far. But with China as a permanent member of the Security Council, and with veto rights, we see that this is difficult, something the interpellant also had in mind. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the important work of democratic development in Burma, through the forums where he has the opportunity to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e553	First a thank-you to Anette Trettebergstuen, who very meritively addresses the theme. This is a theme that we must never stop recording. We have had this on the agenda several times in connection with different countries, whether it be Vietnam, Belarus or Burma. It's calling on some of the more general reflections on this theme that appear at regular intervals, and that we'll never rest. When we, as a foreign committee, are given the opportunity to travel around the world, one of them becomes like a meeting in some countries, where they claim that human rights are a kind of Western cultural invention that one can reserve against. Then it is important to see differences between the rulers and those who live in the country. I recall, as I have done before, the Arab Human Development Report from UNDP in 2003, which showed that in a poll it was over 60 pst. who wished for democracy in the Arab countries, and, when going deeper into it, a representative government, someone responsible for those who had chosen them, and for legal certainty. Human rights and democracy, of course, are linked, but one can have a slightly different approach to them. Because if you go into the people who are the weakest in disadvantaged countries, there's no doubt that they're giving priority to food, security, maybe school and the second form of government. But it's about explaining that having democracy is the best thing to do to guarantee the security they're after. It is unsustainable when representatives of the regimes in dictatorships or democracies of different deportations and different maturity expound abuses or deviations from human rights with local adaptation. Then we talk about human rights as demonstrated by the UN Declaration and various treaties, political-social rights, economic-cultural rights, women's rights or children's rights. Or it may be that the country has signed and possibly ratified the agreements, but lacks implementation in its own legislation. In some countries, implementation may be in place, but the courts are corrupt or controlled by the rulers. We'll find all the variants on the scale of gross assaults. Unfortunately, we regularly get fresh examples, whether it's in Iran, Pakistan, Vietnam, the Middle East or today's very current example, in Burma. Then we have tools, it was also the interpellant inside. Yes, we have some, and we've tried more. We have sanctions, which often hit the weakest, and which we probably haven't been good enough to develop so that they hit where they should hit. How crooked they can be, we have, among other things, seen in Iraq. Moreover, Burma will depend entirely on participation from ASEAN countries, not least from India and China, which many have commented very timely. The other one might imagine, as the interpellant also had in mind, is intervention under the banner of democracy, unfortunately in some cases done with a manifestly staggering motivation in the pursuit of natural resources, and perhaps especially oil – something that one should be very careful to use as an instrument. We are left with what others have pointed to, namely international pressure and dialogue to practice the expected standard in the country in question. Then the UN must be the most important forum. Unfortunately, it seems that the UN Human Rights Council is currently fading in the footsteps of its predecessor, the Human Rights Commission, and that is tragic. It is tragic for the people in the countries where the abuses take place, and it is tragic for the reputation and ability of the United Nations as a decent tool to promote human rights. It may seem like a long and steep path to go, but as a member of the United Nations, it must be our goal that the UN must assume that the Member States comply with the basic human rights agreements they have signed, that the United Nations must expect the same Member States to be open to transparency, evaluation and reporting to the appropriate UN bodies in accordance with agreed procedures, and that the United Nations must develop a set of responses to those who do not relate to the commitments they have entered into. Can't the UN gradually develop such a policy, I'm afraid that our most important world forum will undermine its own legitimacy. Because it has to be the same for the UN as for each of us: the norms we have chosen to base, we have to stand for, and then it has to stand so that they seem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e576	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising the important question of how we deal with brutal regimes, starting with Burma. There was one waker for many of us when we saw the dramatic images of what happened in Burma in the fall. But as many have said, this has also happened before, in 1988. Following the initiative of the Rafto Foundation and exilers, many in Bergen meet every Saturday to demonstrate solidarity with Burma. For the lesson after 1988 is that we are not allowed to forget, to let this brutal government continue without international pressure and attention. We must admit that the critical voices have been too few and too weak for long periods while the junta has strengthened the iron grip on the people. Burma, rich in natural resources and cultural traditions, has become one of the poorest countries in the world, such as the interpellant. In one of the world’s most corrupt countries, the regime’s revenue is predominantly spent on military and superlative luxury on a small oligarchy of generals. As a result, large parts of the population are almost without education and health rights. Military coercion movements tens of thousands of people where there is oil, gas or timber, for short-term income opportunities. Many villages have been destroyed, and between half a and a million are internally displaced refugees. Slavery, including child labour, is widespread. The population is controlled by a most overarching intelligence system. Where four Burmese are gathered, there are at least five spies, there is one saying. However, the worst human rights violations are targeted at women and girls. For the junta knows what all oppressors know: if you're going to break a people, you're going to have to break the women. There are shocking stories you can hear in a report published by the organization to which Vaksdal referred, namely Women’s League of Burma. I was so lucky that I met some of the tough, beautiful ladies in this organization when they were visiting Norway today, and their stories agree with the stories of the United Nations, from Human Rights Watch and from Amnesty, namely that the junta is using sexualized violence, including mass violence, and is using sex slaves as a weapon of repression. Women’s League of Burma works systematically with women, peace and security work on both sides of the border. This is supported by Norway, and it must continue to receive Norway’s support, as it generally contributes to building civil society. But there is also valuable investment in a process that may become difficult on the day the junta regime gives in to the pressure for tripartite negotiations between the military, opposition and ethnic groups. It has been warned against a new Yugoslavia if the junta gives itself, but there are warnings that are getting less and less, because it gives cause for optimism when the opposition has so much managed to gather over ethnic, religious and political divisions, with Aung San Suu Kyi as a congregator. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has said about Norway's clear line, and there is great and broad support for this line here in Stortinget, as this debate shows. There are many who have called for specific instruments from Norway. Let me just remind you that the Storting has decided not to purchase government bonds in Burma. The Ethics Council, after the Minister of Finance asked for a review of the State Pension Fund – Foreign investment in companies engaged in Burma, has come to the conclusion that it is most topical to withdraw from the day of the investment in major infrastructure projects, such as pipelines, hydroelectric power development or mining, because there will then be a large, unacceptable risk of serious and systematic human rights violations. These will be measures which will affect the regime and which, as everyone is concerned, will not affect the civilian population. But at the same time, it is important to say what many have said, that we must maintain a dialogue both with the opposition and with the junta on what is going on – and especially through the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e598	The military dictatorship continues to hold Burma under the iron heel. The abuses upset us when we see the news on TV. The harvest's protests from the Burmese people were initiated by red-clothed monks who went unarmed in long street marches. The people joined, but then the military junta ordered the soldiers into the streets. And again, the silence is sinking. With a sharp gun, people are forced to close their mouths. The monks are arrested or disappeared and with them disappear after each newspaper headline and TV coverage. What is now happening is that Burma is again being pushed out of the attention of world opinion. It's happened before. But we shouldn't let that happen again. We have to keep a constant eye on the situation. We must hold up a sustained political pressure against the military junta, and we must show firm support for the oppressed Burmese people. We know too much about this matter that we can forget. We know too much that we can be passive. In the view of the Christian People's Party, we have a moral duty to support the Burmese people. We must support their fight for democracy. We must support their demand for respect for human rights. We must demand that the junta release the elected leader, Aung San Suu Kyi. We must call for a halt to the attacks on the ethnic groups, such as the United Nations. The guys. We must condemn the terrorist fields of the military regime – with the burning down of villages, killings, rapes and other crimes. We have to provide assistance to the Burmese refugees from the junta's mercenaries. We must support the opposition living in exile. We must support the Radio Democratic Voice of Burma radio station in Oslo. We can strengthen national sanctions with more instruments, but unfortunately it does not seem like, for example, SV leader Kristin Halvorsen is as cut as finance minister as she was when she was in opposition, in terms of getting an effective economic boycott that hits the regime in the country. We have to tighten up the international sanctions that can speed up the end of the military dictatorship. Unfortunately, we know that it is not enough for countries on our side of the globe to protest. We have to work to make the United Nations more committed. But when it comes to the piece, a large neighbor of Burma who sits with the key to an effective pressure from the outside world. This applies not least to China, which serves to sell weapons to the military dictatorship. China is dealing with the generals. As long as the neighboring countries look through the fingers of the monsters, there's little hope for an effective boycott. During the popular uprising in the fall, the South African Nobel Prize winner, Bishop Desmond Tutu, made a radical proposal. He asked the world to boycott the coming Olympic games in China unless China took its responsibility seriously. It was clear that that proposal was perceived as dangerous by a Chinese regime that is very concerned about winning international goodwill and trust and is very sensitive to loss of reputation that could destroy Chinese exports and its economic growth. Everyone who has spoken today shares the desire for democracy in Burma. But unfortunately, I do not think the government is facing this matter as actively as I would like. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech is well and good, but in the view of the Christian People's Party not enough. In particular, this applies to the lack of faith in non-performing sanctions. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would like to see the Government's front of the Burma affair more offensive. We have a past here that obliges. With the impatience we have heard from almost all parties in the Grand Duchy, there is no lack of parliamentary coverage to do more. Finally, I would like to thank the representative of the Trettebergstien for having raised a very important debate, which must lead to that matter not disappearing from our attention in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e617	Once again, thank the representative Tritenbergstuen for keeping focus on human rights and Burma. The situation in Burma is very serious with a number of daily abuses – as we heard about yesterday at the latest – against fundamental human rights. The general's reaction to the protests initiated by the monks, who brought with them broad layers of the population, has been cruel: killing, torture, the rape of women and the deprivation of liberty are central. The Junta seems prepared to do everything in its power to crush the political opposition and ensure the brutal military regime a longer life span. It has been in power for 45 years and does not show signs of loosening the ropes. The left's instinct is to engage in dialogue, including with difficult partners. But there is nothing to suggest that dialogue is sufficient to move the generals of Burma to bet on democracy. Time and again they have shown that they do not want it. The only thing that seems to help is to put an increased pressure on the regime. This I believe is important because the possibilities for a change in Burma are greater now than in a long time. First of all, the country has had a large internal opposition that dares to stand up, despite all the represaries. Furthermore, there is an increased focus on China, India and Thailand as important players in order to bring about a peaceful transition to democracy in Burma. Furthermore, the United States, Japan and the EU have put in place or will take more stringent measures against the junta in Burma. Here's the sum of the outer pressure of great importance. It's a combination of external pressure against the junta and support for the opposition that can create a change. Thanks to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for their clear commitment to human rights and Burma. But the question is whether the red-green government goes far enough in its action against the junta in Burma. Could it have done more? The government has repeatedly demanded that the regime in Burma release Aung San Suu Kyi and all other political prisoners. It also supports the UN's work on Burma, including the efforts of the UN Special Envoy, Ibrahim Gambari. In addition, Norwegian embassies shall have been instructed to address the situation in Burma with central countries in the region, including China and India. They are supposed to be able to play a key role in promoting peaceful development in Burma. Furthermore, Norway will follow the EU, which will intensify its action against Burma. These are targeted sanctions aimed at the military dictatorship, such as the arms embargo, visa denial and the freezing of funds for members of the military regime. In the field of trade, the Government reiterates the almost ten-year-old call of the then Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik not to trade, invest in or travel to Burma. I believe this is a good start, but a lot indicates that this will not make a big impression on the generals of Burma. For a number of years, they have been subject to targeted sanctions that have not been shown to have a significant impact. I think the government could have gone something further. What I'm thinking about in the first place is using the State pension fund. It's a fund that's also big in international terms, and what we're doing about changes here will be noticed. More specifically, we should withdraw all companies in the fund that have large investments in Burma, especially in the oil sector and in the arms industry. The oil sector is a key industry for Burma. It provides the regime with high income, and Norway should indicate that we do not want to contribute to the junta’s income. French Total and Chinese PetroChina are two companies that the fund must immediately withdraw from its investments. The same applies to arms manufacturers. If it turns out that the oil fund has today invested in arms producers supplying Burma, the Minister of Finance should instruct the Fund to withdraw those investments. I believe that these measures relating to the State pension fund should be taken immediately. We should not take time to wait until after the announced review of the Ethics Council of the State Pension Fund – Foreign. It is now important to intensify the pressure against the junta in Burma. If not, it may take a long time before necessary and strongly desired changes come to Burma.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e639	I would also like to thank the representative Anette Trettebergstuen for initiating a debate on the situation in Burma and human rights more generally. It is also important that we, in the Norwegian uprising, now discuss our position on the brutal treatment to which the Burmese military regime has subjected its own people. In fact, in the autumn of many parliaments around the world, we have discussed how we can actively and offensively contribute to the advance of democracy in Burma. After all, Burma’s democratically elected leader is on the twelfth year of house arrest in the former capital of Rangoon. Norway’s policy in the field of Burma is also closely monitored internationally. This is probably explained by the fact that Norway has had a close relationship with the movement of democracy in Burma for many years. It is also the case that Aung San Suu Kyi in his time received the Nobel Peace Prize. It stands as a building above the Nobel Committee’s foresight awards that Aung San Suu Kyi in its time received the Nobel Prize, and it contributed to her further status in international work. In fact, many exile parliamentarians from Burma have also been accommodated in Norway, and several of us in Stortinget have an ongoing dialogue with them. First of all, I think the situation in Burma is now tragic. It's tragic to see that a little junta, who has now moved out of the capital of Rangoon, treats her own people and the monks in the way they do. It has to be remembered that Burma in its time was a major rice exporter in the region, and that it had some of the best universities and colleges here. Today, this is one of the least developed countries in the world, and, according to Transparancy International, it is the third most corrupt country in the world. When you have political discussions about Burma, I think it has to be taken into account that when a country is so corrupt, it is very demanding – and I think it is impossible – today to conduct economic activities in important areas without going against what should be fundamental ethical standards and human rights. Especially in areas such as rainforests, minerals, gemstones and oil and gas, these types of activities are organised in monopolies where most of the returns benefit generals and not locals. Therefore, Aung San Suu Kyi has encouraged international companies and countries not to invest in Burma under the prevailing conditions. I have had a dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs on these issues. This is because we have a committee in Stortinget working for a free and independent Burma, and we also run an international parliamentary network. That dialogue has been good. Sometimes, of course, I would have wanted the foreign minister to get on the field even faster. But I want to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs – I don't know if he will fully understand it – because last summer, when Minister for Development Erik Solheim was a bit out on a slip-right and wanted a unilateral lifting of the Norwegian sanctions against Burma, he concluded that it was not Norwegian policy. I have also registered and am pleased that Norway will now follow the EU as regards the important initiatives taken by the EU in order to implement sensible sanctions. However, I have said that I sometimes have the feeling that Norwegian foreign policy management is falling slightly behind in this matter. Of course, it is important to wait for what the EU does. But sometimes the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been a lot more daring. Then I have not fully agreed, for example. in the case of a unilateral approval of the Hamas-inspired government in the Middle East. There we didn't wait for the U.S. to say it like that. We did not wait for the European Union either. Norway could go on its own. In my opinion, it may not have proved to be the wisest political move that has been made. But in relation to Burma, it's made its own independent point that we have to wait for what everybody else does before we do anything in Norway. In the future, I hope that the Foreign Minister on this point is more daring and does not draw his legs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e652	The representative Valle was concerned about the situation of women. I also mentioned in my speech that the situation in Burma is particularly critical for female democracy activists. Burma has a very long tradition of having strong groups of female activists. The anticolony movement in its time became as strong as it became, because of the participation of educated women. Women fight on the fields side by side with Burmese men against British colonists. Because of this story, female activists are also particularly afraid. Juntaen has been hard on female activists in order to show the inhabitants and those who might have to protest, that their female elected leader, role model and role model, Suu Kyi, should also take care of themselves. During the protests last month, women were knocked down in a much more brutal way than the male activists experienced. Rape of nuns is just one example of that. Now a group of female activists have just sent a call for help to the UN ambassadors asking for help to protect Burma's women from the grotesque human rights violations they are being subjected to. They also say that they want the world to make an effort for a stronger focus on more power behind the demand for compliance with UN Resolution 1325. I hope that Norway will actively support this requirement. The representative Nybakk was concerned about the serious situation of the many refugees. While our attention is finally focused on the demonstrations and the junta's reaction to these, we must not forget that the junta is on the offensive in the eastern parts of Burma in a more bloody way than before, and that half a million people are fleeing in Burma now. It's important that we do what we can, not only to increase support for those who work inside Burma, but also to make an effort to meet the needs of border areas, which Nybakk was in. All interpellants tend to stop thanking for the debate. I'll do the same. I would like to thank the Foreign Affairs Committee for providing you, plus some honest exemption from other representatives who have participated. As parliamentarians, we have a responsibility to put the spotlight on forgotten conflicts, crises and abuses, and, as Mr Børge Burnde said, we have a Burma group here on the Stortinget that is trying to do so. For all those who follow the debate from their offices now, I can say that you can buy your indulgence not to have taken part in the debate, by actively participating in this group in the future. Although we cannot save the world all alone as big politicians, we can at least engage and show active and explicit support for all those who fight on the inside and outside of Burma to overthrow the sitting dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e665	I would like to thank the inter-pellant and the Foreign Affairs Committee and all those who have followed the debate on television for their support, and give the Stortinget a boost for their commitment to this matter. I have seen that there is broad support in this Chamber for the Government's policy. I believe that has been made clear. The fact that it is impatience and pressure, I would like to welcome you. To the representative Burnde I would like to say that I have nothing to accept from anyone. It's just bringing it. At the same time, I notice that there are shades between Burnde and Vallersnes in the view of the government's policy, but we can also live with those shades. It's important to support Burma, just a little parentheses to the right here, because we're doing it -- the support goes up by 55 million. kr in year. We do that despite the fact that the Right proposes to cut support for humanitarian contributions in the current year's budget by 350 million. kr. The Progress Party will cut its support for peace and reconciliation by DKK 1 billion. Anyway, we've managed to clear up space for this, and that's important to us. So I noticed that the representative Sahl thought the government should be more active. He did not make any concrete suggestions as to what he wanted. On the other hand, the representative Larsen did, and it might be in the same direction that Sahl thinks, namely the State pension fund. I believe it is wrong to claim that the Minister of Finance is not a driver here. She sits with an instrument that no other country has, and tries to draw a line on this that seems, that is lasting over time, and that Norway can stand for. National pension funds do not leave companies according to the countries they are in, but according to what they do. We've decided not to invest in Burmese state bonds. It's a powerful signal from the fund. We are also prepared to be able to withdraw investments from companies that had to start operations in Burma, such as the United Kingdom. gas pipelines, making a decision. We don't have to prove that they break ethical guidelines, but they'll be able to draw us out in such a case. We follow that closely, and I think it's being followed. Then there's an interesting discussion about alone or not. I think the production of the collection government is biased by those who have drawn that parallel, but let go. My impression – after talking to many, including in the region – is that we are facing a situation where we need to read the regional context, and where China, India, Thailand and ASEAN are doing what is absolutely crucial. We must therefore both take action to send a powerful signal to the junta and at the same time promote cooperation with these countries. I think the sanctions proposed by the EU now and which Norway is ready to support will hit 1 pst. of Burma's trade. The large bulk products exported by the Burmese people, such as: Recher, is in areas where there is no desire to correct, because it will hit people to such an extent – that is the regime we are after. As I said, Norway agrees to follow up on that kind of action, but we also want to find the balance, so that we can emphatically support Gambaris' actions and work on behalf of the United Nations, because we believe that his work inside Burma will be absolutely crucial to achieving the result we want over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e680	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e698	As a Norwegian citizen, as a member of the Stortinget and as a member of the Stortinget Justice Department, I am very proud of the work being done by Norwegian policemen in this country, but not least the job they also contribute to in other countries and in other parts of the world. I think that's part of describing the quality that they actually stand for, and it also helps to refer to some of the values that we have here in the country, of which other countries see the benefits, and where we might be able to help them get up at the same level as we do. For me, this interpellation has two angles. It has an angle that goes on the right state-building -- other countries don't have the democracy that we have, that we're used to, and that we're very proud of. The second angle is in concrete police cooperation. First of all, the rule of law is a key to success, and it is a key to democracy. I am also delighted to be a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and some of what is being discussed there are, for example. Afghanistan. Afghanistan is a challenge for the world society, it is a challenge for NATO, and it is a challenge for Norway. I think it's perhaps the most challenging thing for the Western world. If not the Western world through its approach, where it is able to contribute to a lasting and good solution that preserves the inhabitants of Afghanistan, the Western world will in a way have lost face and reputation as it will take a long, long time to rebuild. Who will do this job? Who will contribute to this? Yes, it is, among other things. Norwegian policemen, as well as others from the judiciary in Norway, are involved and contribute. There, the government has established the Wish well – if I don't remember completely incorrectly, it is the name – which is a place to retrieve the resources from. I think it's important that we have Norwegian citizens who travel out and contribute, who show that you have an international conscience, and that you want to make contributions internationally. The reason for that is that we want to show outward that we have some values that we're proud of, and that we want others to participate in. That's why it's important, for my part at least, to be involved in and support the work we're doing on building legal states in other countries. I also think that's the only way to fight corruption. A country that is corrupt will never function, because then it will be people's motive for economics and other benefits that will rule, not to take care of the population and the needs it needs. In this way, democracy building is a key to success. Norway has a long tradition. Once again, I think we should look at what is happening in Afghanistan. There has sometimes been a discussion about policemen working outside, how to do things there, and how to transfer them here. But I think we can definitely do that. There have also been people from other countries who have come to Norway to learn how to do things here. This has been discussed after, unfortunately, someone has dropped off and disappeared while staying in Norway. But I still think it's important that we let others come to us to see how we're doing. There's several reasons for that. The most important thing is to show them that it is possible to have a democracy, that it is possible to have a police force that is not corrupt, that it is possible to have courts that are not corrupt, and that it is possible to have a prison system that is humane. That's what we're proud of, and we expect. If we believe anything about this, our efforts should be strengthened and it should be increased in order to assist other countries as well. If not, at least we should not be looking at the problems we ourselves face as a consequence of crime committed in these countries. This is, at my discretion, perhaps the best way to provide u-help, which again in the long run will be help to self-help for us. Law and order is in a way the support of any society. That is why I believe that our efforts there should definitely be strengthened. The second part of this is what goes on in international police cooperation. Norway is also an active player here. We have Interpol, we have Europol, we have Schengen, and we have Prüm cooperation. We're working on a lot of arenas. The challenge, I think, is probably to communicate back to the Stortinget and the rest of the Norwegian community what we're actually doing. But more importantly, what do we achieve with this? By describing what we're achieving, we'll also describe what we wouldn't have gotten if we hadn't been involved in this. A parentheses: I expect that it is permissible for me to point out to the Council of State that in the budget position, for example. states that Interpol is an international criminal organisation. I expect it to say that it's a crime-fighting organization. But I'm going to leave it to you – it's better for the Council of State to comment on it later, for example. is a typographical error. But it was a little bit interesting to read. I thought Interpol stood for completely different things than crime, but okay enough. Through police cooperation, it will also be that we take care of our own society, and perhaps the most important reason why we do so, is the fight against terrorism. There has been a presentation by the Minister for Foreign Affairs earlier today on international cooperation, such as: has focused on contributing through such cooperation to preventing ourselves from being exposed to events that we do not want to be exposed to. Countries in our neighbourhoods, such as England and Spain, have been exposed to events that we had not dreamed of being possible. There have been threats to Denmark and threats to our own country. It shows that international cooperation is important to prevent and prevent this also happening here in the country. There are also other issues that are important in terms of police cooperation, such as: combating child pornography; There we have some bigger challenges than what I think we want to take on. It was a pretty big international action in 2002 that was called Pendulum, if I don't remember completely wrong. There, at my discretion, the Council of State has a challenge that we may not have wanted. So if I'm not completely wrong, all that material still hasn't gone through by Kripos, because you don't have the capacity and the ability to do it. It seems to me that it is gross, primarily for the sake of the children who are being abused, but perhaps the most in view of the loss of reputation that affects the Norwegian police if they do not manage to follow this up. We now have another big thing going on, and I hope we get out better here than what we did in the previous one. Sometimes Norway is asked to provide assistance outside. I have looked at what we are doing or not, and then I saw that early this year the United Nations asked Norway for assistance in connection with the killing of the Prime Minister in Lebanon, but we lacked competence. Once again, when the UN, which is one of the pillars of our international cooperation, asks for help, and we can't deliver, I think it's doing something about our credibility, because it shouldn't be that Norway is only perceived as a sponsor, as a country that signs the checks when things have to be solved. It should also be that we contribute with personnel and in other ways, that we have greater width than a checkbook. I think that would be good for all of us. Another thing that is also a challenge, and that I see that the Minister of Justice has been working a lot on lately, is extradition agreements. I think the more extradition agreements we have with other countries, the better it will be for us. This will show that Norway is taking international crime seriously. We take seriously the crimes committed by citizens who do not belong naturally here, and we show that Norway should not be tempted. In the worst case, you can have so unhappiness that you actually have to zone in your own country. Here I give the Council of State honor. I could also imagine that the Council of State here considered whether Norway should increase its efforts, for example. by sharing costs with those countries who agree to this. For us it'll be positive no matter what kind of angle we have on it. In fact, I think it could have had a positive effect. In any event, the objective must be to combat cross-border crime with all legal means, and that Norway, through its position as a well-off country, a well-functioning society, should be in the first place, not only economically but also in terms of contributing internationally. There, I guess we have a common challenge and a common goal of getting there. The reason for this is, of course, that any action we can take out, in most of the contexts, will be a positive contribution here at home. I had the pleasure of visiting the Norwegian ambassador in Serbia early in the spring. He told me a little bit about the Balkan route and the challenges there. Of course, when he tells us that simple steps down there significantly reduce crime here, we should of course listen to it. We were in Montenegro and were briefed on the situation – about drugs smuggled through Albania and through that part of Europe, which are the longest on the map, i.e. in the Nordic region. It is clear that if we can help to take action in the neighbourhoods – as we will see positive again here at home – it will be in everyone's favor. So my challenge to the Council of States will be: Does he agree that we should have an increased focus and bet – and not least that we should make it attractive to all the Nordics who want to contribute – in order to combat international and cross-border crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e730	Let me first say that this is one of the most important interpellations we can have in the field of justice this fall. I think the inter-pellant is taking a commendable initiative. I believe that this field to a much greater extent than before, first of all, requires a different perspective on how we see the crime of society – which was also involved in the interpellant – in relation to contexts. Production of heroin in Afghanistan is once again in the streets of Oslo — as an example. The second thing that makes the interpellation particularly important is that we need to increase our political focus on the international instruments we have in terms of combating crime. And finally, we need greater legitimacy in relation to the actions built up around international crime. That's why I'm happy with what the interpellant says about bringing together a political majority, so that party politics doesn't go into such important police work, as important judicial work as this actually is. Serious cross-border crime poses a major challenge for us – both for law enforcement agencies and in terms of more police, investigational. Such crime causes great losses to individuals and society. It may be suitable for undermining the safety and stability of everyday life, and it is advanced and professionalised to such an extent that it may be extremely complex to reveal. This means that effective countermeasures must be developed at all times. The pedophilia issue to which the interpellant now refers is a very good example of how internationalized this type of activity has become and how it makes it difficult to investigate. But it's also a very good example of what international cooperation actually means. It is also an example that we in Norway have the ability to participate in this arena, as well as the ability to handle these matters. With regard to that matter, I really hope that cooperation will bear fruit. Nationally, we have developed a law that is currently well adapted to investigations and to the organisation of cases of organised and international crime. The government is concerned that, overall, the criminal justice chain acquires the competences and resources necessary for prioritising such cases. Not least, recent efforts have been made to ensure that the police have an organisation that is able to solve this type of crime in a professional way. The results have also been shown by several successful cases of relatively large size where a conviction has been handed down. Organized crime is known as cross-border crime. In order for the market and thereby the profit to be high enough, it is necessary for too many criminals to operate internationally. Today it's easier than ever. We live to a great extent in a frontierless world with both technology and technology that makes movement quite easy. The counter-terrorism here is undoubtedly an intensification of international cooperation on a broad front. I have chosen to set work to strengthen Norway's role in international police cooperation as one of my main priorities in the ministry. I believe that this needs to be reflected in how we actually organise the administration, among other things. in the Ministry of Justice. Leadership has been given to Norwegian police authorities to engage in international cooperation where best results can be achieved. Efforts must be made to work in the central multilateral bodies, where all the important actors meet in order to design common legislation and strategies, to which I will come back. However, as Mr Ellingen also points out, it is important to find solutions bilaterally, in cooperation with other countries. Among the multinational arenas, Europe, and hence the EU, is important. I have been engaged in active cooperation with the EU in the field of justice. As Chairman of the Joint Council at ministerial level last year, I was given the opportunity to conduct the political discussions between the Ministers of Justice of the EU countries and others on Schengen on the drafting of new rules for Schengen cooperation. This cooperation, in my opinion, gives us a unique place in a comprehensive international effort to reduce the spread of cross-border crime. The Schengen acquis gives us, for example: opportunities for effective exchange of information and faster cooperation on judicial assistance in criminal matters. This cooperation and the fact that we had this role last year also helped us to get closer to the European states. Among other things, the EU Commission’s Vice-President chose to spend three days in Norway with the undersigned, just to discuss common challenges. The visit of Franco Frattini I think must be said to be very valuable for judicial cooperation. The government has chosen to place great emphasis on actively exploiting other formal cooperation agreements we have with the EU in the field of justice. This is not least the contractual cooperation we have with Europol and Eurojust, which we, among other things, have. see the fruits of these days. There are great opportunities here to prevent and solve organised and international crime in our neighbourhood. In this respect, let me add that the Government is in favour of negotiating an agreement with the EU on Norway’s accession to EU legislation on the improved exchange of essential information in modern police cooperation. This is the so-called Prüm Treaty, which has now been partly integrated into EU cooperation, and where some provisions on police and criminal law cooperation have been implemented in EU legislation. A link here will enable us to share information from important police registers with the police authorities of the EU countries, among others. DNA. It is an exploratory revolution if we have access to the DNA registers of the other EU countries. It is very important, as the interpellant also pointed out, that Norway does not become an island where criminals can avoid this very possibility of being checked out against the register. This will be an additional instrument of great importance for Norway to resolve international criminal cases, and that is why I have made a lot of efforts to have contact, including in the area of drugs. bilaterally, with a number of Justice Ministers in EU cooperation, in order to be accepted for such an accession agreement to Norway. The same applies to the EU agreement on settlement transfer – now I do not have all the resources – it is also particularly important. If Norway remains outside the scope of searching in the DNA and fingerprint registers, and it is therefore also possible to avoid the risk of being sent back to the home country for settlement, Norway could be a tempting place for many to seek refuge in in order to commit criminal acts. The fact that we want settlement transfer agreements with other countries bilaterally, but particularly multilaterally through the Council of Europe and the European Union, is precisely because we see that it prevents further crime in Norway, among other things. through better rehabilitation and the fact that you do not actually get the opportunity to organise new crime while you son in this country. It also has some impact on the burden on prisons here in Norway. Then I must also mention that the Nordic countries have long traditions of police cooperation. We have well harmonised laws and good practices for both legal and operational cooperation in individual cases. Among other things, we cooperate on the deployment of liaison officers. I would like to mention here that during the Nordic Minister of Justice meeting in the summer of 2006, initiatives were taken on my part to strengthen prosecution cooperation between the Nordic countries, including the Nordic countries. in the difficult cases, whether international law offences, trafficking in human beings or any other type of organised crime. A working group has been set up to look at this issue and to report during the winter of 2008, led by State Attorney Pål Lønseth from Norway. We in the Ministry of Justice in Norway provide the secretariat. This is also important work. I have invited the Nordic Justice Ministers to Norway on 4 December, among others. to Kripos, where we have the opportunity to discuss this cooperation more closely. I would also like to point out the cooperation between several courts in the Baltic Sea region, and I would like to get further into it. The interpellant mentioned our cooperation in Interpol. I fully agree with his description of what Interpol actually is. There's no disagreement about that. We have two police representatives in Interpol's headquarters in Lyon. I've been there seagoing. The government believes that we need to strengthen our participation in this worldwide work. That's the background that we have when it comes to, among other things. Interpol's picture database of sexually abused children, assault pictures, has chosen to specifically strengthen Interpol in the next two years by 2.4 million. kr, so that you can, among other things: may be better able to identify images and videos showing gross abuse of children. We have been a driver to further develop the database and the type of investigation, which is interpol cooperation between the G8 countries. This new base gives researchers in each country direct access to Interpol’s existing database for abused children. The database contains half a million images of nearly 20,000 victims. In this way, the police can work more easily in parallel with attackers while identifying victims of abuse and preventing the distribution of images and videos. Now it's time to go out, but I want to point out that the work that the interpellant also points to, putting out police liaisons and police officers from the Power well, as we call it, is particularly important to us. Contributing to the establishment of a judicial system within the framework of legal certainty is particularly important. The efforts made include: in Kabul, to bring it forward, is the future of a peaceful Afghanistan. In this way, I very much agree with the interpellant that this is aid that really benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e766	I record that I bombed on the type of well, but I expect that I will be forgiven for it. Let's do the last one first. I should like to thank the Council of State for a very positive response. I really appreciate that. It also shows an international commitment that is absolutely necessary. I'm going to say again a few words about what I've seen as important in Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, there is a lot of military effort, fighting to combat local gangs and others. But I don't think you can fight for a solution. In parallel with combating gangs and other criminals, a civil dimension needs to be built up. If not, there will be no comfort, no hope for the Afghan people, because there will only be a difference in, almost speaking, the dialect and the lining of the various fighters. It doesn't help in the long run. At the same time as it's a military effort, you have to build up a civil dimension. If you don't get out of the problem you have in Afghanistan today. So over to the other thing that the council took up, and that I totally agree with him in. I think a major challenge is the large amount of money in the criminal image. What will society look like in a few years' time when those who commit a great deal of crime are washed up and driven into legal activity? Then our society and others face an even bigger problem than we have today. Then it gets a lot worse to track down the background of these means, and where they come from. So the criminals have done the big trick of committing crime and then they're left with a legal business. Then they suddenly became legal citizens who have legal values and legal ownership, even though the origin is criminal. Then we'll clear out some lines that are important, dividing crime from other activities. I think that's a major challenge. It should also focus on stopping money laundering, stopping refinancing — if you can use that concept of criminal means and ploughing them into legal enterprises. I'm not sure if I have a clear answer to how we can do this, but that we must have it clearly in focus, is raised above any doubt. I think key people towards several of these things will be liaisons working out. The previous Committee on Justice, of which the current Minister of Justice was a member, was among others: in Thailand and learned a lot about how to work there with people who come here through trafficking and other things. But also when it comes to repatriating people with illegal residence here in the country, the liaisons in some contexts make a job that is totally invaluable, because they have a local network and local knowledge of what is happening there. I believe, as I said earlier, that any effort we make at home will pay off in diversity locally, and it will also reduce our overall challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e777	When it comes to the question of our international operations militaryly, I have to say that a total mass, and also the previous government, was very clear that they should have a clear civil dimension. Our efforts in Afghanistan show that. Now it's a very very canvas to bleach. But it is a canvas that must be bleached; if not, we will lose. So the efforts made by our policemen in Kabul, those who come from the Power well, who also represent the courts, are absolutely crucial in getting an understanding of the need to bind a nation-wide building against the legal guarantees that we care about very much. In northern Afghanistan, we also see that Norwegian criminal services are involved in improving prison conditions. I have visited one of the prisons. There's a need for improvement, to say it nicely. But at the same time it shows that it is possible to do very much in large areas, even in such a country, which is so tired, which is of great importance. Then I will also be allowed to mention that in the government's work on obtaining accession agreements to the EU, we are now conducting a comprehensive consultation round with many. I've had a meeting with the Portuguese Presidency this summer. I have met with great goodwill with regard to Norway being able to work out accession agreements to the Prüm Agreement, where we are thus given the opportunity to search this DNA register, which will mean a great deal to solve the crime committed on Norwegian soil by foreign citizens. There's going to be a lot of police resources at home if we get more hits, just to be honest. We've had meetings recently. We've been to Bulgaria and Romania, and I've also been visiting Russia. On the 13th of this month, we're going to Lithuania to meet the Minister of Justice there to address exactly what the interpellant is dealing with, the possibility of looking at increased cooperation and perhaps bilateral agreements. We have concluded bilateral police cooperation agreements with Bulgaria and Russia. We have reinforced the cooperation agreement now, and it was signed when we were there. It's on the stairs an agreement with Romania. The visit to Lithuania is also intended to see whether we can do something with Lithuania to prevent the crime committed by citizens of Lithuania, and also to look at the possibility that more of Lithuania’s sons are in their home country. There's the joy I can say that the work that the government was doing last year to get faster expulsion decisions for those who are sons in Norwegian prisons, and that we are using the agreements that now exist, among other things. under the auspices of the Council of Europe, has contributed to a significant increase in the number of zones now present in the country of origin. The number of syllables is not large, it's probably up in twenty now, but it's increased considerably, and I have hopes of larger growth in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e788	The world has become smaller, we travel more, and the borders are more open both on land and online. This gives us new challenges in the fight against crime. In order to combat this, it is important, as Mr Ellingsen says, that we cooperate with other countries. I want to focus on one of the international agreements for police cooperation in which the Government wants to engage in negotiations, namely the so-called Prüm Agreement. The councils were so far within it in their posts. It was concluded in May 2005 between seven EU countries. In retrospect, a further nine Member States have declared that they will join it, including the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Finland and Sweden. During the German Presidency of the EU, it has been negotiated and agreed to transfer part of the rules of the Prüm Agreement to EU legislation. The cooperation provided by the Prüm Agreement clearly improves the possibilities for cross-border police cooperation in relation to today's opportunities. The agreement creates new framework conditions, both legal and technical, which improve and streamline the police’s efforts to prevent and investigate crime, including terrorism. A number of the possibilities that are created do not exist at all. The arrangements currently in place at the Nordic level and through Interpol do not come up against what the Prüm agreement establishes. The absence of controls at the internal borders of the Schengen area calls for good police and prosecution cooperation in order to conduct an effective fight against crime. In summary, the Prüm Agreement contains rules for participating countries to have access to directly search each other’s DNA registers, fingerprints and car registers, as well as rules for joint police actions and the exchange of information in connection with major events and to prevent terrorism. The Prüm Agreement requires all participating countries to have a national DNA registry for investigation. No central base is created. Participating countries shall allow other participating countries in the investigation of criminal offences to apply directly in the register. State Council Storberget was concerned about how important this is to get a breakthrough in matters. The applicant will only be informed whether there is a matching DNA profile or not. If you get a hit, you have to contact the country in whose register you got a hit. It is this country’s national rules, including the general rules on legal aid, that will determine whether access to additional information can be granted. The Prüm Agreement lays down rules on the unsolicited exchange of personal information in order to prevent criminal offences and to maintain public order and security at major events, in particular sporting events and European summits. The exchange of information shall take place in accordance with the national rules of each supplying country. Today, the Schengen Agreement only provides for the exchange of information for the prevention and investigation of criminal offences, not for the maintenance of the order and security of major events. However, in the Nordic police cooperation it follows from the police cooperation agreement that information can also be exchanged in order to protect the general order and order. Prevention is strengthened by the Prüm Agreement. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of international police cooperation to combat crime at home and abroad. The ‘Koala’ issue in the media now, about paedophile networks starting in Australia, is just an example of how important it is that we are on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e811	The crime scene has changed dramatically in recent years. Increased internationalisation and the use of more advanced technologies make serious criminal acts more difficult to combat. Terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking and other forms of gross crime require a judicial policy adapted to the modern crime scene. In the last growing-up period, the Bondevik II government provided a number of important steps in the law to ensure that Norway is better equipped to meet today’s and tomorrow’s crime scene. It helps to ensure better protection for citizens and police a better tool against terrorism and gross international organised crime. We have come a long step closer to a law that is able to meet new and major challenges. At the same time, there is reason to stress that good law alone is in no way sufficient to succeed in the fight against international organised crime. We rely on good and well-functioning international cooperation across the justice sector with a common objective of preventing and persecuting cross-border crime. Norway has entered into commitments through conventions and agreements with several organisations and countries. It is positive that the Minister of Justice is committed to following up and further developing this cooperation. Nevertheless, in order for the Norwegian police and prosecution authorities to be able to respond to requests for assistance or communications from police authorities of other countries, they are dependent on sufficient resources. A real cut in the 2008 police budget of 120 million. kr is a very poor contribution by the Minister of Justice and the Red-Green Government. The Internet has made the world smaller and given us great opportunities for information exchange and entertainment. Unfortunately, the Internet also has several negative aspects; the spread of child pornography is one of the most serious. For the Right, there is a reason why good international police cooperation is particularly important. That's a prerequisite for protecting the very weakest from atrocities. In recent days, it has also become known that international police work has revealed a global pedophilia network with branches also to Norway. Last week opened – finally – the first children's home in Bergen. Children’s homes are a targeted measure to co-locate different services. The idea is that children who have been subjected to violence and abuse should meet one door to the helpers. Fortunately, there is today cross-political agreement that this is a significant contribution to strengthening the legal certainty of children. However, good assistance is scarce when the vast majority of victims of such abuse remain nameless and unidentified and are far from being able to reach the auxiliaries. It's a huge challenge to identify the children who are depicted, so that they can be helped out of a cruel existence. If we're going to be able to help these kids, we're totally dependent on international cooperation. A pictured child can be anything from a street child in Brazil or Thailand to the neighboring girl or boy in a Norwegian town or village. It's a laborious detective work you're facing, and it's very resource-intensive. To the right, Norway wants to become a leading country in this work. We need to become a driving force internationally in order for the identification work to be given far higher priority than what the Government is doing today. And with the labyrinth police effort the government adds up to next year's state budget, it seems that there has to be a government shift before it becomes a reality and these children get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e830	SV commends the representative Ellingen's interpellation and the intention behind it. We boast that it focuses on such an important field of action as the fight against international crime. State Council posts show that the Government and the SV are very concerned with combating international crime. There is a great deal of resources to combat crime, from this government and from Norway. I agree with the previous speakers, and I don't need to spend any more time on it. I want to make a few words about another aspect of crime that I think is important, namely the prevention of crime. We have to fight crime. At the same time, we must prevent crime. We have to try to remove the causes of crime, and we have to create opportunities for people not to commit crime, especially in those countries where we now see that crime has a good track record. Then we have to help people who receive education, health care, safety and safety in their everyday lives, and work. That is how we believe that crime can best be combated. Take education, e.g. We all know that a person who has an education has a higher threshold for committing crime. Take health, e.g. When people die as flies in poor countries, and the children have no choice but to commit crime to feed themselves, or to obtain the most necessary things in life, even food, it is easy for them to resort to crime. Then it is important that we contribute to improving the health provision of these people. Take peace and security, for example: in Afghanistan. We know that a lot of heroin is grown. We know that this is a problem for our children in Norway and elsewhere in Europe. Then it is much more important for us to ensure that these people in Afghanistan have the opportunity to feed themselves by legal means and legally to work. Then it's important that we contribute to these people getting such an opportunity. We have, as I said at the outset, said yes to the desire of the Progress Party to combat crime. It's a common task for all of us in this society. Then we want to send a greeting back and hope that the Progress Party agrees that we must fight against the reasons why many people commit crime in the poor world. It's international solidarity, and it's in our own enlightened interest. That's where we should be together, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e841	I thank you for the contributions of those who have been involved in the debate. I see that the commitment is great, I perceive that the interest is great, and I also perceive that we have a very similar position here. I also think that I have most people with me when I say, if we can do something out, it will also help us at home. Then we're back to the essence of it: how can we affect, and how should we do that? Of course, I share much of what the representative Akhtar Chaudhry said at the end about combating poverty. Again, an example from the previous justice committee, which was in Laos, one of the world's ten poorest countries: a project was being worked through NORAD to reduce opium cultivation and move on to vegetable cultivation. It was a huge success. The most exciting thing about it was that the cultivation of vegetables and food actually gave better payment than the opium cultivation did, and competition was significantly less, which made it twice as attractive. It was, at least for my part, a great experience to see that it is possible to do things that you might not think were possible. In this way we clearly have international commitments, and through them we will also be able to reap a positive gain here at home. But then it is also a fact that we have just completed budgetary consultations in connection with next year's budget. And I have to say, with respect to reporting, that I have trouble seeing that there has been something very hallelujah atmosphere during these hearings. I perceive that very many are concerned about next year's bet from the red-green government. I don't take from them verbal ambitions – in no way. But the question becomes whether realism is present in terms of the ability to carry out all the good intentions, or whether it becomes like a Northern Norse weather report in the summer: we ask for good weather, but it is not always we get it. Sometimes the bad has been reasonable for a long time, without us being able to do anything about it. It might be easier to do something here. Here you have all the possibilities to do what you want to do. We have a majority government that can do everything it wants to do. I'm even sure some of the things the majority government wants to do, the opposition will actually back up about, because it'll be in everyone's interest. I am reasonably sure that we will agree on the fight against cross-border crime. There's probably some nuances in the vision of instruments, and there's nuances in the view of the volume of it. But I also think a main challenge must be to make it attractive for those who live here in the country to contribute. Then I think of each of us in the first place, but perhaps especially of those who are going to participate not from the well of desire, but from the well of strength, that they are being arranged, that they are getting credit for the job they are doing, not just through a financial contribution, but that you also point out the status and value of the job they are doing, actually for all of us here at home. Sometimes, you guys, we might forget that the big whole is made up of several pieces. If you take out one piece, you lose the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e852	I'm glad we agree on the international efforts that the Government is now doing. It has been important for the Government and for me that we have been given the opportunity to explain the action we are now taking, in particular in relation to the Prüm agreement and the settlement transfer agreement, and I understand that we have a broad consensus on such a commitment. But I have to say that I react very strongly to the Right's comments on this matter. First of all, the fact that you go straight to budget questions and pull in babysitting and some of those things, we get to live with. The second is that I actually think that some demands should be made on the content of what you refer to in relation to the budget. So it's not like we're doing something cut in the Norwegian police budget. If that is the case that this draft budget is a cut-off proposal, it has been massive cut off by the previous government, which I will not take in my mouth. The police budget has not been cut this year, but it has increased, among other things. the ordinary police budget increased by 384 million. kr. A good part of it goes to wage and price increases, but it makes a lot of it go back to growth. So there's nothing cut either in Oslo or here. What's the problem with police action, also internationally, is that we notice that there's a shortage of teams. Had they been in government in 2003, we would probably have had almost 200 more policemen to use, among other things. to international operations this year, or to fill the posts that the Right wanted to fill in the election campaign, as they did with paper figures. I see why they used paper figures, because they had nothing else. When we talk about both international and national bets, it's important to bear in mind that if we're going to get more pressure into the police, into international cooperation, we're going to have to train more police officers, and that's also what the government has done. With regard to our commitment to this budget, I would like to clarify once again: this is one of the biggest initiatives in the field of justice policy that has been in the budgets. It's close to NOK 1.9 billion in terms of investments and operations. So this is a very big bet, and it does not mean a cut against the police. If you read the budget that way, you have to explain it, and then you'd better get corrected or go to the police community's website and see what the immediate reaction from the police community was. It didn't matter that it was a cut, and it's an organization that tends to say from if it comes cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e865	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e883	Labour shortages have become a growing problem in a number of professions and sectors of society. Now we can also add the police to this list. This has resulted in unoccupied jobs and security cabals that do not go up, even in our cities. A difficult manning situation has become even more complicated since new working time regulations entered into force in the police this summer. The question is what remedial measures the Government is willing to put in place to ensure a good quality police service throughout Norway. It is true that in two to three years' time we will get bigger coal out of the Police College, but the Right believes that the time has come for the police to take a more modern view of their seniors. Instead of sending 50-year-olds to retirement courses, we should build a police profession that values and tells the seniors that we still need them. It is my claim that the state is dependent on the private sector in the development of a senior policy that takes into account that those who can imagine standing beyond the fixed retirement age will not be punished, but premiered for it. When experienced policemen are retired from 57 years of age, we know that most of them are healthy and spread and have profits to be able to continue beyond retirement if the employer is able to do so. At the same time, when there is a fact that many places in the police are not getting qualified applicants, or facing a complicated crime scene, it is in the interests of society that police officers who are motivated to do so can continue in their jobs for a few more years, under conditions that make it attractive to work rather than to retire. It is with some wonder that I have read the draft 2008 budget for justice, where the theme of senior police policy is riddled with one sentence: ‘In the short term, measures that allow police officers to stand longer in service can have a positive effect, while an increase in the number of students will only have an effect in the longer term.’ If it is the case that the ministry has been thinking in senior courses, why is it not spent on such measures in 2008, when police Norway is screaming for more people? In a written question to the Minister of Justice, answered on 26 September 2007, about the critical manning situation, in which I specifically challenged the Council of State on measures for seniors, I received a disappointing response, yes a non-substance response, at this crucial point. The Council of State stated in its response that the police were to be strengthened by 257 million. SEK 62 more places in the Police College since the government change. To put this into perspective, it is worth noting that since 2005, the state budget has grown by over DKK 100 billion. While this government has added 62 new students, the Bondevik government actually increased during its period the recording at the Police College by 120 students. But that was also the case at the time that more came out of education than there were actually available police jobs for. That is why it was also granted in the middle of the year to allow the entire trained coal to enter the active police service. On the right, a stepping-up plan has been programmed to build a larger police force in Norway. We believe that this is necessary in order to meet a more demanding crime scene nationally and internationally, in order to make the vision of close-up police a reality, and in order for the police to have time and profit to carry out targeted crime prevention work, whether through police cooperation with the municipalities or in particular efforts aimed at children and young people in general and in the risk zone in particular. I have registered with pleasure that there is cross-political agreement on the need for a larger police force. The right therefore has considerable expectations of the work undertaken by the Ministry of Justice through the so-called crew project. But we have to admit that we won't be reaping results of this project for a while yet, and education at Police College takes as well as three years. In the short term, if we are to solve the policy area we are experiencing in some places in the country, we need to find measures that work here and now, and that the Government must be willing to finance with fresh money. In my dialogue with both police and trade union leaders, everyone agrees that it is both important and useful to put in place a set of tools that provide the flexibility needed for each police officer to keep his most experienced people for a few more years. I have been informed that the annual departure from the police due to age is approx. 250-300 officials and women. If you had managed to persuade 20 pst. This is equivalent to a figure of 50–60 policemen — or the same as the increase in the number of students at the Police College with today’s government. This illustrates the importance of the reserve of labour in the senior corps. It is a reality that teachers have for a long time been able to slow down teaching time towards the end of their professional career with wages as before. If these are measures developed in one part of the public sector, is there any reason why no similar schemes should be allowed to be adapted for other groups of professions on which there is a shortage? In my interview with the Minister of Justice, I point to various factors that I believe can motivate older workers to go a round or two more before they want to enjoy the retirement life. I have been curious and asked myself a little about what is happening to older policemen who themselves want to continue. The stories that are told are of little value to the Norwegian police. Find the Abrahamsen at the Oslo Police Department was this summer the very symbol of the absence of senior policy in the police action. When, in my opinion, one of the most competent professionals in the Oslo police force continues to work on the outside of the police house in Greenland, there is a waste of valuable political importance at a time when the Oslo police have increasing challenges associated with heavier and more serious organised crime. The right now challenges the Minister of Justice and the government to take the necessary steps to develop a government senior policy such as: can provide police management with adapted tools to stimulate experienced police officers to take an additional increase in their professional career. The reward may, for example: take the form of a special pay supplement, extended holiday, reduced working time, reduced watch load or a combination thereof. The right is concerned that incentives must be designed in such a way as to provide flexibility for individual workers. A forward-looking employer policy for the police must ensure that further involvement by retirement age is a natural part of the employee interview in the years prior to retirement. In this way you can test the motivation of the individual to continue. I am aware that a cooperation project has been launched between the Police Directorate and the Police Union to test out senior policy actions in Hordaland. Then I would like to ask the Council of State why this attempt is being made so limited. What about Finnmark, where the police problems are in the queue? Life expectancy in Norway continues to increase, and that means that we have to live a long life — even after we become retired, perhaps 20–30 years. Health is even better, and it is therefore not so strange that more and more older people are prepared to make an extra social effort, if someone needs them. Right-wing appeals today to the Government to implement senior measures that can take effect in all police districts and that can address some of the police shortages that many people feel on their bodies — whether it is the police chief who does not get applicants for jobs, or the public who experience that the police are no longer so close to them. In concrete terms, the right will propose to strengthen the 2008 police budget by just over 100 million. kr, so that operations can be continued at today's level, but also in order to create room for bets on seniors who can expect to pull in uniform for an additional year or more, when they are so used. It is my hope that the government parties will help to give the police budget a much-needed boost before Christmas when the justice budget is to be discussed in December. That's what the police deserve. It will also give us the power to act and the opportunity to implement a senior policy in the Norwegian police force.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e926	The government wants a close and strong police force with county officials' offices and offices all over the country. In order to create more security, we have, as I was inside instead, strengthened the police by half a billion since we joined. That's what the right-hand side calls cut. The police have been strengthened with a total of 260 million. kr during 2006 and 2007. Together, the police budget, as I said in my place, has been strengthened by approx. 245 million. SEK in 2008, among others with the focus on DNA in the investigation, the continuation of the strengthening of the police in the revised national budget, the strengthening of the EU's external border fund, increased efforts to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, increased efforts to combat violence in close relations, the establishment of three new children's homes and increased efforts for relatives and insulters. The most important thing for recruitment is that we train more policemen. In 2007, 432 students were admitted to the Police College. We're going to continue this high recording in 2008, and that's the maximum in terms of the capacity the high school actually has, so now there's the possibility of getting some additional capacity elsewhere. Such a high recording has only been recorded twice in the past, and – follow it – it was in 1997 and 1998. On a number of occasions, the right has had the opportunity to adjust the recording at the Police College, but has adjusted it down to a low level in 2003. The reason why there are too few policemen available is that there have been too few police students over many years. The large reduction in the number of students at the School of Police came in 1999 under the Government of Bondevik I, when the number of students was reduced by 181 students, from 430 to 249 students. As a result of a reduction in the level, the coals leaving the Police College three years after admission have been relatively small since 2002 — when the Right was in position. Throughout the time of the previous government in power, the choice was made, among other things. from the right to do nothing material about this before the last year when you moved up to 360. This resulted in the graduation of 239 students from the Swedish Police College in 2004, 235 students in 2005 and 290 students in 2007. When we know that the police districts today want to hire between 80 and 160 officials for whom they have the funds, but for whom they cannot recruit, it would be incredibly important if the previous government had done their job with regard to admission to the Police College. It's important to bring the story into this, because it gives us clear imperatives for what we should do in the future. The first to next year, the number of graduates will increase slightly, to about 360. This government, since we joined, has chosen to do something to help provide more police officers. But it's an important recognition that it takes three years to train policemen. I also show that we have to think in other ways to get more resources to the police and to get more police force out of the police we actually have. Our DNA stake with both a bill on a large central register, which is now being significantly expanded, and also the 64 million. kr in the next year’s budget, for analytical capacity and central funding, will be an unusually important step in strengthening police force. I am now working to secure a police force with a service structure, a security cooperation and a crew that takes care of the public's need for service and preparedness. The Directorate of Police has therefore been entrusted with the task of addressing the training and staffing needs of police-trained personnel and, in the case of personnel with other training, for a period up to 2015. The project will include, inter alia: look at the impact of new work environment legislation, how it affects the possibility of flexible service arrangements, working time provisions. That report will be available in June next year, but we have asked, from the Ministry's point of view, to be kept partly orientated now before Christmas, so that we will have the opportunity to build up future budgets based on the considerations that the inter-pellant considers affordable, among other things. With regard to seniors, but also with regard to the question of being able to use more civilians to deal with the more classic civil tasks, so that we get the police officers out where they're going to be to fight crime. The Police Directorate has therefore started a working group to analyse the recruitment situation and to propose measures to improve the recruitment of service units with such problems over time. It has been found that the vacancy due to lack of applicants or unqualified applicants is between 80 and 160 jobs on a national basis. The number is low in relation to the total number of police posts, which is probably 8 000 officials and women, but I'm still very concerned that we are going to remove this vacancy. Thus, although the unemployment rate is not high, the recruitment problem is a challenge for the police districts/services that experience it. In the past, there were mostly outstretches and small units that had recruitment problems. Now, at times, we feel that even centrally located police districts are experiencing the same problems. That's why there's reason to look at a change in the task flow in the districts, which I've been in the past, and there's also good reason to look at the police's senior policy. The general age limit in the country is 70 years. The size has set a lower age limit than the general one for a number of jobs. This applies, inter alia, to: for police officers whose age is 60 and 63 years and who are able to retire from an age pension of 57 and 60 years respectively. It is therefore important now, as the interpellant also points out, that senior policy measures are implemented so that we can take advantage of the competences of the seniors and the ability they have to meet the need for labour. There, the government, which was also involved in the interpellant, believes that wages can be one way of motivating police officers to work longer. We're working on this. Additional salary steps may be granted in the context of the annual local negotiations under the Main Tariff Agreement of the State. However, this cannot be agreed in advance, but can be reflected in the local wage policy. The Chief Police Officer may also, in agreement with the Plenipotentiaries, use the ‘Special Basis’ point of the Main Tariff Agreement when it is particularly difficult to maintain a particularly skilled workforce. I also believe that more flexibility should be provided in terms of working time, which is also covered by the interpellant: holidays, questions about how to spend the week and use the day – so that those who want to do so can have the opportunity to work, among other things. part-time. Also the type of work is relevant, which was also covered by the interpellant, and it will be included in the crew bet that will come from our side. In a short time, a pilot project will be launched in a selected police district, on which the interpellant is involved, with the aim of motivating workers to work longer. The reason why this is so limited, I think it is quite certain that we want to get this started as quickly as possible and get tested out the tools we actually want to use. If we do it across the country immediately, it will take longer, both in terms of resource use and in terms of impact measurement. We want to get results here as quickly as possible, to see what actually works, because we really just have the time and the way to get the seniors into business. I would also like to mention that the Police Directorate has developed its own senior policy supervisor, which has been sent to all the police districts and special agencies. I believe that we have many opportunities to stimulate the seniors to work, and it is a great deal of a matter for the police districts to use them. In particular, when funds are available and job homes are available, these possibilities should certainly be used. A major advantage of having an active senior policy is also that the seniors have a competence that is particularly important in terms of crime prevention, but also the reactive police work, which is not only effective; I believe that many police districts often benefit very much from getting closer to the population. It could also be a major concern that people who may have worked for a long time in senior positions, had work inside, at the loss of their careers can actually use some of their experiences by getting out, getting back into contact with the population and running both crime prevention and repair. I am therefore concerned that the competent police staff will continue to work for as long as possible in order to meet the needs of staff with experience, but also because the individual's desire to work longer reflects the police as a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e962	I was quite excited about what the Council of State was going to answer today, and I listened with interest to what he said. If I ask myself whether I heard particularly different tones in what he said now, than in what is in the budget, I must respectfully say that I did not. He came to the senior policy after a violent defence of the submitted budget, which, after having been thought of, the Police Union gave fairly clear and unambiguous feedback on not being a good enough budget for the police in 2008. If you peel away all the earmarked funds, extended use of DNA, external border funds, etc., it is a reality that the operation of the police is significantly harder to run in 2008 than in the current year. So I just want to say that when the government then lifted all its pennies about the extended use of DNA, morals coordinators, more to Økokrim, online police station, the fight against illegal fishing, and increased admission to the Police College, it's a reality that the police budget is pretty much standing back. At the latest, we heard from the police chief in Oslo today that he has an operating budget next year that doesn't go into any jump. Then the consequence is that police positions are going to be available, and that the long call-out time that is strongly responding in many places in the country today is going to be at least as long as next year, because there is no money in the budget to pay for it. In the introduction to the programme chapter in the 2008 budget, the Government writes among others: this: ‘Sustaining social security is a welfare issue and a major public responsibility. Security requires a close and strong police force available if necessary. [[...]] The government is therefore working to ensure a police force with a service structure, a security cooperation and a staff to meet the needs of the public for service and preparedness. In this context, it is essential that the police are available and have adequate response time.’ That description is far from what most people experience from police service out in the Kingdom; it's a reality. Although the Council of State here can spend a lot of time on how large the coals were at the Police College under the previous government, I would actually ask that in that case evidence be provided that the Workers' Party suggested that the coals should be increased. I don't remember that it was suggested to bring up more people at the Police College in that period. So I challenge the council again. It's great to start that experiment in Hordaland, but I also want several of the other districts that are really struggling, to be able to take part in a real bet on seniors, among other things. Finnmark, who really has problems, whether it's in the east or west of the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e980	I'll take that challenge. The purpose of such a pilot project is precisely to enable other districts to use the useful means. So I hope it comes quickly, that we get to it. It's important. So the right-wing representative, Aspaker, is about to make this a budget debate, and that's not it. This is strictly an interpellation. But since she makes this such a central point, I have to respectfully say that we cannot budget the Norwegian police by cancelling bets, as you do. If that's that right now, that means 65 million. kr that the police in Norway get extra because we centralize DNA and enable the police to conduct investigations and clarification, should not count with it when we assess the issue of police action, or that the fact that a record number of police students are actually taken up at the Police College is not part of the police operation, then the Right will operate with its budget technique, and then the others will operate with ours. Maybe that's why you came out so well to drive in the last government, where you actually helped to make the admission to the high school of police so low that you didn't appreciate it and, if necessary, measured police efficiency and bet on the police in anything else. I think everyone in this room would have been happy if the previous government had run a recording to the police high school that was over 400 in 2003. At that time, we had filled the vacancies for which the police districts today believe they have money – i.e. between 80 and 160 new jobs – and it would have been one of the most important things we could do in terms of police action. It is therefore only the representative of Aspaker who peels off when assessing the effectiveness and the issue of the investment in the submitted State budget. That's not what the current government thinks. We believe that investing in the Police College is a particularly important effort because there is one demand out there in the population, and that is the question of response time, of security, of resolving more crime. Then the government believes that we actually need more policemen. We can do something about senior policy, but the primary thing for this is the admission to the high school of police. Then we hear that when it starts to say that it is a good argument that the government Bondevik II in 2003 and 2004 had the low recording – some of the lowest that has been, and that we are struggling with today – yes, you start looking for what the other parties, who were not in government, said. I think, to be absolutely honest, that when you sit in government and make decisions that have consequences for three or four years to come, you get to take that responsibility. I'm ready, on behalf of the government I'm in, to take the responsibility we have. And we've done it, among other things. by the fact that one of the first things we did was to drive up to the max recording. I have also given the signal in Stortinget today that we are looking at the possibilities for a further larger recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e996	When you see how the interpellant asks her question here today, it is at least clear to me that she has the gift of fear. It is true, as the representative of Aspaker describes, that we have challenges in terms of personnel shortages in the Norwegian police force. It is also true that when we took over in 2005, the operating budgets were quite tight. This is also nothing new that has come overnight with the sitting government. It was so that both the opposition and the trade unions pointed this out several times to the Bondevik II government. They then chose not to do anything with the challenges they knew would come. In view of this, it is quite special that the Right Almost from day one in opposition has criticised the Red-Green Government for the lack of the Bondevik government left behind in the case of the police. In order to employ more policemen, more policemen have to be trained. 2003, with the Right in government, was a year when it was about the admission to the Police College. Only 235 students were recorded. This year, this red-green government has increased its number to record 432, i.e. an increase of almost 200 from 2003. As you know, it takes three years from the start until you're a trained policeman. We are now struggling with a manning situation in the police because of the lack of police action by their government. If the number of students had been as high under the Bondevik government as under today's government, we would now have 200 more policemen in the streets. Unfortunately, the effects of the red-green effort on police training are fully effective only from 2009. In the case of operating budgets, the red-green government has increased the budget by about 500 million. kr since we took over, including submitted proposals for next year. Here, too, we are putting much more emphasis on police than what Bondevik II did. Not everything is about personnel or money either. We can also help to strengthen the fight against crime in other ways. We can give the police better tools to solve crime, like we're doing with DNA testing, we can better prevent crime, which we've started with, among other things. by setting up police councils, or developing target parameters for prevention work to be done by the police. It is also vital that the efforts we have made in criminal matters, both to remove the reconciliation queue, which has generated crime, and to strengthen the content of the settlement, so that more people are rehabilitated. The return of the municipality of Norway to a viable economic framework helps them to strengthen the provision of welfare and thus contribute to the prevention of crime. What are we doing specifically in the further work towards the police? The Police Directorate’s working group to look at staffing needs in the future and how to recruit the various service units will be of great importance. You should also consider moving more tasks to the districts to make them more attractive to apply for. A pilot project to be launched in the near future to get workers to work longer becomes particularly important in order to remedy the situation until the increased admission to the Police College is effective. As you can see, we have launched a series of measures to remedy the poor efforts of the previous government. I therefore feel that the interpellant here today falls ill, as she tries to kick in the doors that the red-green government for the longest time has put on a wide gap.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e1015	The theme of the interpellation is undoubtedly important. At the same time, I believe – I hope the President will allow the use of words – that there are more than one government and several majority constellations that have to ask for forgiveness of sins here. It is a fact that the Workers' Party, which was opposed in 2003, had a budgetary settlement for 2004 which was not the whole world's bet either. And we in the Progress Party were in three of the budgetary agreements in the previous period. There was a significant effort on the police, but that we could have done more for the Police College, I have no problem taking on self-criticism. What this debate should be about is: Where are we going? What do we expect? What do we want? As I said, the Justice Committee has just completed its budgetary hearings next year, and I regret having to repeat it: there were not many standing ovations there. We had a visit today by the police chief in Oslo, who expects to run with 100 vacant posts next year to make sure to get his budget to go around. We can talk about educating more policemen, but what does it do if we can't afford to hire them? For me, this is about us politicians having to take on the expectations we share in creating the population. We adopt laws, we say something that we expect those laws to be respected, and we expect the police to set up when we need them. But then we also have to have the respect for this department that we give them the framework conditions that make it possible. It doesn't help train more police unless the districts can afford to hire them. It does not help us to pass more laws and say that they should be followed up, if we do not at the same time give them framework conditions to do just that. Then the Stortinget and the majority of the Stortinge are totally inconsistent, and that's in a way to keep the population out of control. It's disrespectful. But if we leave it behind and focus on what's the challenge, it's of course that we have a lot of cops that's going to end because of age, we have a lot of unsolved tasks that we'd like to see solved, and we lack people. So, of course, it's absolutely correct that we have to increase the recording. But I think it's all about what we want with it. How large should the volume be? Should we take the debate that other countries have done, and set the norm on how many citizens we should have per. A policeman or a politician? We're coming out badly. Iceland is on top, but it has its natural explanation: it's a small people, and you live relatively centrally. The Swedes are better off than us, the Danes are better off than us. We're not on top, but we should have been on top, and we can afford to be on top. It is about political will and power, and it is lacking. Then we can discuss the rhetoric in how many we're training or not, but it won't help if you're not willing to take the bill at the end. So earlier today, the Council of State said it's just to look at what the Police Joint Association said. With respect to reporting, they said two things. There was first a press release that was very commendable. But then reality went up for them, and the next – and I expect the Council of State has also read it – was not quite as commendable as the first. If that means that they were caught by the moment – yes, what am I going to use for kind of term now – greatness for the first, because it sounded very good, and then discovered something else, I don't know. But the fact is that PF sent out two press releases, and the reality described in them was a little different. If not, they did not need to send out two. And the same thing when we had budget hearings with the Police Union: they boast of the investment in DNA, they boast of the recording at the Police College – honor be it – but they also point out that there are some differences between expectations when it comes to continuing with vacant positions, and what we want them to do. Of course, we can continue to have rhetorical debates about it. I have more sense that we are actually taking this on board and taking a debate as well as what we were doing in connection with the police mission, where we discussed what the Norwegian police are going to do. The Council of State has today said that we might have to look at whether more civilians have to enter, while this government has been very concerned that the police are police. The first thing you did was stop the trial project with civil capture, even though it was done within a code drawn up by the Ministry of Justice. It is possible that the current Council of State does not trust the previous Council of State and the legislation that was laid down, but in that case I would be surprised. What we have to do is we have to figure out: how are we going to norm this? How long do we need to educate the number of people we need to think about the number of norms we want? And what will this cost us? Then the question is: are we willing to take the bill, or are we going to keep going around the pike and explain what is real, namely that we lack the appropriations to do the job that the audience expects, and that the audience actually has the right to do, cf. Section 1 of the Police Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e1034	‘What will the Council of State do to stimulate experienced policemen to take up more work?’ is the question asked by the interpellant to the Minister of Justice here today. I think the debate would have been on whether the focus had been more on senior policy measures than the anticipation of a budget debate that we're going to have later. In fact, there is a need for stronger senior policy responses in the context of — yes, perhaps not least — the police action. The situation in that department once again highlights the importance of senior policy in ensuring adequate labour resources. The fact that today we have a shorter part of our life in the workplace than ever is an expression of the wrong way to manage resources and competences. And we might see it especially in these vital social tasks that the police manage. For it is not only the labour of older workers who are missing in the police but also their experience in a school where seagoing service provides safety and professional competence. In the Central Party, we join the Aspakers' commendation of the government's recent recruitment measures, but we also share the impatience, as has been said by both the Aspaker and the Minister of Justice, after putting in place more and more effective senior measures in the police. In this respect, we as elected representatives can act as important premiscutors, but the work also needs to be done to a large extent by the police themselves. Through tripartite cooperation, through the agreement on inclusive working life and through the Centres for Senior Policy, arrangements and devices are in place to assist the labour market in the formulation of a positive senior policy. However, the assumption that more people will be able to do more work is primarily linked to whether working life values the age range in the workplace and emphasises the value of competence and many years of experience and not unilaterally pursues renewal. The police are also concerned that the seniors themselves must experience that their labour force is being valued in order to ensure the quality of the establishment. It is as well-known low-departure in parts of the police force, and the department should see it as one of its main tasks to reverse this trend, not by offering policemen even more labour after a long and profitable working life, but by feeling that they are valued and offered other age-appropriate jobs and favourable conditions rather than leaving the labour market. The police, as they know, have the special age limit, which allows police officers in the patrol to go off at age 57 if they fill the so-called 85-year-old rule – the sum of their own age and the number of years at work. When we dealt with the senior report here in Stortinget, we found that more than 50 pst. in the police force, who were subject to the special age limit, had transferred to another post-pension job from the police. This shows that many workers who have left at the special age limit still want to be in work. The aim must be to facilitate the continued exploitation of this willingness to work and the ability to work in the police — for society’s security. The guidelines for special age limits are regulated by law as well as by the employment contract. In connection with the ongoing review of our entire pension system, the Government has announced that it will also review the legislation on special age limits. I welcome this, not because I believe we should remove special age limits in today's working life, but to get schemes that stimulate the use of experience and acquired skills in a better way than we see in today's reality. The focus on positive senior policy responses needs to be given a stronger place in the work of the police. It has also been clearly stated by police officers themselves in matters that have received wide publicity through the media. We know from other sectors that a conscious senior policy focusing on favourable arrangements for holidays, working hours, economic compensation schemes, the possibility of continuing training, including seniors, milestones, etc. has worked. The police, in cooperation with the state, must work intently to find the formula that works for the police. It is important that the Minister of Justice both expects this and supports this, and it is important that we, as politicians here from the European Parliament, see that we must solve the challenges of police action, we must also look at that part of the matter, not just at the bottom of the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e1058	So it's a reality that in 2007 we have a much better economic base for the arrangements made here in the house than we had in 2005. 130 billion more is to be distributed in this Chamber when the budget is to be adopted. This debate seems to me to show that the red-greens go straight in the trap every time. Instead of being solution-oriented, one ends up focusing on high student admissions to the Police College. It's okay and good, but there's no short-term solution to the acute problems that people most experience out there, whether it's traffic victims who stay for hours, or there's civilians who have to keep armed burglars waiting for police officers to drive 140 kilometers, or many other such episodes, which unfortunately media beyond the country are full of. The representative Thomas Breen was concerned that one kicks in the doors as he said stood on a wide gap. Yes, if it was the government that had a fixed senior policy for the police, why is it necessary to walk the road to attempts in a Western state? I believe it is a great potential in the seniors of the police, and I think it is important that the Stortinget and the Government make their contribution to motivating this profession to stand further in their jobs. But I do not think it is satisfactory that senior policy should be made dependent on the goodwill of local wage negotiations. I miss and expect – and challenge the Council of State to take – some action at the overall level to avoid having many different senior policies, depending on police districts around Norway. Representatives of the government parties have stood up here today and called for less budget debate, but I noticed that the government itself used large parts of its contribution just to discuss the budget that he himself has presented. He talked little about senior measures, and he ended up referring the question to local wage negotiations. It believes that the Right is a far too defensive approach to a profession that society needs more from here and now. Therefore, the Council of State should use this opportunity to signal with all clarity how important it is that, until we have more newly educated policemen, we also do things in a better way to make use of the valuable resource that the many seniors in the police case can provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e1069	I have to say that many times in Stortinget we manage to gather and figure out what we agree on, and what kind of action is good. But with this interpellant's arrangement in relation to the judicial debate, I think, to be absolutely honest, that there will be an unnecessary amount of wretchedness. I record that it is going wrong to launch a pilot project, and you are afraid of different types of senior policy in the country, as was now said, as I understood it. It must be with respect to report positive that one gets to try out some mechanisms quickly, and then we get to put it into practice. The fact that this debate on the part of the Right and the representative of Aspaker is now taking place almost as if nothing concrete has come about in relation to senior policy, without actually presenting any proposals, also seems to me to be unduly distorted. We have pointed out that we are launching that pilot project, I have pointed out that we are now looking at opportunities to stimulate extra through pay, working hours were in place, and that was also mentioned – and with good input from the representative of the Central Party in the debate – several aspects that we should, of course, take with us in relation to this. I have even said that when the Police Directorate is going to report next year, in June, this will be central, but we also want an interim report to the department before Christmas, so that we can decide more quickly and take the overall steps that need to be taken. So I have to ask at least that you listen to what's said, and that maybe we can also collect something around what's actually done. It can grow very well just because you get broad political consensus around things. Then it was mentioned by the Progress Party in relation to the government choosing to reverse the private transport attempt, that we should sort of get away from involving more civilians in police activities. We didn't. What we removed when it came to private prisoner transport was the commercial element. What happened to the replacement was that the districts that were subject to private prisoner transport set up a separate transport project that is largely run by arrestaries, who are not police trained. This is a very good example of how to run cheaper, more efficient, take care of several tasks, release the police, so that they can operate active service. So this field focuses a lot on the government, we'll come up with measures, and I'm asking for goodwill in getting work done also so important proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e1079	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-06.ana.ud492e1120	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word? - The meeting has been cancelled.
