ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e51	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has asked for the floor to put forward a draft representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e54	On behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Robert Eriksson and myself, I am delighted to propose amendments to the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on popular suspicion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e59	The President will draw the attention of Odelstinget to the fact that this proposal has been submitted after the deadline. It's been submitted today at 5 p.m. 12.45, but the president will assume that Odelstinget has no objection to this being set up as a record matter in today's meeting. – No objections have been raised, and it takes the President as a tacit approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e73	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 3 lines with replies following the insertion of the main speakers of the parties and 5 lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e82	In December 2005, a roll of crowns was arranged in Bergen to help 13 Polish workers home for Christmas. They agreed to pay 48 kroner an hour, but they had not paid it in three months. «The situation at my house is tragic» said the Polish construction worker Andrzei Wnuk to the Official Journal of Bergen. The children are sick, the power was taken two months ago, and we don't have money, he could tell. Wnuk and his colleagues have still not received their money, and the matter lies in the legal system. The Labour Inspectorate recently had an action week in which the controlled conditions of foreign workers in Norway were controlled. Wages and salaries of less than 20 kroner were revealed, building workers who had to live in a gap in the forest were registered, and they responded to almost 70 p.m. by the controlled construction sites. In February of this year, Fafo presented a report on living conditions for Poles in Oslo. In 2006, half of the Polish construction workers received a salary qualifying for the term social dumping. 60 pst. of the seconded Polish construction workers worked more than 50 hours. 25 pst. works illegally, and 18 pst. is in a grey zone. A third of Polish construction workers have been asked to pay while working in Norway. These are states we can't live with. Norwegian working life is characterised by orderly conditions, high productivity and a low level of conflict. Through cooperation between the social partners and the authorities, we have obtained a law and social benefits based on the rights of employees, while reducing employers' financial responsibilities by providing society with health benefits, pensions and day-care benefits in the event of unemployment. Social dumping is a threat to this model of working life. It is an accident for non-resident workers who are being cheated, underpaid and dividends on a mission in Norway. And that's a threat to businesses that want to compete on serious terms. Listen to what painter Harald Askaut says to Dagbladet: «No matter how much we tip the pen and press our prices, we are told that our competitors are far lower. We can't compete when we pay normal wages." This says the painter who has 35 employees, but who now has to cancel and permit people. He is unable to compete against companies that pay between 30 and 40 kroner an hour in wages. Geir Atle Mjeldheim in the Maler- und Bautabpetsermesterens Landsbann calls the state of the mafia-like industry. The government presented an action plan on social dumping in the revised national budget last year. Since then, a number of measures have been put in place. In Ot.prp. No 56, as we are now dealing with, the Government is presenting a set of new measures to combat social dumping. Intensification of labour-renting legislation, extended contracting authority responsibilities and the right of access for elected trustees are the main measures. In the hearings and in the debate on the proposals, there are, in particular, proposals for regulatory obligations for contracting entities and transparency for trustees who have been placed in focus. It is said that we impose a large administrative burden on the companies about the duty of care, i.e. the extended builder's responsibility or the extended contracting authority's responsibility. To that I would say that it is true that there is more work on the employer. However, this disadvantage for the contracting entity must be balanced against the negative effects of social dumping on workers, serious employers and society. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 92 for 2005-2006, both the Right and the Christian People's Party were in agreement with the Government parties in the view that the contracting entities must be more accountable in relation to the pay and working conditions of the contracting entities. Unfortunately, that is no longer the case. I look forward to hearing what has changed in your eyes so much since November 2006 that it justifies the twist that has been made. The definition of the term ‘contracting entity’ and other limitations and clarifications must be made through the regulatory work. It is important that the regulation is designed in such a way that commitments cannot be made by changing the name of the assignment. The experience we have gained on the health, environmental and safety aspects of the care sector in the petroleum sector, the builder's regulations on construction sites and the main corporate responsibility in general, indicates that the contracting authority's responsibility functions as intended, and that it is not a disproportionate instrument. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the governmental parties, supports the proposal on the right of access for elected representatives. We note that there is some concern that confidentiality will cut off the ability of trustees to use advisers to evaluate, translate, if necessary, information on pay and working conditions. We therefore propose an amendment to the Government's proposal for the wording of Section 8 of the Public Procurement Act, which makes it apparent that trustees can use advisers, but that these are covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. Transparency of trustees is an important point of the Government's Action Plan and the Soria Moria Declaration. Opposers of the right of access say that this is a privatisation of a public task. I deeply disagree with this. It's been 100 years since we got the first nationwide tariff agreement in Norway. The collective agreements have two important functions. They shall ensure the pay and working conditions of each worker and shall prevent low pay from becoming a competitive advantage. For employees in the lessee or contracting entity, it is important that hired workers have proper pay and working conditions. Otherwise, we can get the situation that it will be profitable to replace workers on a collective agreement with underpaid hired workers. Thus, the right of access by the trustee becomes an important instrument for defending the pay and working conditions of its own members. Once we have published collective agreements by law and regulation, pay and working conditions for employees of the contractor are not a private matter. It is also natural for trustees to be given the right of access by law and regulation to ensure that collective agreements in general are respected. For us as legislators, it is important that we have an orderly working life where both the employee side and the employer side take responsibility for the fact that conditions are as they should be. It has never been such that the supervisory authorities alone have been able to ensure compliance with the law at all levels of work. This job is primarily done by trustees and the protection ombudsman in the companies and in the construction sites and, of course, I have to add, by serious employers. Now, when we give trusted access rights where there is a public tariff agreement, for the construction trade agreement, it means that approx. 1 300 trustees in the Joint Undertaking are given a legal basis to make an effort for their own members and for the employees of the contractor. Let me say a few words about the Joint Alliance in this context. It is the members of this trade union who are most likely to face the problem of social dumping in their industries. Ever since the EEA enlargement, the Joint Union and its local departments have undertaken a great deal of work and used considerable resources to safeguard the interests of Eastern European workers on a mission in Norway. Eastern Europe has been offered membership. They've had their cases run through the legal system. They have been helped to get a job with serious employers, and they have been helped to find solutions on purely welfare issues. The proportion of Eastern Europeans who are members of the Joint Union is increasing strongly. The association is linked to seven interpreters, scattered throughout the country, who assist East European workers and trade unions. For the current year, the Joint Undertaking has put close to 17 million in its budget. to measures to combat social dumping and unprofessionalism in the labour market. This is solidarity in practice and will produce results in the form of a better and healthier working life, of which we all have an interest. So a few words about the other suggestions in the proposition. The Government warns that, in line with the Soria Moria declaration, it will draw up a regulation on approval and control systems for manning undertakings. Although the large manning companies operate seriously, there are a number of examples of unprofessional actors. This is particularly relevant for the rental of workers from the new EEA countries. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that, in addition to purely registration requirements, organisational and economic requirements should also be imposed on activities engaged in hiring out labour. In the context of increased labour migration from the new EEA countries, it has been pointed out that current liberal legislation on labour rent between production enterprises is easy to exploit and circumvent. There is therefore a need for tightening up. The majority support the proposal to lower the threshold for when such rental requires agreement with trustees. All Norwegian work experience shows that trust leaders in companies have a good ability to find good solutions to the needs of companies for flexibility when they are taken on board. Therefore, this amendment will not limit the flexibility provided by the law, but will limit the ability of unprofessional actors to circumvent and exploit the provisions. The Government also proposes an amendment to the Working Environment Act § 4-1, sixth paragraph, which obliges public authorities to provide the issuer of identity cards with all the information necessary for the issue of such cards. The introduction of identity cards in the construction industry is a long-term measure, and I would like to express my satisfaction that we are soon reaching the goal of this measure, which I believe is a very important measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e147	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e150	The Labour Party is opposed to all the competitive outsourcing and use of tenders – not to mention privatisation, but to freezes on their backs. It is only to look at the ads in the last election campaign about ‘the cold hands’ in the private care sector. The Progress Party is positive for competition in most fields, but there are some areas where we do not want privatisation or outsourcing. This is particularly the case in the area of supervisory activities and supervision. It is therefore with amazement that we register that trustees are to assume the supervisory responsibilities of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate. Is it such that the Workers' Party is for privatisation only if it is the Joint Union or the LO that benefits from it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e159	It is a little difficult to follow the reasoning of the Progress Party when one says that trustees should take over the tasks of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate. What is the matter is that we have had a work environment law in this country for many years. We have data protection officers who are selected by the employees of the companies and who are working to comply with the Working Environment Act at their workplaces. Whether there is one employer or more, the Protection Ombudsman has a task to do there. Now we've made collective agreements. This means that pay and working conditions are no longer just a private matter. That's also something for which we have statutory minimum rates. Then it is also natural that trustees are given the opportunity to do a job in the same way as the protection agents in order to ensure that the law is followed. This is not about privatisation. It is about a completely normal and necessary addition to what is being supervised. We know that the supervisory authorities have difficulty in reaching all jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e166	I'll be clear enough to say that I believe that both the representative Henriksen and the government have a proper ambition with the law we are now dealing with, namely to bring the unprofessional part of working life to life and to combat the parts of working life that are acting in an improper way. We all share that ambition. The problem is that the irresponsible and unaccountable parts of the world of work have neither collective agreements nor trustees. Then my questions will be addressed to Mr Henriksen: How in the world can the instruments proposed here, with the right of transparency for trustees, operate in companies where there are no trustees at all, nor tariff agreements? Could this not help to promote the unprofessional part of the world of work instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e173	These are the instruments to be used where the collective bargaining agreements have been published. The trustees of the contracting entity are granted access to the contractor to ensure that the terms and conditions of employment of the contracting entity are in line with the collective bargaining agreement, which is mandatory for all. The obligation to pay and the fact that there must be a reasonable level of pay and working conditions in the enterprise that is being neglected exist here per year. Law. Then it is clear that there will certainly be contractors who do not have a collective agreement. This agent will not work there. That's the way it is. But I'm going to think there's a very small number of businesses this is about. If this is a problem, we will certainly be able to find measures in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e180	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e183	The Progress Party would stress the importance of ensuring a serious and well-functioning working life by ensuring that both Norwegian and foreign companies are serious and complying with applicable rules and laws. In the wake of increased labour migration, good control procedures are needed to ensure a good working environment and normal pay conditions for all those working in Norway. Unfortunately, in some industries, there have been examples of foreign workers working under poor conditions and with pay conditions significantly below what can be described as normal pay in Norway, which is unacceptable. The measures taken to combat social dumping shall ensure that all those working in Norway have the same rights and security. However, the measures taken shall not be of a protectionist nature. The Party considers that it is particularly important that it should not be uncompetitive to comply with the laws and regulations in force at all times. Employment has changed dramatically in recent decades. This explains why cases of social dumping have been able to occur and at the same time shows the need for a review and a change in the labour market framework in order to counteract social dumping. In the fight against social dumping, it is essential that the supervisory authorities have sufficient competence and that sufficient resources are provided to exercise the necessary control. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Justice has raised a number of strong objections to several of the proposals in Ot.prp. No 56 for 2006-2007. In particular, I will raise two main objections from the Department of Justice. The proposition reads as follows: ‘monitoring compliance is normally a public task. [[...]] The Ministry is sceptical as to whether the so-called contracting authority's responsibility will adequately improve the effectiveness of the supervision of collective bargaining decisions.» It also states: ‘We cannot see that the Ministry has explained why contracting entities will be closer to checking and detecting infringements than the Labour Inspectorate will be.’ I share this criticism and the views expressed by the Ministry of Justice, and believe that the Government's legislative proposals on crucial issues are too poorly investigated and too far open up powers legislation with subsequent issuing of regulations. The Progress Party is very concerned that we will have both a legislative and a regulatory body which will in practice be impossible to comply with, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and furthermore impossible to enforce for the authorities. Part of this criticism is then also shared by the Government itself, as the Government writes in Ot.prp. No 56 under point 4.6, page 31, that ‘the measure could favour to some extent larger and established establishments’. A functional and adaptable labour market presupposes flexibility in hiring between production enterprises. A legislation on the rental of workers between production establishments must be designed to enable them to be used for both periods of ups and downs. The tightening measures provided by the Government for hiring workers will work in the opposite direction and will mean less flexibility and less available labour. This will thus create difficulties for the deliveries by the companies in the event of seasonal fluctuations, at stoppages. This may in turn create difficulties for employees, because this type of rental is an alternative to leave and cancellation. Today's legislation works well in my view. It is obvious from the point of view of the Contracting Party that the contracting authority must be able to require contracting entities to make a good and proper assessment prior to the conclusion of contracts and that contracting entities require their contractors to comply with the applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions. However, if contracting entities are to be able to ensure that subcontractors/suppliers pay wages, cover a certain number of home trips, meals and lodgings, and comply with the working time regulations of the General Regulation, etc., this means that the contracting entity must enter the enterprises and carry out controls. The Party is concerned about and cannot recommend the overall legal certainty issues arising in the wake of such a control. The measures taken against social dumping are intended to provide good and equal opportunities for workers working in Norway. It is therefore essential that the legislative changes introduced should make it more appropriate to be law-abiding than to be a criminal. In this context, the Progress Party considers that the Government’s proposal on bag responsibility is inappropriate and may lead to the opposite outcome of what the Government wants. Through correspondence in connection with the handling of this matter by Stortingen, the Minister for Employment and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has not provided satisfactory answers to whether, and in the case of how, the contracting entity will carry out extensive control of subcontractors throughout the contract chain. I also ask questions as to whether the contracting entity should be required to have the necessary competence for such a check in the future. It would be particularly problematic for small enterprises and contracting entities to be required to carry out such controls. Lack of competence and economy are two major problem areas in this respect. Furthermore, the guarantee of pay obligations could lead to high costs and thus threaten the existence of smaller enterprises. Therefore, the Progress Party is against the guarantee of pay obligations. About 80 pst. Norwegian enterprises employ less than five employees. For these, and thus for the vast majority of businesses in Norway, the proposed law on passport liability will lead to major challenges. The party of progress fears that this could lead to a negative choice of companies, where the choice is either to shut down the business or to conflict with the law in force. This also means that the control that the legislative proposal intends to facilitate better actually has the opposite effect, where the result will be more social dumping and not less, more undeclared work and not less. The Progress Party is concerned about such developments and therefore supports the NHO’s proposal to establish a checklist for enterprises, where different pay and working conditions, etc. shall be guaranteed by the contract staff employed. The proposal will, in our view, address several of the issues that the proposed law aims to address, but without the unfortunate consequences of the legislative proposal. The Party of Progress is of the opinion that the proposal on information and documentation obligations to locally elected trustees is, to a mild extent, special. The Progress Party supports the right of the trustees to send concerns messages to public oversight bodies. The government's proposals are not limited to purely concern notifications. Trustees shall now be granted the right to require the submission of documentation. The Progress Party believes that the proposal in this way is a mere delegation — or, to put it another way — a privatisation of the supervisory and supervisory functions of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority. The Party considers that it does not seem reasonable for the elected representatives to have access to pay and working conditions in accordance with the general rules of the contracting entities of the establishment. One of the most important tasks of the Committee of Trustees is to safeguard the interests of members and to negotiate on their behalf. In this case, there will be a central question as to whether trustees should be able to require them to take the information they receive through the role of supervisor when negotiating. The Progress Party believes that such a proposal clearly violates the established role of the trustee apparatus and the normal working party relationship, and that regulatory control is and must be a public task. The party noted that the concept of social dumping appears to have different implications for the different actors in the world of work. The Party therefore considers that clarification and clarification of what is meant by social dumping may be necessary, in order to be sure that it is equal to perception of the meaning and scope of the concept. I'm addressing the proposal I've referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e237	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e242	It is difficult to understand what the Progress Party really thinks about labour immigration. Today, they have produced a large immigration policy document with ten pages on labour immigration. While all of us are discussing social dumping and the problems facing Eastern European and foreign workers in the labour market in Norway by being exploited, cheated, tricked up — and we are trying to get a law against this — the only measure I can see is that the Progress Party is coming here, that one should consider proposals for the review of welfare schemes with a view to preventing abuse and ensuring good integration. It is, as far as I can see, the only means of action proposed by the Progress Party in the field of labour migration. So you have to make things even worse for foreign workers on a mission in Norway. Does the Progress Party not care that people are being cheated, cheated, underpaid and exploited in Norwegian workplaces? Does it seem that the fig leaf of a proposal they are making here today will be sufficient to resolve these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e249	Today we are discussing precisely what the representative is asking for. The Party of Progress has a significant commitment to social dumping. That is why we also come up with more solutions here. We point out that it is not acceptable that social dumping occurs at the level Henriksen also referred to in Bergen. We want a strong effort in this regard. That is why we want the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate to take a stronger approach to this. We also support the NHO's proposal to bring this about. We have put forward proposals on this issue. There is evidence from subcontractors of promises made, of the conditions of pay and of work laid down in the General Regulation. Documentation from subcontractors has been registered and the information has been sent to tax authorities, etc. It is quite obvious that we have a desire to get social dumping to life, and we are showing that through the treatment of this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e254	The issue of social dumping is actually about what kind of society we want in the future. There the Progress Party has a very clear policy which is that they are not particularly enthusiastic about trade movement, or that they must stand together to ensure good pay and working conditions. We know that will change society. Now that we see pieces of Norwegian labour that are suffering from the situation that the Progress Party clearly wants for the entire Norwegian labour market – that is, less rights for trust-elected, less organisation and fewer obligations for employers to ensure good pay and working conditions, which is what has actually made this country good to live and live in for almost everyone, we can wonder what kind of society it is going to be. I want to ask the Progress Party directly, when they do not want to participate in concrete actions now: Is it the case that the Progress Party actually wants the salaries of Norwegian workers to fall as well? That's the consequence of them not being involved in doing anything about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e263	Big words are known to SV. They have flagged them as the poverty party in Norway. Although they vote against the increase in social aid rates in the Grand Duchy, although they vote against the increase in disability in this society, they declare themselves to be the right party of the poor, and so you have to vote for them. It's the exact same thing with social dumping. They have made claims without covering for them. We put forward a proposal in this case, and if the representative Andersen had taken the time to read it, she would see that the proposal contains five points on how we want to do it in some areas. We want the Petroleum Authority and the Labour Inspectorate to be stronger in controlling social dumping. Of course, we want social dumping to come to life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e270	The representative Kenneth Svendsen referred to about 80 p.m. by Norwegian enterprises with fewer than five employees, and in the notes there is concern about the consequences of their liability for the passports: ‘this may lead to a negative decision-making situation for enterprises, where the choice is either to shut down their business or to conflict with the laws in force.’ [[...]] I have registered, in my contact with the craft companies – and these are the ones we are talking about – that they are the strongest supporters of the government's action against social dumping. They stress, in particular, that their problem today is that they barely reach their bids because they are underpinned by unprofessional actors. They simply feel that they are in a situation where they are given the choice of either shutting down businesses or conflicting with the law and becoming part of the enterprises that are engaged in social dumping. Does not the Progress Party see that the dilemma is more so than that it acts as sponsors?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e287	If I had seen that side of it, I would probably have said the opposite of what I said in the pulpit instead. I don't see it that way. I am amazed that the representative Sundsbø takes the approach he is taking, because these are proposals that will cost small businesses considerable money and will probably push them out of the labour market. In fact, it is a concern shared by the Council of State with the Progress Party, as he writes in his own proposal that to some extent the measures could favour larger and established establishments in Norway. This means that when you favor larger businesses, it goes beyond the small ones, and they can get worse. So what I've said is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e294	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e297	Let me first stress that we on the Right think it is gratifying that we are now having a debate on how to bring about the unprofessional part of working life. This is important both in the interests of employees — both Norwegian and non-resident employees — and in the interests of enterprises themselves. I also think it is a good idea to take on board what the matter is all about, namely labour immigration, and to state that it is positive for Norway – and also imperative for the Norwegian community – to ensure adequate access to labour. This may well be the greatest weakness in promoting continued growth and growth in Norway. Thus, in 2004 the EU enlargement has been in many ways a gift package for the Norwegian economy. There is enough to point out yesterday's economic activity, which confirms – according to estimates from the Central Statistical Office – that if it had not been for labour immigration only from Poland, the Norwegian level of interest rates would have been 0.75 percentage points higher and it would have been completely impossible to carry out a number of important tasks, both in the public and private sectors. I think it's okay to be aware of that, so that we can also apply it. This also tells a lot about how important it is that we are able to mobilise far more of those who are currently out of the labour market and who have the opportunity to work. At the same time, labour migration contributes to growth and development in a number of poor countries in Europe. There is a reason so many come to Norway. There is a strong demand for labour. There is strong purchasing power in Norway, and at the same time, the people who come have a perfectly legitimate and understandable desire to work out of poverty and misery in their home country in order to create a better future for themselves and theirs. In this way, we can contribute to cohesion and also to peace building in an integrated Europe, while solving pressing needs in our own society. That's why I think it's very important that we have the power to facilitate a working life in Norway, which makes it still attractive for these people to come here, that they feel welcome, and that they are taken care of and not tricked into bandit contracts, which we've seen some ugly examples of. In fact, it is completely impossible for the real and serious companies, as mentioned earlier here, to compete with bandits and free passengers. We've got a lot of examples of that. The question is: what tools are suitable for achieving the goal of a serious and well-functioning working life? Part of what the Government proposes in this odelstingsproposition, gets Right-wing support, and we're against – I'm going to get closer to it. On the right, we have two basic requirements for new legislation. The laws, regulations and administrative provisions to be introduced must be easy to understand and comply with, including for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is in our view that the present bill does not meet any of these requirements. It is worth noting that the Government itself is giving a frank recognition of the fact that the present legislative proposal will weaken the small and medium-sized enterprises. As referred to in our remarks, on page 31 of the Proposition, ‘the measure could favour to some extent larger and established establishments’. That's a point Kenneth Svendsen has previously also been in on. I think it was an eye-catching, but at the same time a joyful recognition – an eye-catching, open honesty around a difficult point. But then it becomes extra sad that you ignore this and choose to drum the matter through at express speed in Stortinget. This case has so many pages that it would have earned both the Storting and the Government credit if one had submitted to a more thorough procedure in Stortinget. But it was not possible, not least because the matter came as late as it actually did. In the view of the Right, the proposed law we are now dealing with is fundamentally objectionable and represents an important crossroads in view of several points. Firstly, we think it is worrying that private companies should be charged with control or investigation responsibilities. Secondly, trustees will have the right of access, involve a blending of roles and, by far, also a public abdication of their control and oversight responsibilities in relation to the responsibilities and activities of the Labour Inspectorate – including the responsibilities and activities of the Petroleum Authority. Thirdly, this law makes extensive use of the instrument with powers and regulations. All three of these objections seem to weaken the Government's proposals. But it's not just the Right who has had objections to the proposal. The Ministry of Justice, as Mr Svendsen has pointed out, has also raised considerable and serious objections to the present legislative proposal. It is relatively rare to have such clear talk from one department to another in relation to a proposal promoted by the Government. There, the Ministry of Justice clearly and unequivocally states: ‘The enforcement of regulations is normally a public task, and we’ — i.e. the Ministry of Justice — ‘is sceptical as to whether the so-called contracting authority’s responsibility will be an appropriate way of improving the effectiveness of the supervision of the decision of the collective bargaining organisation.’ Quite clear speech! And then you come to the next point with very strong objections from the Ministry of Justice: ‘We cannot see that the Ministry has explained why contracting entities will be closer to checking and detecting infringements than the Labour Inspectorate will be.’ No, this is also completely in line with the objections we have – in addition to more people. During the very short and intense process of dealing with this matter in the Committee — a little over a week, in fact — the Right has sent a total of four letters together with over 30 questions to the Ministry. Some of the questions have been answered, but to a number of the questions we feel that we have received a lack of answers. Not least, a number of the answers have been that it should be brought back to you when the regulations come. It's a weakness of the entire bill. Regulations are not dealt with in Stortinget. They are determined by the Government – after a hearing, correctly – but the Storting is not involved. A number of these questions we believe are of such fundamental importance that they should have been clarified by ordinary legal proceedings and not be left to a regulatory home in retrospect. With regard to the so-called Easter liability of the contracting entity, we have proposed an alternative contained in the cancellation, which is promoted as a separate proposal, namely this checklist, which is not exhaustive but which lists a number of items which should be included in absolute terms in respect of the requirements to be imposed. This is possible to enforce. This is possible for business to live with, and I think it would have been a much better alternative than what you're now adding. The proposal proposed by the Government, to which the majority now subscribes, does not take into account the fact that the reality in the business world is not such that individual projects to be carried out consist of one contracting entity and one contractor to do the job. For each project there may be a significant number of subcontractors and suppliers to the subcontractors again, in many steps downwards. We certainly believe that this will contribute to a red tape and a cost explosion that will not benefit either employees or business, which will only help increase costs but will make everyday life and the struggle to survive in a tough market even more difficult, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e337	When last November we dealt with Ot.prp. No 92 for 2005-2006, the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, wrote in a note, which the case-rapporteur also mentioned, that they met ‘proposals which give the contracting entities a stronger responsibility for the employees of the subcontractors having pay and working conditions in line with the legislation’. They even underlined the need for sanctions. When the Government now comes up with its order, the Right will vote against all legislative proposals except one and come instead with a checklist. The only legislative proposal they will be voting for today is the obligation of public authorities to provide information when issuing ID cards. My questions to the representative Engeset will then be: What has happened? What's the right one waiting for? What kind of measures in addition to this checklist they are proposing is what the Right believes must come to accountable contracting entities more?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e346	At the time that the representative Eva Kristin Hansen refers to, there was no government proposal for the Stortinget. At that time, there was a relatively cross-political desire to inform the Government of proposals that could provide better instruments to combat the unprofessional sector of business. The proposal made by the Government, with this very extensive and demanding watch responsibility, goes much further than we thought. We have made the proposal that is included in the case, which is specific, namely this checklist. We think it may be a sufficient step at first, and I think it will work much better than what the Government has proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e351	I need to follow up the representative Eva Kristin Hansen asked about the liability of the contracting entity. The clear, almost intelligible attitude we got when we dealt with the matter the last time, that the Right believed that the contracting entity should have an obligation, and even perhaps sanctions, has something to do with the fact that whoever sits at the top of a pyramid and reaps what is happening down in the pyramid, perhaps it makes sense that someone has to work under totally unacceptable conditions and with totally unacceptable wages. It's a kind of principle, or at least a kind of fair, view that the kind of sponsors should take a greater responsibility than what they do today. And then my question is, doesn't the Right believe that sponsors who cut themselves at people who get very poor pay and working conditions should have an extended responsibility in relation to what they have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e358	Yes, quite clearly. I think that was quite clear from my post, and that should also be quite clear from the setting. But I can refer to the representative Karin Andersen what we are actually proposing, and what should be the requirements of this checklist. Thus, there are requirements for the employer and for the contracting entity, namely that there is evidence that the subcontractor has made a promise to comply with the pay and working conditions; there must be evidence that the subcontractors are registered and have sent information to the tax authorities; the subcontractors must be registered in the Brønnøysund Registers; there must be a requirement for the submission of a tax certificate and a requirement for the production of a company certificate from the home Member State – to mention what is listed there. In addition, in the state budget for the year we are now in, we have proposed a strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate by 5 million. kr. The red-greens calmed down during the budgetary procedure. I am now pleased to record that in the revised national budget the Government has come back with exactly the same proposal – so welcome after!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e367	I think we should register that the Labour Inspectorate is strengthened by – I believe it is – 16 million. kr of this government, and I do not think the previous government at all strengthened the Labour Inspectorate. My impression is that the Right had a much greater interest in social dumping measures before going into and discussing concrete measures – and to quote from the position: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, considers the challenges of social dumping to be very serious. It is not desirable to develop a sub-class in the Norwegian labour market consisting of foreign workers who receive lower wages and who have worse working conditions than Norwegian colleagues.» Everyone, except the Right Party and the Advance Party, said that. And then the majority came back with concrete action afterwards, where the Left and Christian People's Party signed out. My question is, why couldn't the Right be involved in this type of general comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e377	That question should really be unnecessary, because in the committee we agreed during the procedure that we should be very careful to jump in and out of each other's comments. We have alternative comments like the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left stand together, in other words, but that take up exactly the same reality and the same substance – so we're probably as concerned with this relationship as the red-green representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e382	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e385	Good pay and working conditions in an orderly labour market are a very good competitive advantage for Norway when recruiting labour. That's what's needed. It is necessary for Norway, and it is a good thing that people can be allowed to move on and seek work and new opportunities across borders. SV is very concerned about this and has a positive relationship with it. At the same time, we are aware that what has ensured good living conditions and well-being in Norway is that we have had a well-organised working life where we have had a great deal of overview and have ensured good conditions for everyone. It has meant a lot to individuals and families, but it has also meant very good productivity for the country and ensured that we have used the resources we have. I very much agree with the statement made by the rapporteur, where he says that very much – I would say almost everything – of what the trade union movement has done over time, and what they are doing now in relation to workers from abroad is ‘solidarity in practice’. I feel that the fight against social dumping is ‘solidarity in practice’. At a conference in May, held by the Norwegian Labour Union, Petter Furulund, of the National Association of Service Companies, said: "Norway is an eldorado for cellar rings." But I think it's very serious, and it comes from a representative of a large employers' organisation. Many of us have been invited several times to craft companies that may be in a different part of the labour market than what we talk about most, namely the private craft market. They describe a situation in which they feel overrun and outclassed by people who might be, as Furulund says straight out, cellar rings. It's a big problem, but it's not like we in SV don't recognize that some of the measures we can take against social dumping can have some disadvantages for some of the companies. Yes, they can have it. However, when we do not put social dumping measures in place, and do not take strong enough action, businesses also have problems — very serious problems — even they are completely eliminated. I feel that the measures we have put forward now are a good step forward towards a more serious working life. I feel that the authorisation system for temporary employment agencies is important. I would also like to remind you that in some of the sectors that may not be as well-organised as construction and construction industries, where we now have public tariff agreements, there may be a need for more measures than those we have put in place, for example. regional protection ombudsmen and perhaps other measures as well. There are several before me here who have mentioned the Fafo study on Poles in Oslo, which shows that a quarter of the Poles in Oslo are women. They are very often in a situation where they are almost without rights. Three out of four have laundry jobs, mostly in private homes, and they also often wash black. They are not allowed to apply for a work permit, because it is difficult to obtain all jobs in the cleaning industry. This is an industry that I believe we need to have a much stronger search light in the future. It is at least as unacceptable that women are exploited in the black labour market — or perhaps even within some enterprises — as men are. I also think it's a sign of a slightly bad attitude in society that you think it's okay to hire people to work completely without rights. If you get this as cheap as possible, you ignore the consequences it has for employees to stand without rights and without a real wage. Finally, I would like to say that for SV it is incredibly important, when there are so many profits that we know it is in the process of social dumping, that we are getting instruments that are responsible for those who sit and serve on this. That's why we are very happy that we now have a watch responsibility, and we are very happy that the government is investigating to extend the responsibility for the sponsor, so that they can't reap the unprofit of social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e406	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e409	I want to start this way the representative Andersen started instead, stating that the Progress Party is very concerned that workers should have proper conditions in their working life. They must have decent and good pay and must have proper working conditions at work. And, of course, Norwegian legislation should be followed, as set out in the law. The question is, how do you manage to take those who break the laws, which we all agree on, and are taken hard? I would like to refer to what the Ministry of Justice has said in a letter to the Committee: ‘The enforcement of regulations is normally a public task and we are sceptical as to whether the so-called contracting authority’s responsibility will be an appropriate means of improving the effectiveness of the supervision of the decision of the collective bargaining organisation.’ They go on to say, ‘We cannot see that the Ministry has explained why contracting entities will be closer to checking and detecting infringements’ – because that is what is important – ‘but the Labour Inspectorate will be’. Does the representative support the views of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e428	Getting such a responsibility means that whoever has a job has to make sure that those down the chain are not subject to social dumping – that is, finding that the cheapest price you get on a mission is perhaps due to social dumping. We believe that is a responsibility a contracting entity should have. In addition to this, transparency is now being introduced, which is incredibly important in order to obtain the information you need in order to provide a notification or a statement of concern to the Labour Inspectorate. We think it's important that you have that right of access, so that you don't get too many messages that there's nothing in them, and instead you can concentrate your resources on them. In addition, this government has granted 16 million. kr more to the Labour Inspectorate after it took over. The risk of being controlled and detected is one of the most important means of preventing social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e434	One of the issues on which there is disagreement would be appropriate in this case is the transparency of the trustees. In today's edition of Today's Business, there is a larger suggestion that the Labour Inspectorate, on a totally incorrect basis, contributed to a company in Westfold being suspended in the press, and that the supervision had to pay a significant compensation to this company for this. My question to Andersen's representative is: What does Karin Andersen think will happen when thousands of trustees, who can be seen as deputy supervisors, run around looking for violations of laws and regulations? Does the representative of Andersen believe that there is a greater or lesser risk of innocent businesses being hanged out in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e443	In fact, I am quite certain that there will be fewer, precisely because today such concerns can be submitted on a suspicion or assumption. In addition to this, the majority have said that when trustees are to exercise their right of access, they must also be able to have with advisers who can do something, perhaps experts in the type of contract work to be entered into here and who can participate in and advise them to become the serious and serious breaches that are reported. This is of great interest to both employees and employers. I have no point of view that the trade union movement is interested in using this instrument in such a way that there are more such things as it is referred to in today's business today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e448	We are probably in constant agreement that we must fight social dumping. It's a little bit of how to turn the plug, and what happens. I also heard that the representative mentioned this with black work in his post. I'll ask you something about it. There can be a lot of extra work for small businesses and others, and many can do much of this with reporting and what is going on. Then it can quickly be that the good intentions work the opposite, that this can actually lead to more undeclared labour in society rather than less. Does the representative, Andersen, see that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e457	I see that there is a need for stronger measures than today, both in terms of social dumping and the fight against undeclared work. There is no doubt about it, because there have to be many more measures than those we have today. But I think I'll remind you that if we don't put in more measures against social dumping, it's the serious and small businesses that are being competed out. So here I think we have to weigh the disadvantages against each other. In the eyes of the SV and the Government, the disadvantages we are now causing to the enterprises – because there are some disadvantages in this – are much less than the unprofessional development of the labour market, making it impossible to run an honest business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e464	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e467	It is positive that foreign workers come to Norway to work. They make it possible to maintain a high level of production at the same time as wage developments are moderate and price developments are limited. In addition, recent estimates from the Statistical Central Bureau show that if we had not had labour immigration in recent years, the interest rate on governance today would be 5 pst. and not 4,25 pst., as is the case today. There is no doubt that as a nation, we profit and depend on foreign workers. The majority of foreign workers coming to Norway are motivated by the possibility of better living conditions for themselves and their families. This is a most understandable and legitimate purpose. It seems attractive to come here — to a country where workers’ rights are strong, where the level of pay is relatively high and the principle of equality is strong. However, it is a serious challenge for some foreign workers to be offered pay and working conditions which differ significantly from those offered to Norwegian workers. There is a cross-political agreement that migrant labour is to be offered Norwegian pay and working conditions. For us in the Christian People's Party, this is an objective pursued by the will to launch offensive measures to combat social dumping. We do not accept that foreigners are treated as inferior in the Norwegian labour market. The fight against social dumping is important both for individual work and to promote a level playing field between businesses. We therefore believe that the authorities and businesses should cooperate in order to ensure orderly business conditions. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that it is an important measure against social dumping to make the contracting entities more accountable than today. On the other hand, we are strongly critical of the fact that the Stortinget is invited to join the principle of extending the contracting authority’s liability, without at the same time giving a concrete description of what the responsibility is and who is to be covered by it. In the proposition, the Government writes that: «in this context, it is only a question of introducing a regulatory helmet, so that it would be natural, in the context of the regulatory work, to consider what is to be laid down in the obligation of placarding and, where appropriate, to specify it in more detail». This doesn't last! When proposals are made for the Storting which involve the imposition of increased administrative burdens on businesses and which also involve some private law enforcement, I and the Christian People's Party believe that a specific description of the personality covered by the obligation and also a specific description of how to comply with the obligation should be required. The Christian People's Party has proposed granting elected representatives the right of access to the pay and employment of foreign workers in areas subject to public service decisions. We believed and believe that such a right of access is necessary to prevent foreigners from working under unacceptable conditions in Norway. Today, however, when we do not vote in favour of the Government's proposal for a regulatory body, it is because, at this point, too, proposals have been put forward which are very vague. We also believe that it is both perceptive and highly critical that the Government only wants to give the right of transparency to trustees associated with a larger trade union organisation. I am disappointed that the proposition contains several very little reworked proposals. We in the Christian People's Party believe it would be irresponsible to vote in favour of the proposal on watch responsibility and the right of access for trustees before the Government has described how this should be practiced and followed up. The proposition does not provide sufficient grounds for assessing the relationship with data protection law and the relationship with EEA law, all the time when the level of precision is so low, nor does it provide us with a basis for assessing the extent to which the responsibilities that are now to be placed on the enterprises become too extensive. This is the reason why the Christian People's Party proposes that the Government should continue to work with the right of transparency for the elected and the responsibility of the sponsors. We support the intentions, but today we cannot vote in favour of proposals that we do not know the scope or consequences of. I also refer to the adjustment and take up the suggestions that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e498	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e503	I would like to address what the representative Woie Duesund himself pointed out, namely that the Christian People's Party as late as last November asked the Government to submit proposals on the right of access for elected representatives as soon as possible. So now the Christian People's Party will postpone it. I'll stay a little bit at reason number two for that. The Christian People's Party says that the Government will only grant access to the trustees representing the organisation that is party to the public tariff agreement in question and that this is a significant restriction of the right of access. I have some problems understanding what this criticism is really about. So my question to the representative Woie Duesund is this: on the basis of how the working life works in the relationship between employers and employees and collective agreements, which other trustees would it be about than those who are actually party to the collective bargaining agreement? Is the whole criticism based on a slight misunderstanding of the rules of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e512	What we at least agree on is that we want to use a lot of means to combat social dumping. We believe that transparency is one of them. When we are critical that only representatives of the organisation that is a party to the relevant public tariff agreement should be involved, it is because it limits the number that can be involved and strengthen the supervision that we avoid social dumping. We know that there are several companies that only have their own trade union clubs that are not affiliated to a main organisation. And then it might be tempting to ask the opposite: Shouldn't they be allowed to work on that question for their colleagues? I think it is important that all those elected to trust, where they are elected to trust, are allowed to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e517	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party gives its fundamental support to the thinking contained in the Government's proposal, but they want more time, more investigation – they will wait to take action. This is in stark contrast to what they write in the position recently issued by the Municipal Committee in connection with Document No. 8:32. Christian People's Party writes: ‘The Christian People’s Party will stress that social dumping is one of the main challenges of working life. [[...]] This requires the authorities to rapidly develop a comprehensive strategy to meet the challenges.’» Then reference is made to the setting that is being treated here today in connection with Ot.prp. No 56. Finally, Christian People's Party writes: ‘This member is very surprised and critical of the Government’s passive attitude towards such an important theme.’ It then contrasts with the waiting and seeing attitude of the Christian People's Party when you come to reality – doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e532	No, I don't think so. I just think it shows that the Christian People's Party has been involved in social dumping for a long time, and that we have come up with concrete principles on how to implement the measures. We were among those who were very happy that there was an action plan, and we fully supported it. Then we support the intention of all the proposals today, except for what is going on between companies, because we do not think it will lead to enough flexibility in the labour market. It's asking more questions than it answers. We want it to be the quality of the work being presented, and we feel that it is not good enough. In fact, we invite the government to come back and work through the proposal much better. This isn't about law. It's about giving blank permission to just have a prescription. We think this matter is too serious – it deserves better work than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e540	I am somewhat surprised to hear Mr. Woie Duesund's explanation of the remark that trustees other than those who are party to the agreement that has been published should have transparency. It is absolutely right that there are many different organisations in the labour market, which have many different collective agreements. What we're saying is that it's the trustees of the organisation that's a party to the public tariff agreement, that's supposed to have access rights. This does not preclude the admission and examination of wage and working conditions by trustees of other trade unions which have their collective agreements in general. However, it would be totally contrary to the rules of the labour market if other trade union trustees who are not aware of the general agreement on tariffs were to enter and interpret working conditions in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e547	I think I have already answered the question that the representative Henriksen is now coming up with. For me, it is important that one does not exclude anyone from being involved in such important work as to have transparency in relationships to help colleagues from other countries. It's just in the companies that may have weak organization, that have unprofessional relationships, we have to go inside and clean up so that there can be good relationships for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e552	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e555	Through the proposals the Government promotes in Ot.prp. 56, we follow the political promises made in the Soria Moria Declaration. There we say that we are positive about the new labour force immigration that has come with new EEA countries, but we stress that competition for jobs should not be exploited to create greater differences and contribute to social dumping. The government has introduced transitional arrangements for labour immigration from the new EU Member States, on the grounds that we need time to put in place our own instruments to create clean national conditions. Today’s consideration of the Government’s proposals for tightening up the rental and leasing laws and amendments to the Public Procurement Act is in addition to the measures previously adopted. Combating social dumping results. The Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened and has also been given the possibility of direct sanctions against activities that do not follow the rules of the construction industry. I see that representatives of the Labour Inspectorate say that the agreement on the publication of collective bargaining agreements in this sector has an effect, but it is also emphasised that there are still serious breaches, and that the sanctions available to you do not go far enough. From the position of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs one will see that there is a general consensus on the objectives. The disagreement arises when we are looking for instruments. I think, with respect to reporting, that part of the comments on which the Progress Party, the Right and the Left stand together are marked by many counter-representations and have proposals for alternatives. That's to think, wish it – yes, but not enough to want it! The Government proposes to assign greater responsibilities to contracting entities than at present through responsibility for ensuring that the parties to a chain of contracts comply with the requirements of the public policy. On the other hand, solidarity liability is not introduced in such a way that the contracting entity becomes directly responsible for the payment of wages and salaries. The party supports the Government's approach. So the government says that, in the context of regulatory work, it would be natural to look at the concrete nature of the measures, and that one does not see it appropriate to legislate in detail and precise rules. I think that's the right approach. When we know that it is among the subcontractors that we most often experience irregularities, and that it is very difficult today to pursue them with control and instruments – the company has often left the country when action is to be taken – it is sad to see how the Progress Party, the Right and the Left avoid the effective measures. To quote from their comments: ‘These members are concerned about the overall issues of legal certainty arising in the wake of such control and cannot recommend it.’ – Disturbed, especially in relation to general comments on the need for action. The same applies with regard to the proposal to grant trusted access rights in order to provide evidence demonstrating the follow-up to generalised pay and working conditions of the enterprises. I have registered the various opinions that are about this between the employees' and employers' organisations. But I have also registered that agreements for such access are already in the contract work of the construction industry. I have registered that both the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate in their hearing opinion show that there is a need for transparency as a complement to their own control, and that it can be a means of making this more effective. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate assumes that it will act as a preventative measure when the contracting entity knows that local trustees have access rights. Let me end with a worry. I believe that, through the measures now in place, we are taking effective and good action towards the large enterprises and the well-organised working life. We will continue to face challenges to the weakly organised part of the world of work, both on the employers' and the workers' side, and to companies with short assignments in this country, which will therefore be difficult to follow up. Especially in the service industries, such as cleaning, hotels and restaurants, it is difficult to see that, through what we now have in place, we have systems that give us particular certainty that unprofessional businesses and social dumping are being followed up. I therefore ask the Government to pay particular attention to this part of the working life when assessing the situation further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e582	'Oh, it would,' said the representative Sundsbø. I have been in contact with many companies during the time I have been here, and also in the past. Especially in this case, many people have made contact. The biggest companies may not have the big problems of taking the extra costs that this brings, but for small businesses it can become heavier. In addition, we know that many small businesses are located in the districts. Sundsbø clarified ‘so would’, and I ask the representative: is it also a wild policy that this means that there will be an increased extra cost and a greater degree of centralisation because of it? I guess that's not the point of what we're adopting today, is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e589	I am quite sure that serious small companies that have their documentation in order will be able to provide the necessary documentation for reporting under the duty-duty system. Then I am quite sure that very many craft companies, the small businesses – 80 pst. have fewer than five employees, as mentioned earlier today – who today often lose their bids because they are underpinned by unprofessional actors, will be happy to contribute to significantly more tidy conditions in the labour market. I have also registered, when I have been in contact with craft companies, as I said before today, that many of them are the Government’s largest ‘applaudants’ in terms of the willingness to take effective measures against social dumping, precisely because they see that today they do not even come into consideration as subcontractors because they cannot meet the requirements of low costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e598	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e601	Social dumping is serious. The left has supported most of the measures that have come from the Government. Of course, we need a well-functioning working life to ensure that foreign workers are not exploited. It is totally unacceptable that foreign workers have pay and working conditions that are far below what is normal in Norway. However, in this case, we believe that the government’s actions are too untargeted and have major and unmanageable consequences, especially for small businesses. The serious thing here is that, in our opinion, the proposals on the right of access and access will lead to the Labour Inspectorate being almost displaced for the benefit of private investigators. The largest companies are likely to be doing just that. They have the possibility to create large administrative departments that can specialise in the overwhelming Norwegian form field. But in the case of small enterprises, the Left is afraid that this will lead to them not taking in more foreign labour because it is impossible to comply with all the rules related to this. We are also afraid that the Government's proposal will lead to the very opposite of what one could assume was the intention, namely more undeclared work. This is because some will be allowed to be excluded by legislation because the rules have become so extensive and laborious that compliance with them becomes impossible. In our opinion, this is very worrying. 80 pst. by Norwegian enterprises have fewer than five employees. It goes without saying that these rules are therefore of great importance to many people. Earlier this year, we were able to read about the head of the Oslo Lumber Association, an active trade unionist who had tried to act in accordance with the legislation. But he couldn't! If we are to get rid of undeclared work and hopeless relationships for foreign workers, we must have a code that is transparent and in line with people's perception of justice. If it gets too extensive, a lot is going to give the bluff. It is necessary to facilitate the start-up of new businesses in Norway. If we are to survive in Norway after the oil has been used up, we must invest in several modern high-tech and environmentally friendly businesses. In this case, the same requirements cannot be imposed for newly established enterprises as for large groups. That is why the Left, together with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, has put forward proposals to create their own, simplified legislation for small and start-ups. We hope that the Government will give greater support to this business policy. In particular, it is important to get more women to free themselves from employers and start on their own. If we are to achieve this, we need to have almost as good social rights for entrepreneurs and self-employed as for ‘common’ workers. Many complain that they do not have the opportunity to develop Norwegian business, because we cannot compete with other countries for cheap labour. It's both right and wrong. One of Norway’s competitive advantages is the ‘reasonable’ labour force with a high level of education. This is why we need to facilitate the creation of new enterprises, based on competence-based high-technology – typically in environmental technologies. There must be a commitment to research. Finally, I would just like to refer to the motion in the vote, from the Group of the Progressive Democrats, the Right and the Left, a five-point proposal to combat social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e625	I would like to go back to the question that Eva Kristin Hansen asked Martin Engeset earlier, because the Right and the Left are together about a lot of the comments here. The Right and Left said in November, when Stortinget gave the contracting entities an information obligation, that they would have even more measures and an even stronger responsibility for the contracting entities. And not enough, they would also have penalties on the purchase. Now they say no to everything, and draw up a checklist in advance, where subcontractors will make a promise to comply with the pay and working conditions requirements of the regulations. But what if that promise is broken? Where, then, is the contracting authority responsible? What penalties can be imposed, when you can turn away from everything by saying look here, they promised, and I even have it in writing? Is it this checklist that's all that's left of Left's strong ambitions in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e637	It could have been tempting to refer to what is in the government's question, and in the answer that points out the sanctions in the government's arrangement. But here I would like to show that this is extensive documentation from the subcontractors. There are documentation requirements in our five-point checklist that the representative points to, and in addition, there are clear requirements here that we believe are more than sufficient, and that will not cause the disadvantages that have been pointed out earlier in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e642	At first it could be interesting to ask the Left if they can't see that there is a difference between information and authority control, because it seems that you don't understand it, cf. many consumer questions agreed by the SV and the Left. But I'll leave it lying down and go back to this with the bag responsibility. The point here is that this watch responsibility should also be used by the Labour Inspectorate when they are going to check whether an enterprise actually complies with the generalised collective bargaining agreement. You have to increase the motivation for being an honest company and not look at people getting poor pay and working conditions. Does the representative of Skkelstad not see that by ensuring this, serious Norwegian companies that follow the rules of the game are also guaranteed to be removed from this market, and those who do not do so are exposed? Isn't that important for the Left, too?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e651	Of course, it's important that we take those who don't comply. But what surprises me a little about the representative Andersen, is that in many ways she will privatize the responsibility that is initially with the Labour Inspectorate. I think that's a little strange. It's clear that we're going to focus very strongly on this being observed, regardless of the fact that we obviously disagree with what's coming, but we think that our checklist will be sufficient, and will be better than what has been proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e658	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e661	We have an important debate on an important topic, and I am pleased to record what I experience as a fact that everyone in the Chamber agrees that the fight for serious working life is an important battle. Then you can ask, why? Well, that's easy to see. It is of course important for employees that there are decent pay and working conditions in the Norwegian labour market. But it is also important to stress that this is essential for the serious employers, that the fight against social dumping, the fight against serious work, is also the fight against serious enterprises. The government is therefore pleased that we feel that we have the support of an overall odelsting and a comprehensive Norwegian serious work life to keep a continuous focus on action against social dumping for serious work. We work in this way that we continuously analyse the situation and continually try to make proposals, to contribute to this overall and important area. We're constantly focusing on how the law of public service works, because it might be the most important contribution of all. Other types of examples of proposals that have been adopted recently are the ability of the Labour Inspectorate to request a halt, which I think can be a very important tool. And I have great faith that when we finally put ID cards in place in the construction industry, it could be an important contribution. But despite the fact that we have done a lot, we believe that there is a need to do even more. We're worried. We believe that there is a serious blow out there now, where it is important that we on the part of the authorities are engaged in contributing even more strongly than what we have done so far. As I said, the serious businesses need a serious work life to survive. Our reasoning is that they therefore have every interest in contributing to it. It is therefore not unreasonable for them to be required to contribute, by ensuring that the Public Service Act is followed. The serious actors will also benefit from it. On the same basis, it is by no means unreasonable for opt-outs to be given extended opportunities in the fight for serious work. It is important to stress that even though we have done things – with the Public Service Act, the Labour Inspectorate has been given access to requesting a stoppage, we get ID cards and other things, and now we get legal support for a watch responsibility and transparency – we will still not be in the situation that we can borrow back and say that now all the challenges are solved. These are new, important contributions in the right direction, but there will still be a need to focus on even more measures to help with these key issues. I need to stress that what Odelstinget seems to give to the Government now is a law that empowers us to make regulations on the liability of the contracting entities and the right of access to the trustees. So we're going to make rules. It'll be an important work. I would like and need to say that, as far as the Committee's work on voting is concerned, not least the Right Party and the Advance Party, in advance of the vote, have asked a number of questions to the Ministry - kept us in good work, to say the same. Their letters raise many important issues. The representative Engeset has today pointed out important issues that we must take seriously in the regulatory work we are now dealing with. But I'm sure we'll get good answers in the prescription. The objections that have been raised are not big enough to prevent us from wanting to have the legal base we seem to have today. Finally, I would like to stress that the regulation is going to have a thorough, real hearing, so that the objections that may be, and the recordings that have been made, are to be seriously assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e680	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e683	We are, as the Council of State said in its speech, all interested in getting social dumping to life. We have different ways to approach the problems, and in what has been presented, there are some fundamental concerns, I think. But I want to return to a question that I have asked earlier today, without having received any proper answer to it. These are the objections raised by the Ministry of Justice. They say, among other things:\t\t You ‘The enforcement of regulations is normally a public task and we are sceptical as to whether the so-called contracting authority’s responsibility will be an appropriate means of improving the effectiveness of the supervision of the decision of the collective bargaining body.’ Furthermore, we cannot see that the department has explained why contracting entities will be more closely involved in the control and detection of infringements than the Labour Inspectorate will be.’ I'm wondering the same thing as the Ministry of Justice. Can the Council of State elaborate on this and whether there are other tasks of the Labour Inspectorate that are intended to be transferred to the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e699	It is true that the representative Svendsen has received an answer to that question many times today, but he does not like the answer. That is why he continues to ask the question. The main point is that the Government clearly defines it as non-privatisation of a supervisory task. The work supervision shall continue to carry out their duties, but it is a contribution to facilitating their work. Therefore, the Labour Inspectorate is very pleased that this is coming. They are very concerned about the serious work life and being able to exercise effective supervision, saying that this will be an important contribution to making the job even better. We are concerned that the Labour Inspectorate should be able to do so. That is why we are also in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e706	I am pleased that the Council of State acknowledges the value of the questions we have asked the Council of State in writing in the process. We appreciate that, because we have actually put a lot of work into this matter – not to be mistaken, but because we have actually thought that it is important to get up with some of the counter-conceptions. It's also in many ways part of the democratic process. I'm glad the Council of State has that approach and doesn't get twisted and laughed, as others tend to be. I think, as I said in my post, that we have received answers to some questions. But there are actually some questions that are unanswered and that are important. I just want to ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to the fact that business is very different, from the tiny small and medium-sized enterprises to the very big ones. Just as I hope that I am adequately cared for in the regulatory work that the Council of State is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e713	It's an important moment. There are several who have shown that it is stated in the proposition that the measure could favour to some extent larger and established establishments. That it is particularly eye-catching, I have a little difficulty hanging on. Of course, it is a challenge for any imposition on enterprises in Norway that the smallest enterprises will have greater challenges to follow up the burdens than the larger enterprises. It's a continuous situation. But the question is whether the disadvantages are outweighed by the benefits. It's in many ways the smallest businesses that will make the most of our getting a more serious work life. In this way, it will be exactly the same as a checklist proposed by the Right. A checklist will also be a greater burden on the smaller enterprises than it would be on the larger enterprises. It's a problem we're constantly facing, which, of course – as far as possible – we have to take into account when we make the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e718	The Christian People's Party supports the fight against social dumping. But for us, it is important that the measures are targeted at those parts of the economy where the problems are greatest. We know that the challenges of social dumping are high in enterprises and in contracting entities that have few or no workers who are professionally organized. However, in the case of such enterprises, employees may be organised in a local association and have confidence elected. I record that only trustees represent the organisation that is a party to the public tariff agreement that, in the Government’s opinion, is entitled to be transparent, even if all the companies are subject to the public service regulation. Why will the Council of State refuse local trustees who are not associated with any main organisation, the possibility of transparency in pay and employment of foreign workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e724	I must admit that I am quite surprised that that question is raised. What are we talking about here? Well, there is an agreement that is most likely to be concluded between, for example: Joint and employers' side. The contract is concluded between a trade union and an employer who has been made public. Then the proposal of the Christian People's Party is clearly that when the agreement is in force in the workplace, people who are organised in other associations can walk around and have insight into and thus understand how a collective collective agreement and an employer are to be handled in practice in an out-of-work environment. Yes, there would be life and touch in the Norwegian labour market if the principle were to be the basis for organisations in other federations to enter into and understand how other people's collective agreements should be perceived. I think the Christian People's Party will think a little bit more through that position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e729	Governments are real in what he points out, among other things. that there is agreement on social dumping, but the instruments are different. We have asked a number of questions – among other things. quite a number from the Right and Advance Party – which have been answered quite well in part. But I want to move into what I've been dealing with earlier in the debate, among other things. the case of small enterprises and the fact that there are probably now several forms in an already heavily pressed form fields. I would also like to say that there will certainly be a good deal of legal complications that many people have to take into account. Have the Council of State thought a little bit about what will be the end of many of the small businesses coming up with this? I would ask him to reason a little in relation to it, without necessarily entailing the big thing now. But I want to take it up with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e736	First of all, I think the problem is being exaggerated, because in practice, very few of the small companies are contracting entities with a set of subcontractors below them. It is not normal in the construction industry, which is now publicised in Norway. So I also think there's something about that sometimes it might be wise to get out of this hall and into the practical life. There are long and good traditions to deal with both HMS work and other issues in such a way that good, practical solutions are found on how to handle law and regulation wisely. So I feel convinced that when we're done with this regulatory work, this will be adapted to a diverse Norwegian business life, and it could work as well in this area as for example. the principal protection officer and other arrangements operate in construction sites today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e743	Now we're discussing social dumping, but this with competition for pay and better working conditions is really healthy. If a company gets a job where they can take out a pile of profit, it will, for example, perhaps pay higher wages to employees or better working conditions, in addition to what is decided by the law. However, in the context of the treatment of social dumping, I have noticed that different actors in the labour market are of different importance in ‘social dumping’. I think there is a need to clarify what is in ‘social dumping’ so that we all have a common understanding of it. Will the Council of State take the initiative to do a job to clarify exactly that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e748	I believe that we have tried to do that by defining in the action plan against social dumping how we perceive that concept. It says that social dumping is when foreign workers: «exposed to infringements of health, environmental and safety rules, including rules on working time and requirements for standard living, and/or when offered wages and other benefits which are unacceptablely low compared to what Norwegian workers normally serve or which are not in line with public service regulations, where applicable». There is a definition with which the Government has gone to the Stortinget, in the action plan against social dumping, which we presented in the context of the revised national budget last year. I can't say that I think the main challenge in the Norwegian labour market now is to touch that definition. The main challenge is to prevent the social dumping that is taking place, cf. this definition is better addressed. That is what we are aiming for today, and that is what the representative of Kenneth Svendsen will not be involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e758	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e761	The government and the majority of the population continue to provide important services for ordinary workers. We said that before the elections, and it was repeated in the Soria Moria statement. Today it is about the fight against social dumping, which is an important issue for foreign workers coming to Norway — for which Norway needs — but nevertheless an important issue also for Norwegian workers. The last poll showed that 65 pst. by the LO-organized would vote red-green. They probably see who is now putting full pressure on orderly relationships in the workplace, and who is not. Norway's going down. The situation in the labour market is positive, but we still see some features that are suitable for concern: we lack labour – 88 000 in minus. Companies say they're doing their job. Kristin Halvorsen says straight away that the Poles are saving the government's promises of kindergartens, roads and railways. One of three NHO companies has unoccupied jobs. The chief economist there says the aliens are saving us. NAV EURES jobs under high pressure to provide sufficient foreign labour. There can therefore be no doubt that non-resident workers are more than welcome, but there are some conditions and rules of play that are not respected by all employers and employers. In media lookups after media lookups, we can read about Eastern Europeans at the top of the accident statistics, about hidden accidents, construction on top floors without railings, incorrectly installed scaffolds, lice pay, lack of work permits and miserable housing conditions. We read about asbestos removal without protection and about Poles that climb the highest and go deep into the ditches without protection. It operates with wages we don't believe are true, and unfortunately not just in the hands of private builders. In March last year, VG wrote about Poles who built the opera for 62 kroner an hour – 20 Polish workers two and four together in the room on the hospits, with two showers on the split, with fake papers, no vacation and no sick pay. They were lucky enough, because others have been referred to a mattress in the construction site. We can't wait to see that the movement of workers has fought through 100 years, undermined by unprofessional exorcists. Nor can we take care that serious companies succumb to ruthless competition. We're talking not only about minor offenses, but often about serious crime, which is also often associated with other lukewarm activities. The right, left and right parties have argued in their comments against the measures discussed here today, for the sake of the 80 pst. by enterprises with fewer than five employees. Of the enterprises, it is probably precisely those that benefit most from tripartite cooperation, the well-regulated labour market that characterises and is, in fact, the very basis for the entire Norwegian welfare community. Employers and employees have common interests here. I understand so much that the Progress Party is jumping off. As you know, the party wants no restrictions on the right of individual citizens to enter into employment contracts directly with the employer. They want to undermine a regulated labour market. I have major problems in following the Right and the Left in this case, when they vote against any measure that obliges the employer and the contracting entity, whether it is extended contracting authority or the right of access to the trustee. This is about several things. It's about politics, and it's about morality: we don't want a new subclass of foreign workers. So far, a lot has been about traditional human-dominated industries. But we're not done with this, and we're going to have to focus on women's dominated industries, such as cleaning and travel, for example. It is also about combating serious crime – this will be a focus of the Police Directorate for the next three years. It's about preventing death and damage. And it's not least about international commitments. The EEA rules and the Broadcasting Directive are one thing, ILO Convention No. 94 a second. We in the Council of Europe delegation were as late as January this year to take decisions where all Member States, i.e. all European countries except Belarus, ask to ensure the equality of pay, working conditions and social rights of foreign workers, regulate temporary employment agencies, increase resources for supervision, use sanctions, cooperate across departments, cooperate with trade union movements, participate in international cooperation between supervision, police and border guards, ask for the professional movement to take care of their foreign comrades, provide information and enable foreign workers to assert their own rights — that is, very many of the measures promoted by the Government in the past, and promote the Great Government here today. Martin Engeset said that it is a pleasure to debate, but I would like to stress that the debate is absolutely not enough. Passivity is the last thing we need in this area. That is what I think characterizes the bourgeois parties here today. The alternative to action may be that Norway will be a haven for unprofessional and criminal actors, and none of us are worthy of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e782	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e785	There is little political disagreement that there should be an orderly situation in Norwegian working life. And that's it. But when you hear a lot of speakers from the position, it just seems like you're using the term social dumping, it justifies any imposition of increased bureaucracy in the practical exercise of Norwegian business. It's almost troubling to hear, for example. The representative Karin Andersen says that with this law we are on our way to a serious working life. Then I think we're at risk of turning the baby off with the bath water, i.e. the positive attitude you now have in Norwegian business and Norwegian business organisations to get into acceptable working conditions everywhere, gets a basic shot by adopting powers laws that you don't know what will mean for Norwegian companies. I think it is an unnecessary suspicion of Norwegian business, and I believe that some of the instruments that will now be adopted will be seen as an estimate of the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that exist around the country. It also seems, then, when you read the proposition, as if that idea might have crossed the Government’s mind when you say that ‘the measure could to some extent favor larger and established businesses’. At best, it's an understatement. The case rapporteur gave us a report on the LO's roll to Poles with poor working conditions in Bergen. The representative of Christoffersen has lectured newspaper headlines. Yes, there are a lot of bad examples. But then I think it's a good idea to do what the council says -- get out of this hall and out in the practical life. It's a little late for me to do it, but I've spent the first part of my life – a 30-40 years – just doing it. And what about this example, which I think is found in thousands of Norwegian small businesses – many with only five to ten employees – where every day is an eternal struggle to get scarce resources and scarce time to go to? Many of these are in the construction sector. They are engaged in deliveries from subcontractors and contractors, with which an in-depth check is now being started. A lot is handled without long contract reviews, but on the kick there and then. And this bag responsibility, as it is now designed, and as we may not know how it will be designed, will mean a lot of work. The big ones create a new department, the little ones take a little bit from the leisure time with the family. The question is whether these instruments will create the conditions we want. I think that the only thing that will create is thousands of day-to-day lawbreakers who get the choice, which the minority points to in a note, either to shut down the business or to run into conflict with the law or the regulations that are announced. Most of the country's small enterprises in construction will probably choose to operate in conflict with the law. For the country's value creation and well-being, I'm almost tempted to say fortunately, but that's not what we wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e801	Like the previous speaker, I also have a history of practical work. I have been a regional protection representative in the construction sector for five years and have been in close contact with small businesses every day for five years. My experience is that they do what they need to do to get serious relationships around them, because they know so deeply that the negative competition like that. social dumping constitutes, first and foremost, their impact. Today's debate is about labour immigration and the conditions and protection that we offer to non-residents in jobs in Norway. We should not forget that we have obligations, for example. after the Posting of Workers Directive to ensure that workers on a mission in Norway receive the remuneration and working conditions they will have. That's actually also the smallest requirement we can set for ourselves when we know that we enjoy low interest rates, among other things. due to non-resident labour force making an effort here in Norway. The progress party here today says that they want to have an orderly relationship. But what measures do they have, apart from the fig leafing of the checklist for which they are currently applying, are. Now there are worse measurements for the Progress Party, and then they play, of course, their immigration card. Today, they presented a difficult report on a comprehensive, alternative immigration policy, including ten pages on labour migration. I raised myself above the document, and I expected that here we would find out what the Progress Party believes about labour immigration and wages. The closest I come, is what is said about the au pair scheme, in which they with great enthusiasm tell: ‘In Norway, the au pair scheme is very popular, as families with children thus receive reliable labour for cheap money.’ Furthermore, I don't see anything about social dumping issues, about the fraud of workers in Norway, about illegal work by Eastern European workers, which Fafo has rejected. But the optimism came up a little when I saw that they had their own chapter entitled ‘Actions and, if necessary, the need for further arrangements’. And we turn, and then we come to the chapter called ‘New EU Country and Transitional Rules’, where they say: ‘The most important thing during the transitional period is to have time to ensure welfare systems against the abuse of labour by immigrants, which may mean that it will be necessary to review all welfare systems that are at risk of being abused.’ I hear that the Progress Party says that they want tidy conditions in the workplace, and that they want to tackle social dumping. But I don't see any suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e821	The representative Fleet suggests that those who are in favour of actual and effective measures against social dumping have never been out of work or elsewhere and have informed themselves about the facts. I think it might also be a good idea for other representatives to go into the research reports such as this. Fafo has come with us in the case of Poles in Oslo. It is clear that every three Poles have been tricked into paying – every three! And 14 pst. has had a false contract. These are hard numbers. And what we're talking about now is just a little bit of business. The craft companies that several of us have visited say they are no longer doing anything. They go bankrupt in competition with the unprofessional unless the authorities now take more action. The fact is, unfortunately, that the labour market situation has more social dumping than we like. That's what attitudes are. From Proffice Stortinget has now received a new market analysis that they have got a company to look at, where it is said that 47 pst. by business managers, social dumping is a problem in the workplace. But at the same time it's also like, unfortunately, another 47 pst. doesn't think it's a problem. It says a little bit about the attitudes. The Fafo study also says something about attitudes when it is such that very many Norwegian families think it is entirely right to hire a Polish lady without rights and with a lice pay. It'll probably get cleaned up after the lady, but it's an incredibly bad deal for her. Then I don't think you take into account that we need to do much more. Then there are principles. Yes, for SV, it is an important principle that if someone sits on top and reaps a lot of profit and profit from not following the rules, for example. does not ensure proper and safe working conditions for their workers or provides them with a proper remuneration, increases the risk of being taken for it and risks arising from such behaviour. It is part of the watch responsibility that is now being put in place and that is also to be part of the basis on which the Labour Inspectorate is to be able to check the public tariff agreements. It is an important instrument for taking those who are unprofessional, while those who are serious should actually have a competitive advantage by demonstrating that they behave properly. It will be a major competitive advantage to have new contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e830	I have not disagreed with the representative Karin Andersen that social dumping is a problem. What I have tried to say is that using the term ‘social dumping’ cannot justify absolutely all measures, and that the means must be looked at. The representative, Andersen, says that we now have a bag responsibility, which is now being introduced. No, that's exactly what we're not doing. We don't know how this will work for Norwegian companies. We need to be aware that a large majority of Norwegian companies, including small businesses, although they have been in the spotlight here today, operate in a proper, real way, and they actually don't need more bureaucracy, they don't need more form fields. And it's also the fact that the value creation that's going on in the companies creates the well-being that the representative Karin Andersen and her party are usually at the forefront of the chain to distribute. We must then ensure that that basis is met.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e837	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 676]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e853	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 115 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e864	The odelstinget is today to deal with the setting of new private school law. The background to the Government's proposal has been a desire to stop the great emergence of schools that we have witnessed. The position of the Committee has been split. The majority consists of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The right and left deliver a comprehensive amendment with subsidiary support from the Progress Party. Common to both proposals is that they involve some changes and some restrictions — to a greater or lesser extent — of existing law. I expect that the Right and Left will clarify the content of their proposal. The invitation to negotiate this law has been very clear from the Government and the Council of State. Yes, I have never heard that other parties are invited to cooperate in the presentation of a bill as in this case. When the government presented its proposal for a new private school law, we noticed that it was not the major changes that had been made to the consultation draft. We saw that this could have consequences for many incubators. In fact, some schools would have been closed if the law had been passed. In addition, the law was designed to tighten up new types of schools with clean public parallels, but at the same time the schools that would be approved would be given too tight frames and unclear rights. The Christian People's Party could not sit and watch the adoption of a new private school law that would not be to live with too many of the colleges. We said when we came into opposition that we would be constructive, we said we would be constructive when the bill was presented, and we have been. I know that many have been grateful that the Christian People's Party took responsibility. The Christian People's Party will have a safe, good and strong public school, which will be the natural first choice for most people in Norway. At the same time, we want to facilitate the conditions for high school. Our starting point is that schools must be able to have a law that ensures the future of existing schools and that new ones can be created. That is what we have now achieved through the agreement with the government parties. For the Christian People's Party, the parental right is the basis for our support for the creation of health schools. It has been our consistent position since the matter came into our principal programme in 1936. It is absolutely essential for us that alternative religious and pedagogical schools should be able to be approved and have good framework conditions. This was the main focus when the then state council Kjell Bondevik in the 1960s wrote the first private school law on the kitchen bench at home. He wrote: ‘When performing functions which it assumes in the field of education and training, the State shall respect the right of parents to provide such education and education in accordance with their own religious beliefs and beliefs.’;» We must have a good public school and fresh schools as a supplement to it. The parental right is not about free schooling or freedom of choice. The right of parent is about parents who want a different education for their children than the one they receive in public schools being allowed to choose it. It is this right that is enshrined in human rights. In this way, as one of its main objectives, the law of free school has the rights of minorities. The improvements we have achieved through the agreement are many, and they are important. The majority assume that schools are approved when applied for within the defined qualification basis and other requirements of the law. The opinion of the host municipality or the host state will not determine whether a school may start or not. In addition, alternative schools may be started as a time-limited trial. Religious and educational alternative schools will be more able to be real alternatives to public schools. We have clarified that the Directorate-General for Education’s practice of interpreting the concept of ‘soft’ training with almost equal training in public schools is not correct. Now the colleges want, among other things. have the opportunity to move in hours as long as the objectives of competence of the subjects are maintained. The rigid system in which schools are awarded a maximum number of pupils at each year stage is replaced by each offer, i.e.: each training programme. Schools shall also be able to avoid setting objectives of competence at each stage, which is important, inter alia. for the Steiner Schools. They called the 6A schools, which consist of, among other things, Bible schools, art schools and others, shall have the same framework conditions whether they retain their place in the private school law, come under the law or come under a new law that will come. We are also pleased that, in the period until new legislation is in place, operational changes will be possible and to start new so-called 6A schools. The human rights law that governs parental rights and is the very basis for our free school thinking is incorporated into the legal text. All schools that provided adults with no secondary education with a new chance of education will continue to do so. There were several schools and lines that would be closed if this had not been continued. It is earlier because of the Riksrevision announced a review of schools for disabled people. For the Christian People's Party, it has been especially important to create security for these schools. We underline the value of maintaining schools that can provide children and adults with special needs with an organized offer. These will also have the possibility of operating changes in the future. clarifications are made as regards the possibilities for engaging in other activities and the purchase of training services. Finally, a small matter that does not affect so many, but which is so incredibly important to those who are involved, and who have been up in this room before. The schools for children of auxiliary workers are now saved by releasing the requirement for a minimum number of pupils at schools. In addition, they are given the opportunity to engage in decentralised education. We have thus ensured that children who are with their parents will not be sent to boarding school for longer periods and far away from their parents. These and a number of other points make colleges meet a safer future after that. We have been very clear on what we wanted to change in the Government's proposal, since the hearing draft was sent out. Both parties have had to go far. We have had to give and take on areas that have been difficult to break. We have had to give in to, among other things. the possibility of establishing cross-border schools, a pure law of rights and the name of the law. However, we are pleased with the result we have come up with. Representatives of colleges in Norway have said it might be even stronger than a southerner says: ‘This is a very good compromise.’ I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate, in particular, the head of the government parties, the representative Huitfeldt, but also the Council of State for the ability to listen and understand in order to reach agreement. I believe we've learned a lot through this process on both sides. The Government's negotiating intention has been to have a law of duration and to ensure stability. Free schools are not supposed to be throwing balls that have to deal with new laws and regulations at any government change. Whether this law will ensure this stability is now up to the Department and the Council of State. In fact, the crucial thing for the future of this law is not primarily the agreement. The decisive thing will be how the law will be practiced. The points of agreement and the comments we agree on are clear. Now it's up to the council. Finally, as the rapporteur-in-chief, I need to correct a typographical error in the setting, in Section 6A-8 of the Swedish Law on Secondary Education – Innst. O. No 88, page 38. The new legislative text on: ‘The Ministry may provide more detailed rules on the prohibition of dividends or other transfers as referred to in point (a); is part of the term above, which is the first term. In other words, the paragraph shall have three terms, not four. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e923	As regards the pressure error, the correction will be included in the decision. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e928	It is not possible to get away from the fact that the representative of the Christian People's Party is heard very pleased from the pulpit today. Sometimes the Christian People's Party talks about – it was also done in this post – the importance of freedom of choice. However, I record that freedom of choice is not general, but freedom of choice should only apply where there are concrete religious or pedagogical motives for parents to want a different choice. I'll take note of that. But this time the Christian People's Party is involved in a bill that is on a strong collision course with the bill proposed by the Bondevik II government a few years ago. The representative of Ola T. Lånke has earlier stated in a debate outside this room this week that the Christian People's Party will fight for the legislative proposal adopted today, even after the 2009 elections, as a starting point. Does this mean that we are now seeing a strong shift in line that will be of a lasting nature on the part of the Christian People's Party in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e939	This is not a powerful line break from the Christian People's Party. I have recently cost myself both to read Kjell Bondevik's thoughts about the first law, follow up Kjell Magne Bondevik's continuation, and now what Dagrun Eriksen has done. Those who have moved in this matter are not Christian People's Party, on the contrary, we have joined the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in ensuring a law for school types that normally lived very insecure with the constellation that is currently in government. The Christian People's Party has said, and I said in my article – and that is what I stand for – that what will be crucial to the stability and sustainability of this law will be the practice. We have now provided a good framework for the schools to work, and then it will be the practice that will be essential for the Christian People's Party to stand on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e948	Today's Christian People's Party is part of a law that moves approval from being a right to become a judgement. When the representative Dagrun Eriksen explained what the majority had agreed on, she elegantly jumped over a passus in a majority remark from the government parties and the Christian People's Party saying that one of the criteria of discretion should be the need for the school. On 4 August 2005, Jens Stoltenberg was asked by the Dagsavisen: «Is there a need for more private hospitals and private schools?» The answer was without reservation: «No!». Of course, there are also religious schools and educational alternative schools that want to start, because they are not guaranteed to be allowed to start. I assume that the Christian People's Party, unlike the Prime Minister, sees the need for more religious schools. But then the question is, Who and what determines the need, and when is the need satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e959	We have strengthened the basis of approval in relation to what was proposed as a draft consultation and as a legislative proposal here in the Chamber. We have said that we assume that within the criteria mentioned in the law, it should be an approval. One of the criteria is, as the representative Eriksen Soreide correctly mentions, the school needs. It's just that you have to be able to connect your senses. For example, this is a case in point. whether to open a religious school, which according to law will have the opportunity to start, in the neighborhood of another religious Christian school. Or should you say that right here there's no need for school? I know that the replicator has talked directly to the Council of State that this is a clause that must be treated with caution. It won't be treated depending on whether these are school types you like or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e966	The representative of the Christian People's Party is to be commended for the improvements that have taken place in the Government's proposal, which the Left has also mentioned. We divide paths because we do not consider the proposal collectively as good enough, but that is not what I am going to address now. A number of the improvements expressed are based on majority comments. I am a member of the Education Committee, similar to the representative Eriksen. We had a unanimous committee that had strong majority comments on the right of students to receive education in the context of drug treatment. After that, we have found that the majority comments have unfortunately not been so much worth. This does not apply to the representative Eriksen, because she stood firm on them in all subsequent rounds, but the rest of the majority suddenly disappeared. When so much rests on majority comments, and when a unanimous committee in the past agreed on something that we thought should be very strong, on something as basic as school provision in drug institutions, what security does the representative then have that these comments will be followed up in the further course of work, and in what she calls the practice of law?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e975	I'm sure of those comments and what we've come up with, for two reasons. One is that we also have a negotiated agreement, where we have signed that we are mutually committed to this. And it's very rare tradition that agreements are broken by signature. The other thing that makes me pretty sure that what we've agreed on, will also be followed up by the majority, is that through this process I have experienced and understood that the majority also want to get to a law that will be sustainable and that will be stable. In order to achieve that, we are totally dependent on the fact that the agreements and what we have agreed on are actually followed up in practical policy. I am confidently in favour of this, but I can promise that the Christian People's Party will be equally active and careful to ensure that this is followed up through the further process, as we have been active in the negotiations now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e984	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e988	Church singer, teacher and stammering representative of Left Jørgen Olafsen said about the two-part school system of the time at the end of the 1800s that it was "an education of stature and envy, in the class hatred which follows from childhood on each of its benches." And it sets "the different classes of society on each of their banks and to nurture this hatred between the different classes of society and the difference in standing which, in my opinion, is the deepest Saar of our society". [[...]] Our own Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, who does not really have the skills to sing church songs, says that one of the finest things in Norwegian society is the common school, where children and young people from different social classes are gathered. No matter what kind of society we come from, we meet in high school. It's diversity. It creates tolerance, and it creates less contradictions between people, because we've learned to know each other in public schools. The private schools we have today represent largely religious and educational alternatives to public schools. They don't create marked social divisions. We need these alternatives to public school. Therefore, the new law will protect the educational and religious alternatives to public schools. The schools we stop are those that do not represent an alternative to public school, but that will invest in the Norwegian school market. But we don't want a school market. We want students to have the right to a good public school offer and the opportunity to make alternative choices. We don't want religious and pedagogical alternatives to be put in the same booth as all the schools that finally got approval in the release that was the result of the previous law. The consequences of that law, the law on free schooling, had become a massive disintegration of public schools, with 15,000 new student places in high school. It led to protests from people of the Christian People's Party, from left-wing people, even from right-wing people throughout the country. The law turned out to be far more than what was expected, a threat to public school. That is why there was a good basis for the government parties and the Christian People's Party to join forces in negotiations on a new law – the Christian People's Party and the Center Party with the heart of many private schools, and all parties as warm followers of the common school. Initially, we agreed on the most important thing: a school law that would provide good opportunities for alternatives, but also defend the public common school. We want private schools to represent something qualitatively different than public schools. It is clear that the left has also gained some experience with the previous law when they have now got with them the right of restraints. It is now said that schools can be refused approval if this leads to a significant deterioration in public school provision. They will also tighten up the ability to collect profits, so that schools are prevented from becoming clean money machines. The restrictions cannot be interpreted differently than the fact that the previous law was too weak at this point. We also see that the left is not a follower of pure elite schools of real science or mathematics after patterns of top-notch gymnasiums. The PISA results do not support the idea of the Advance Party and the Right that we should collect the best in our own classes for the elite. It's not that the most good people get better from this, but we know from a Danish study that students with parents who have low education and low incomes do better if they go to classes that are socially diverse than if they go to school only with children with equal backgrounds. The Party of Advances is further involved in private school policy — freely ahead of profit and school money. Then the minimum check from the government becomes a minimum amount, and then it becomes free to get parents to put extra money in the pot, they have to pay for school places, so that the richest get the best teachers and the best equipment. We don't want such a school. We want the primary school to be the best for everyone. In the new law, the idea is that when we reduce the possibility of starting private schools, we meet the schools we drop out to, with greater fuss. That's why we're giving schools the opportunity to practice the professional and the hourly distribution rather more freely than the previous law of high school. We don't want a law where there are pure political assessments that underpin the recognition of school places. It was the seventh and last result of the old law. The Directorate gave substantive approval to a large number of new schools, but after the election, a purely ideological establishment of multiple new schools was carried out. It was not factual and sober. It was pure ideology. We want predictability for private schools, but also for public schools. Assistance schools should be able to start up, even if they do not all have pupils who meet the minimum requirement. And the schools that today are called 6A schools should also be safe for the future. The goal is for several of them to go to colleges, so that the students who go there can gain a higher level of competence. But not all the schools fit in there. A number of Bible schools do not provide vocational or secondary qualifications. They must be guaranteed a legal basis and funding in the new law. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Eriksen, for an enormous effort on the new law. Personally, I have thus received adult training in the field of mission work, in educational opportunities in Christian child and youth work, and in the conditions of detail in many small Christian schools I had never heard of. It's been instructive. The new law is very similar to the old private school law. It is a centralized private school law, a moderate private school law with the heart of the public school. In the first post I held as a newly elected staging representative on this pulpit, I wanted a broad agreement on a new private school law. That is why we can now present a joint proposal with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e1034	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e1037	All of them first: it's not like Stoltenberg went to this famous common school that Huitfeldt talked about. He actually went to Steiner School. I'll take up another thing. In the case of the Montessori schools, they are currently receiving a State grant equivalent to 85 pst. of what public schools receive. This is 85 pst. grants for operating costs, and it does not cover the costs of administration, premises and financial expenditure. Taking these costs into account, the grant to some schools covers around 60–65 pst. of the costs incurred in public schools. Does the representative think this is fair? What may be the impact on the school's ability to meet the legal requirement to have the same pay conditions as public schools? What are the possibilities for these schools to have the best teachers and the best equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e1044	It is true that our prime minister in parts of his schooling went to Steinerskolan, but as I said in my post, we do not believe that these educational options are a challenge for the common school. We need this diversity. But we don't need the new schools that have no other purpose than to invest in the Norwegian school market. When it comes to financing for private schools, we will come back to Stortinget with it in a separate case. This case is about the law. The funding will come in a different round.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e1051	I notice that the representative Anniken Huitfeldt has learned a lot in the process and learned a lot about religious freshies. I wish the representative Huitfeldt and the other representatives of the government parties had taken care of also learning a little more about the other colleges we have in this country, and actually know something more about what they think very strongly about, but they really don't care to study more, visit or find out more about. Anniken Huitfeldt mentions that there are no marked distinctions in the background of the religious educational alternatives in the school. A 2006 NIFU STEP report states: ‘Schools with educational provision that are ‘parallel’ with public schools offer have a significant share of all pupils in fresh schools. [[...]] There is variation in their recruitment patterns between different variants of such parallel schools. However, as a whole, they are less marked by misrepresentation of parental education and ethnicity than is the case for schools based on ‘life vision’ or ‘alternative’ pedagogy.’ How can the representative Huitfeldt then explain what she just said in her post?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e1063	Few of the new schools were established. But I have been able to read the following from a representative of John Bauer: ‘We see this as a very long-term investment. In the long term, there may be legislative changes that allow commercial operations to be carried out.’ So these schools represent something qualitatively different from what is the educational and religious alternatives we have today. We have seen, from the experience of Sweden and Denmark, that freedom of choice has led to greater social divisions. There has been a large accumulation of those who come from high incomes and high education, who go to private schools. The common school has been weakened like the arena. We can look at the experience of our Nordic neighbouring country. That is why we want a strong common school, with some religious and pedagogical alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e1075	The 2003 Act is not Swedish law. It's completely different. It is not the Danish law and tradition that are different. It's not the British tradition that's different, but the one that's been made in Norway. I expect the Huitfeldt representative and I have it in common in faith in the public common school, that people would not automatically escape from it, if anyone were to escape. I just have to say that the representative thinks it's a pity that we're going to have cross-country schools, as we got it in Vats long before they became religious and had to call themselves Montessori. The representative probably also takes it as a matter of fact that you could get some sparkling good examples of professional courses that are better than the ones we now have. But my question to the representative is this: Which of the schools that exist under the 2003 Act does the representative think he should be able to make a profit – as has been said in the public debate – and have been allowed to get away with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e1080	In any case, I register that the representative Dørum, in cooperation with the right party, has been in favour of tightening up the previous law on free school on this point. This can only mean that the previous law was not strict enough on this point. We have statements from the schools themselves. We also have statements from a number of economists that say there are other ways to make money than by making dividends. So these have been market actors. They may not be able to make a profit, but they are established to make money on the Norwegian school market. There is something qualitatively completely different than what is the educational and religious alternatives that we want to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower.ana.ud2578e1085	The cord shift is over. Since the next speaker has a speaking time of up to 15 minutes and there will be a change of lines afterwards, the President will propose that we now end the meeting so far today, and that a new meeting be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
