ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e47	Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Left on sick leave of the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug from 1 February onwards and until further notice from the representative Hans Olav Syversen on leave on 1 and 2 February to attend the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Gunn Berit GärdeFor Oslo counties: Aud Kvalbein.3. Gunn Berit Girde is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets the representative of Leif Helge Kongshaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e81	Gunn Berit Gjerde and Aud Kvalbein are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e87	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is considered unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. Before we move on to agenda No. 44, the president will remember that what the representatives see is set up two screens on each side of the hall. It's not to be able to be photographed, but there will be a list of speakers at any time, and it will be continuously adjusted according to the drawing. It's a technological innovation in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e105	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e114	We are discussing today a proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:8 to establish an independent competition subject for the appeal of competition cases. The background to the proposal is that the Government today has the possibility to use two alternative foundations to transform the Competition Surveillance Authority’s decisions. In addition to reviewing on a political basis, the Government has the power to review the Competition Authority on a professional basis. The proposers believe this is unfortunate, and they have noticed in particular that three of the Competition Authority's decisions have been reversed in the last year. In two of the cases, decisions have been made by the Ministry on a professional basis, including: the merger between Gilde and Prior. In one case, the King has converted the decision under Section 21 of the Competition Act on matters of principle and major social interest. This is the case of the merger between Prior and Norgården, where the reason was that the Government found that social considerations outweighed competition. The proposers also believe that there is reason to ask questions about whether the Government has sufficient competence to carry out an optimal procedure. They request that the Government make proposals during the spring of 2007 on changes to the competition law, in order to establish an independent competition topic for the handling of appeals. The Committee has had an open hearing on the matter. There was only one meeting – it was the NHO. They support the proposal to create a complaint subject. According to Section 16 of the Competition Act, the Ministry and the Competition Authority shall only assess cases on the basis of their professional experience and leave to the Government to balance the concerns of competition with other social considerations. I am pleased that we have these features of competition law that can act as a safety valve, so that proper decisions can be taken on the basis of a holistic policy. In this way, competition policy can be put in a context in which other important societal considerations are also assessed. Examples of different aspects may include: the desire to maintain Norwegian jobs, or there may be agricultural policy considerations. Both this government and the previous government have converted decisions of the Competition Authority because of e.g.: agricultural policy, so there is no drama in this. It is also important for me to say that this obviously does not mean that we are not preoccupied with competition. There shall be no doubt that the competition law is in place. The majority of the committee argues that this proposal is not adopted by the Stortinget. The issue of the creation of an independent competition topic was the last discussion in Stortinget in the course of the 2004 Competition Act. The majority that time, the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, then assumed that individual decisions under the new law were to be appealed to the Department. Today's competition law has only worked for almost three years. The majority agree with the Ministry that the basis of experience is too thin to provide the basis for implementing such a major change in the law as proposed by the proposers. Nor do I think there is any reason to question the professional quality of the department's handling of appeals. In fact, in the ministry, we have the country's top experts on the legislation, and the professional assessments they make should not, in my opinion, be in doubt. I recommend the setting of this plural number.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e145	With a new government, the Stoltenberg II government, we have also got a new policy on competition. We have now seen that we have received a government that actively intervenes and transforms the Competition Authority's decision. There's a lot of examples of that. Statkraft, Trondheim Energieverk, Gilde–Prior, Prior–Norgården are some examples. This means that the consumer is being hit. The government does not take the consumer into account. You get less competition and higher prices, and you also get less diversity. In other words, the interests of business and consumers are set aside. For business this leads to an increased form of political risk. It is probably not to hide that strong interests in the agricultural sector have been realised and won. For this red-green government, the relationship between the country and the agricultural sector is positive: its stronger state and its more state-driven agricultural sector, the better it is, unfortunately. What worries us is that the government does not take into account the professional competence that the consumer perspective and the competition supervision should have, but does not take into account it. There is a use of political power — or simply abuse of political power — that is worrying. The special feature of the merger between Prior and Gilde was among others: that during appeals, a number of key politicians were out in the media and almost dictated and demanded what the government's conclusion was to be. A huge pressure was put in, and it did not come as a surprise that the result was as it turned out, unfortunately. It is only necessary to record that agricultural interests have a solid foothold in the Government and are almost allowed to do as they wish, and that consumers' interests are sacrificed. All of this in order to protect Norwegian agriculture, which is subsidised by over 20 billion dollars a year. At this stage, we feel that it is important and right to have such a change in the review procedure made following a decision by the Competition Authority, which will mean that the Government will lose the opportunity to reverse decisions based on its own professional and political judgements, and that all appeal proceedings will initially take place in a politically independent competition subject. The fact that you get a professional body to deal with these issues, we think it's right because the government is running politics and not competition policy. With this, I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right who are in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e160	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e163	Although the new Competition Act has not yet been amended, there is little doubt that the current government is carrying out a silent revolution in competition policy. Four out of four appeals have been lifted. In the food sector, the Ministry of Agriculture, as a clear strategy, has to use reduced competition as an instrument to cater for allies in agricultural cooperatives. The Government has completed a major research project on competition and will also weaken competition in public procurement. It's a clear change of course. The right is critical of the new competition policy because it is anti-consumer and prevents innovation and necessary change. Poor consumer policies affect them with the weakest economy, and poor competition policy weakens the competitiveness of business. The purpose of the proposal presented in Document No. 8:8 for 2006-2007, however, it is not to stop the Government’s weakening of competition policy, but to make the appeals of competition cases more orderly and predictable. So the right supports the government’s democratic right – if we never disagree so much – to lift decisions taken by the Competition Authority on a political basis. On the other hand, we believe that the lifting of decisions that have been appealed on a professional basis should be as free as possible from political interference. The size should adopt laws and regulations, while professional judgement should be exercised in an independent, credible and predictable manner. The problem that the Government is both a professional and a political appeal body became very evident in the treatment of the Gilde-Prior merger. Politically, there were strong forces in the process of overstepping the Competition Authority’s ban on the merger. The Minister of Agriculture was early out with support for the merger on a commercial policy basis. Similarly, the prohibition of prior purchase of Norgården was also reviewed on a political basis. The justification given was, in my view, very weak and subsequently proved to be based on erroneous expectations of developments in the WTO negotiations. The Prior–Norgården case showed that the government threshold for the review of the Competition Authority is very low. It also showed that it is difficult for the Government to justify a review of consumer considerations in a politically sustainable manner. It is clearly less politically burdensome if a merger ban can be lifted on a professional basis. Following the Government’s review of the Competition Authority in the Gilde-Prior case, it is also stressed by the merging parties that the review was on a professional and non-political basis. When the political threshold for the review of competition and consumer concerns is low, the reliance on professional appeals is also put to the test in cases where there is a strong political commitment. Therefore, in order to ensure maximum predictability and confidence in the procedure, it would be beneficial for the treatment of appeals on a professional and political basis to be carried out by different bodies. It is also due to the complexity of this matter that there will be an advantage to a specific mention of competition specialists in this type of appeal. The majority of the cases, including the Right, which the Advocate-General mentioned, committed themselves in the context of the conciliation process during the examination of the notification of supervision not to adopt any changes in the review procedure during the previous part-session. In the current period, we are free to take a new political assessment of this fundamental issue. The Competition Law Committee made a clear recommendation in its recommendation that independent competition supervision should have an independent appeal body as an appeal body. This view was initially supported by the previous government and had full support from, among others. NHO. The NHO argued in the hearing at the time as well as in this case that an independent complaint subject would ensure predictability for business, and that political governance in any case would be safeguarded by the possibility of review on a political basis. This principle approach supports the Right. We also believe that the practice of competition policy with the new government clearly illustrates the need to distinguish between political and professional appeals. The majority oppose the proposal, but do not argue in principle. It is shown that the new competition law has only worked for two years. It is also claimed that the proposal is a profound change. My opinion is that this is not a profound change, and that the time aspect is of little importance since this is a fundamental question. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the Council of State in the letter attached to this matter gives a strong signal related to the practice of political appeal proceedings. In the letter, the Council of State writes that the Government has a desire to simplify the procedure relating to the political review of the Competition Authority’s decision. It shows that, unfortunately, competition and consumer concerns are very weak under this Government and that there is a need to distinguish clearly between political and professional appeals. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the Right subsidiary will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left in the vote, if our proposal falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e197	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has explained how he advises the group to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e200	The essence of this matter is trust – trust that the governmental powers are able to distinguish between professional judgements and political balances between different societal considerations, and confidence that there is no political significance that really governs even professional judgements. Right, with the support of the Progress Party, does not say directly in their comments in the committee setting that they believe the ministry has benefited from the competition law in a professionally inappropriate way when it did about the Competition Authority's decision in the matters of Prior and Norgården and Prior and Gilde. However, between the lines there is still an aura of suspicion that it has our political assessments hidden in a formal exercise of professional objection to the Competition Authority’s basis for intervention. I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party does not find any reason to ask questions at the department's professional basis in the matters in question. We believe that the Council of State is so tidy that if it really was a political assessment that made the decision, the Ministry would not have dealt with the matter as an appeal under competition law, but as an ordinary political case, and consequently could also have our complaint for a political assessment in the Council of State. On a principle basis, we still believe that there may be good grounds for looking at the submission of complaints to the Competition Authority on a professional basis to a body that is not directly politically governed. Given the general confidence that the board of directors can distinguish between professional and political assessments, it is necessary to maintain a two-track complaint system, an independent complainant with legal and economic competence at the level of the Competition Authority can be a good idea. That is not the number of years since the decision on competition law was taken, as the government fraction draws up, which is decisive. There is no experience or lack of experience on the basis of the criticism, that is the principle itself. If the State Council comes from SV or from the Progress Party, it is fundamentally uninteresting in this context, for the same question can be asked whether it is an inconclusive legal and economic assessment of the basis for intervention that has been useful by the Ministry. The Christian People’s Party will also stress that competition, of course, should also be focused on other social concerns. There are important societal considerations that are behind the desire for Norwegian Agricultural Cooperation to be a strong player with authority to drive market regulation in order to achieve policy objectives for agricultural industries. There shall be a threshold in order to be able to reduce the competitive pressure, but it shall also be possible to go above this threshold if there are significant reasons for doing so. A living agriculture throughout the country is e.g. such a reason. Against this background, the Christian People's Party, together with the Left Government, is again asking for an independent complaint panel for competition cases, or for other measures for a clearer distinction between professional and political complaint handling, should be implemented. I'm taking up our presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e217	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e220	Competition supervision has a very important role to play in ensuring the necessary competition in a number of important areas. Competition surveillance decisions are the best basis for ensuring competition. Therefore, politicians, in this case the Government or the King of the State Council, should and should be very careful to make decisions that the Competition Authority has taken and on which it is complained. However, the cause of complaint is a democratic right that must be there, but it is a right that must be used with good understanding, and it should be an exception when the Government intervenes. It has also been practised until the government change in 2005. Also, the previous government, where the Left took part, amended decisions made by the Competition Authority. But as I think it happened only once in four years, that is, when the joint purchase East West got the opportunity to purchase the Norwegian mills under certain conditions in order to secure a competitive Norwegian operator in a Nordic food mill market. It is primarily the problem in this matter — the use of understanding, or the lack of understanding and exceptions to the rule, which has been more common. In fact, the government has done well to review the Competition Authority's decisions in each of the cases that have been complained about there after the government change. Then it becomes no longer an exception, but a rule and a powerful weakening of the authority and judgment of the Competition Authority. Common to all cases is that there are press groups that are close to the Government and the government party, who have complained and have had the decisions reversed. There is not least reason to point out, as many have also done here today, that when the Government, aside from the decisions of the Competition Authority, relates to Prior’s purchase of Norgården and then the merger with Gilde, it is hardly feasible to make good use of competition policy. The left believes that there are many good reasons to look at the proposals of the Competition Law Committee, including when it comes to the creation of an independent competition topic, as suggested here today. In particular, it is decisive that the competition complaint handling legislation and the system cannot be misinterpreted. However, it is the view of the Left that, initially, there is no law wrong, but a government that uses its leadership and practices it in a bad way. We've seen the government act in a way that doesn't exactly ask for a new course, new times and independent competition policy. The Seasmen of the Joint Society of 14 days ago witnessed everything but free and unhindered competition. In the middle of a hectic state council day, no less than three of the government's most busy state councils had the opportunity to visit the Joint League's representation, and from there they went home again with each of their checks in the wallet: 1.1 million. SEK to the Labour Party, SEK 200000 to SV and NOK 100000 to the Centre Party. In the founding to support the government party, the Joint Confederation says its leader, Kjell Bjørndalen, etc. the creation of a red-green government and the policy that has been pursued since the election show that there has been a development in which both the SV and the Central Party are now closer to what the Joint Alliance stands for. And we see that, for example. in the case of gas-fired gas-fired waste, where they have failed the environment, and we see it in professional questions when it concerns the Centre Party. And more clearly, it is certainly not possible to say that political principle and position are at stake. It is sad for the Centre Party and SV that they are now part of the same relationship that the Workers' Party has been in for all of its time, but it is sad to say that there is a question mark that has to be put in which direction the weight is the most important, for example. to the Government's complaint handling in competition matters. Are they special interests, or are they citizens and consumers? In its ultimate consequence, this could be about lack of democracy and lack of openness. The left is with the Christian People's Party in the proposal to reconsider an independent review.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e238	I am pleased that the majority in the Committee agrees that the Storting should not adopt Document No. the 8-proposal for the establishment of an independent competition body for the appeal of competition cases. It is in line with the view I expressed in a letter to the Committee on 27 December 2006. The fact that the Department of Two Complaints under Section 20 of the Act has had a different professional assessment than the Competition Authority, or that the Government has a different political focus on different societal aspects from that of the proposers in a case of conversion under Section 21 does not, of course, give any reason to introduce a complaint subject for competition. Nor is it that the department has maintained by law the Competition Authority's intervention against Falck's purchase of Viking Bilberging in the decision of 17 January, changes my view of it. The division of competences and the 2004 competition law procedure are marked by St.melding No. 17 for 2002-2003, on State supervision. Storing process of message resulted in more than one message a clearer distinction was made in merger cases between decisions based on competition considerations and decisions in which the conversion takes place following a balance between different political considerations. In its appeal proceedings, the Ministry can only take professional care of Section 16 of the Competition Act. Conversion after a balance between different important societal considerations must be made by the King of State Councils under Section 21. In this way, it will be clear when more attention has been paid to matters other than competition. However, a minority, the Progress Party and the Right, claim that there has been a mix of policies and subjects in all cases of corporate tax registrations. At the same time, questions have been asked whether the Government has sufficient professional competence to carry out defence proceedings in professionally demanding individual cases. I would like to emphasize that the debt to mix trades and policies in complaints under Section 20 of the Competition Act is unfounded. It is my department that, after a professional in-depth review procedure, takes a decision by complaint about interference with company tax clearances. We're going to remember that it's the big conflict cases that's being filed into the department. To the extent that the department comes to a different conclusion from supervision, it is due to professional dissatisfaction, not due to political dissatisfaction. This is the result of a normal appeal procedure under the administrative law that provides legal certainty and is necessary and common in order to ensure that laws are understood and properly practised. It is also consistent with the legal system that the King of State Council has in one case placed more emphasis on agricultural policy than on competition. The government can live well with a different view of agricultural policy than the Right and the Advance Party. However, there is no need to change the competition law. Another minority, the Christian People's Party and the Left, think that as long as the ministry is politically governed, one could always draw doubt as to whether purely professional arguments have been decisive for a decision, even if over-testing is purely professional. I disagree with that, but I see that presented by the Christian People's Party and the Left can be seen in the context of a broader debate on the organisation of complaint proceedings in the state. The competence to deal with complaints means the ability to govern and influence the practice of law and regulation. The question of who should be involved must be considered in the field of division between the scope of political responsibility and professional legitimacy. On a general basis, I would warn against several aspects of developments in the last decade, where the review procedure in various areas has been added to specific complaints subjects. The establishment of independent review bodies entails additional administrative costs. It is often necessary to allocate more resources to the area and to pay some high fees to the members of the Board of Appeal. The students bring with them increased bureaucracy, creating a new phase in the proceedings. It should be a crossroads of thought for both the Right and the Advance Party, or else it will be very eager to reduce governance to a minimum. One can also ask questions if the denominators are in any case well suited to retaining the requirement of independence, even though most of them are just created with it in mind. In the case of a number of complaints, the Court of First Instance is the case and in several cases it is the author of a proposal for a decision. In that case, there is reason to ask whether the names actually take care of independence to a greater extent than the ordinary review procedure according to the main model of the administrative law, which is, therefore, to appeal to the ministry. With this, I am pleased that the majority in Stortinget supports the Government's view that independent complaints bodies in the competition law are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e264	The Council of State took a clear view of the professional competence of the Department to decide on the pending cases. However, in the light of the Government's eagerness to overrun the Competition Authority, I wonder whether the Council of State considers that the Competition Authority has the professional weight and competence to be the state's tool to ensure a level playing field in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e269	Currently, the Government is not in a position to overrun the Competition Authority in any way. We deal with each appeal case that comes into the department's table, separately, goes into the matter carefully, and we have 60 working days to make a thorough assessment. And what's kind of a good starting point for us is that we have our entire Competition Authority working with us in that work. But in addition to reviewing the assessments made by the Competition Authority – and as they do in a brilliant way, let’s not doubt it – we will see if there are any other concerns that should be on our behalf, or whether we support the assessments made by the Competition Authority. We did that, as I said, we haven't done two things. If one goes in and reads – and I recommend that the representatives do – both the Competition Authority’s assessment and the professional assessments of the Ministry, one will be able to see that it is not possible to interpret the Prior-Gilde appeal proceedings in any other way than that the merger had to be allowed on the basis of competitive conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e274	The Council of State said that she was pleased that the proposal was not adopted, and that it was voted down and rejected by the majority. But what remains in this matter is that there is a broad consensus in the Storting that a political safety valve should be available, and that a political disagreement exists about how it is practised. We believe that the government is practicing it far too widely and is overstepping the supervision in all cases that are being appealed to. But the argument against this principleal division between professional and political appeals is advanced by the majority in relation to the fact that the law has worked for a short time, and that there is a profound change with such a professional appeal. But it is not argued in principle by the majority in addition to the fact that the law has worked for a short time, and that it is a profound change. Can the Council of State tell us why she thinks it is fundamentally important that the Government should have both a professional and a political treatment, when it is quite obvious that in matters where the Government has a strong political commitment, there will be doubts about the choice of justification in this type of overrun of the Competition Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e281	Let me first say that we haven't changed all the things that have been complained after the government change. Last 17 January, we were some with the Competition Authority in prohibiting merger between Falck and Viking, or that Falck was going to buy Viking – so there we were quite a few. When I am opposed to creating a complaint subject, what I said at the end of my post is because we can definitely question the independence of this. The President of the Court of First Instance is the President of the Court of First Instance, who often makes proposals for decisions on the subject of appeal. How independent, then, is he in relation to a department, which goes into it on a self-contained basis? Yes, of course, we use the Competition Authority's assessment as the starting point for what we're going into, but we're doing a completely independent assessment. It is an important principle in a legal state like Norway that we have independent and independent appeals. The ministry does that, and it was the majority that agreed when we created a new competition law, which has been working for two and a half years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e288	Since the possibility allows, I'll refer to section number. two in the letter from the Council of State to the Committee during the examination of this matter, where the Council of State warns that it will propose amendments to the Competition Act on the basis of a wish to simplify the political procedure for overruns on a political basis. The government has overrun two issues on a political basis. It concerns the Prior-Norgården acquisition, and it concerns the Statkraft-Trondheim Energy Works Merger. In the Prior–Norgården acquisition, there was a very superficial argument that WTO negotiations made it necessary to ensure the competitiveness of Prior in the Norwegian market. And then it turned out in retrospect that that assumption fell away, and that the whole decision is really based on a wrong basis. But whatever the political assessment, it doesn't seem exactly to the outside world that this was a very difficult process for the Government. My question is, what makes the government need to simplify the procedure in these kinds of cases, in addition to the simple procedure you actually have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e293	Let me just add that my letter to the Committee does not say that we should be able to overrun the Competition Authority more easily. That's for the representative Hansen's account. At least it's not a direct quote from my letter. It says that we want to see if we can simplify the process. I think it is right to communicate it to the Committee and to the Stortinget when I consider making changes. I recommend that the representatives wait to characterise a proposal until they have actually seen what it's all about. We're running and working on it now, and I've notified it. I believe that it will come to Stortinget in the course of the year. I recommend that we wait with the discussion about that change to the representatives actually see what it's all about. Otherwise, I would also like to remind you that it is not as the representative, Mr. Gerde, said, that it was only in one case that the Bondevik administration reviewed the decisions of the Competition Authority. In fact, five things were changed in that period – among others. This is due to the argument about district work places, one due to the argument about agriculture and agricultural policy considerations, and a power merger was adopted at the time of the Bondevik II administration. So it's not up to us to use Section 21 neither for this government nor for the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e303	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e308	I have to respectfully say that I feel bad again in the description of the government’s management of the Competition Authority and the competition policy that we have heard from several in the Chamber today. It's especially the agriculture it's been focused on, and it's claimed that agriculture is subsidised so that farmers don't bet on innovation and development, and that we're at all getting a sedentary situation that this government is going to be very concerned about protecting. I think it is a completely incorrect description of the situation. The subsidies do, first of all, that as consumers we get cheaper food than we would otherwise have. That's the point of them. I find it very difficult to see any drama in the way the government has handled these matters. In the overview of the matters that have been dealt with by changing governments, which the Council of State itself had in mind in its reply in the reply to the reply, here, you can see how it has happened. I show you, among other things: the Bondevik II Government converted the Nobø-Dimplex merger in 2004, in the light of employment and export considerations, and something similar in the case of Norwegian mills from the same year, where agricultural policy considerations were found to weigh more heavily. I think the government has dealt with these matters in a very competent and good way, and I think that is all reason to recommend that the majority's proposals get overwhelming opening up in the Chamber this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e317	Unlike the previous speaker, I actually see some drama in how the government handles competition policy. In the NRK today there was a message that it was going to be cheaper to call. A third mobile network was opened in Norway. There we see the effect of pursuing an effective competition policy. It could be fun to see if Norwegian had received the necessary help to establish itself in the monopoly situation we had with SAS, with today's government. Competition policy is a pillar of welfare development in the same way as trade. In both areas, we as a society have challenges. The political challenge, of course, is that the impact and impact of tough competition affects a few strong specific interests in some cases, while the benefits are spread to many. In the media image we see, it's rarely the many and scattered beneficiaries who win. The safety valve referred to by the Council of State is often used by those in need of protection from the impact of competition. It's not hard to interpret that exact picture almost daily in the press. In the long term, however, it is quite undeniable that effective competition policy ensures the best development. This is why the market economy has won over socialism as a system in this area. Switchovers face challenges if you limit competition – it weakens. A transition is rarely the end of something good, it's actually the beginning of something better – if you just take the challenge in it. Competition policy should be strengthened rather than weakened in the way we see today. The intrusion of competition, the emergence of special interests, means that the consumer pays the bill. In a world where online commerce, which can be read as open imports, becomes more common, and where people travel more and more, this becomes more and more critical. The same applies to Norwegian businesses that are required to compete outside. Research clearly shows that if you are going to be international, you must be at least at home in the first instance, and you have to cope with competition at home. Governments finally talked a little about resource use. While it is clear that competition needs to be monitored as a form of competition, research also clearly shows that the effects and benefits of competition are so much greater that it defends this resource use.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e327	I am disappointed, but not surprised at the political approach of the red-green parties in this matter. At the same time, I note with interest that the political effects and effects of the approach to an offensive or lack of offensive competition policy are being reduced. I actually thought you had a different approach in a time and in a situation where we see that the international attention to just legal, correct, healthy and good competition is greater than ever. I also record with interest the examples that are referred to, that this is a mix of political reasons and reasons and professional reasons for intervention in terms of Tine, Statkraft or who you might think. I think one should look for a long time in these sectors to find out that these are good examples of areas that are particularly marked by competition – at least I don't think those who pay the final invoice feel that this is an area of competition. I think tomorrow needs more that you are not now left with a winged competition supervision, whether we are talking about Norwegian aviation or Norwegian offshore industry or what we need to talk about. We see that it's the big giants we have in Norway, who are primarily getting loans, time and attention, and who take the political back door more than using the arguments that are really going to, if there's someone who needs the concept of protection as a vignette for an approach to stabbing competition. I think this is dangerous with this case. This is the creepy thing. When we look at the political approach in this area, this is particularly worrying. It is clear that we now have a wing-backed competition supervision that does not to any extent withstand any other threshold or level of over-testing, and that is very worrying. If there is something we need also in Norway, there is a competition authority that can act strongly, robustly and professionally, and there is no risk that in the back room there will be some political lines to tell us how to finally balance the conclusion, or rather that you should not intervene where you should have intervened at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e338	I record that the representative Kristiansen finally released the cat from the bag as he expressed disappointment that the government is not leading what he calls a more offensive competition policy. Yeah, exactly, politics. Because that's the policy that's really about. It is also policy when Ivar Kristiansen believes that the Competition Authority has been winged. I should have liked a more detailed explanation for that, because that's a completely different reason Kristiansen uses than his party trap Torbjørn Hansen uses. And I have to say that the interesting thing about this is that for something over a year ago, when the Right even clothed the government offices, they saw no need to introduce any independent complaint topic in this area. It is only now, after we have a different competition policy, that the Right wants to remove competition policy from the policy. I have to say that I think that the representative Sørfonn points to something that is absolutely crucial and important in this context, when he says that it is perfectly legitimate for a government to base political assessments on a decision in complaints in competition policy, just as legitimately as it is to use professional grounds for the decisions taken. I think it has become clear that the proposal we are dealing with right now is an attempt to cover up to the Right's real intentions, namely to criticise competition policy in general. Then I think you could do it with blank weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e349	I just felt like taking the word. I have to say that I am responding to some of the characteristics that the representatives from the Right bring here to really put a question mark on the professional integrity of the Competition Authority. It is not this government that does it; on the contrary, we have been very careful to stress that the work done by the Competition Authority is necessary. That is important, and of course it is good for competition in those areas and in those markets where we have decided to have competition. The fact that representatives from the Right now use a feature of the Competition Authority that is so negative and that is involved in taking away from the Competition Authority the authority that it actually needs to do its work, I think I'm directly looking, and I hope they'll think about it further in the future. If you go in and look at the things we've done – I recommend the representative of Kristiansen to do – then the first thing we had on the table was the merger between Oilwell and Varco, which went on delivery of drilling equipment and piping systems to the North Sea. There, the Competition Authority had restricted the market to being just the North Sea. We went out and asked all competing suppliers to Oilwell, all the customers of these companies. All are certain that is an international market, the market is linked to supplies to the offshore industry. It was then a competitive argument to say that the market is not the North Sea area, as the Competition Authority said; the market is international. In doing so, we had to repeal the Competition Authority’s decision and allow merger. I would like to see if right after going through that matter, there is disagreement in that position. Then we are left with two things – the one after § 16, Prior–Gilde merger. The reason we had to allow mergers was that we agreed with the Competition Authority that it is likely that, within a short time-frame, to which we have to adhere under competition law, Prior-Gilde would establish itself on a limited part of the market, i.e. on processed goods, largely imposed. But where would they pick up the raw materials? Well, either they had to pick up the raw materials from Prior, or they had to pick them up from the competitor of Prior, who was the Pride Hane. Ergo would be a processing point for Prior and not a competitor. It's a competitive view that I don't understand that it's possible to have. There's no chicken to get from anyone else, and then there's a processing link that increases the edge of Prior and doesn't push prizes or push competition. It is a competitive assessment that stands out, and therefore we had to make a different decision than the Competition Authority had made. I will not in any way benefit from such characteristics that the Right-Representatives have come with today. It is far, far from what I wanted to say is right when it concerns the Competition Authority's important and thorough and good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e358	I felt that there was reason to take the word, because the representative Gullvåg just made an entire post based on an obvious misunderstanding. He claimed that the Right in the previous period did not need independent appeals in matters on a professional basis. It's directly wrong. It is clear from both the cancellation and from the cases that were dealt with during the previous large-scale period that this was a settlement that was made with, among other things, The Working Party in the context of the treatment of the supervisory notification. The Competition Law Committee recommended an independent review body in professional matters. It was also the starting point of the Government in a case that was promoted for Stortinget. There was also an agreement in Stortinget with, among other things, The working party in which it was accepted not to propose such an independent review body during the previous large-scale period. It is clear from the landfill treatment that there was no other wish from, among other things. Right over the previous period, rather than establishing a professionally independent complaint subject, as indicated in this proposal. The installation to Gullvåg was therefore based on an obvious misunderstanding. Otherwise, I find it strange that the Council of States, on the one hand, argues against a change in competition policy and, on the other hand, argues that there has actually been a change. There is no doubt that the Government has chosen to ignore competition in all cases where they have faced a choice. It happened immediately after the government change in relation to the Statkraft-Trondheim Energy Works case, it happened in the Prior-Norgården case, and it happened in the Gilde-Prior case. The government cut a research project on competition policy by 25 million. kr. We have had the so-called cheese war under the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The same applies to the proposal to tighten up foreign processing practices and to the attack on public procurement legislation. An interview with the director of the Competition Authority just a few weeks ago clearly confirms that there has been a dramatic change in the course of competition policy. I think the government parties should acknowledge that, and they should rather try to explain why they want to weaken consumer concerns instead of trying to explain that there has been a price change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e367	It is usually nice to be referred to by other speakers, as Steinar Gullvåg made for my post, but at the same time the danger of any of the points disappearing, always present. So I want to clarify a little bit what I said, and at least what I meant. When Steinar Gullvåg says that I have said that it is legitimate to base other assessments than competitive ones in the review of the Competition Authority's decision, it is enough to draw it a little far. I actually said the opposite. When we apply to a two-track system, it is because, of course, the law on competition is to be relied on in appeal proceedings and purely competitive conditions to be assessed. But, of course, it is also legitimate for a government and political authority to take a different decision, to take other judgements, but then it must be made open and tidy. Because what's the problem here is just the suspicion of a mix-up. I also tried to say that in the Christian People's Party we do not owe the Council of State for mixing here. We think it has been a tidy treatment. But just the suspicion that there can be a mix-up, do something with the trust of the system. That is why, in our glittering proposal, we are trying to help clear the landscape – to keep confidence. I felt a certain need for this cleanup, and I hope that now – if possible – this is even clearer from our side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e376	I asked for the word just to make it clear that I have not registered that there are any from the Right who have been attacked by the Competition Authority in this debate. If there is someone who has perceived my post to be in the direction of attacking the Competition Authority, I have shown a formidable ability to express myself in the convent. You never have to ignore that. What is important in this case, I think, is to look at how competition policy is applied nationally and not least internationally — with the attention it has gradually received, not least in a nation such as Norway, which more than other countries are characterised by a very large amount of public ownership. My main point was in fact that today's government, through its exercise of so-called political discretion in some large, heavy and principal matters, has indirectly contributed to weakening the authority of the Competition Authority. That's what's been my main concern. It is obvious that in the case of strong and robust public oversight, which, in the most principal and greatest cases, is being repeatedly overtaken by politics, one must have a really sharp look at the political field to see that it is competition that is strengthened by going on the errand of Tines or Statkraft. Then I think you're also on wild roads. At least no large arms are used from the Right on this issue. It is obvious that a supervision that has been given the clearly defined professional task of exercising competition supervision will be both more weakened and less able to intervene where one has to feel that there is a risk of being over-tested. That is the very opposite we need to meet the challenges in the competition sector in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e387	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e403	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e423	The main reason for travelling this interpellation is not to get honey and good Christmas-wanted for ten minutes for how nice and great it is that I address this question in Stortinget. The main background is that a group of people, boys and girls in Norway in 2007 live in a way that many others lived in this country more than 50 years ago: in shame, in hiding, in denial and in an environment marked by threats and also violence to push individuals into the so-called right path. These human rights violations take place, with very few honourable exceptions, in reality with silent but also partly with the clear agreement of parts of official Norway, representatives of immigrant organisations, religious leaders and others. After last year’s examples of violence against homosexuals, an important debate took place in different immigrant settings. Some people perceived me – in part deliberately misunderstood – when they found that this issue concerns only Islam and Muslims. However, as I see it, this is primarily not a religious question, but a matter of cultural prejudice, which thrives as well in parts of so-called macho rights as football, in the military and in the schoolyard, regardless of ethnic and religious affiliation. At the same time, there is no reason to hide that it is a fact that Islam as religion has not undergone the Reformation that Christianity has done, and that combined with outside pressure, increasingly Christians, bishops too, have a completely different view of the question than they had before. It is symptomatic in itself that the short-term debates – there is also a point that they become very short-lived – that occurred after the violent incident last summer and the chronicle of the Evening Post of the anonymous writer in December, were solely about men having sex with or who are happy with other men, and that, for example, violence, threats and discrimination against lesbian women with immigrant background have not yet been put on the agenda. It illustrates my main point, that the violence episodes lead to the fact that no gay boy or man with Muslim cultural background dares to stand up other than anonymously in Norway after 50 years of increasing acceptance, and one would think that this was a safe place to be. It has, as I see it, a background in a reactionary sexual orientation that creates a cultural conflict in the same way as in Christian reactionary environments – or in the wardrobe of the football team, for that matter. Islam has no monopoly on religious dark men. We find them in most religions. Religion is not a single factor either, but in the overall picture it is not uninteresting that imams do everything they can to unsightly and suppress homosexuals in their own environments by denying that there are homosexual Muslims at all. Being counted as non-existent does not necessarily feel as more gentle compared to getting a blow to the face. That silence combined with deep social mechanisms works, because gay Muslims don't dare stand up, and will have to send out calls for help anonymously in one of the country's largest newspapers. We've also seen a misunderstood concept of honor being used by a criminal like Rasool, who actually gets the credit to settle that you're so tolerant in society. It shows some of the paradoxes in this debate. The Church's ability to do the same is greatly reduced by strong external and internal pressure. Halfhearted opinions from minority organisations on this issue do little to help. I think it was paradoxical last year when the debate broke down, that not one of the Muslim religious leaders engaged in the debate focused on the people who were subjected to violence, but were all the more concerned about taking the victim's role and feeling – almost like a reflex – shocked. Just as during the caricature battle, there were also a lot of people who were very concerned about suffocating, and I would say understand in their hearts, and use the word «dialogue» in almost every other sentence. But part of the so-called dialogue is for many to give in to key issues, and it is not dialogue, but kneel-kneading for forces that benefit human rights violations, discrimination against women and homophobia. I hope that the moderate forces that we have seen speak up in recent times will also arrive. But these need outside support and pressure. Different forms of what I'll almost call human-sewing Neanderthal cultures, lay the ground for prejudices against women and parallel homosexuals. These are regarded in the immigrant communities almost not as proper men, with a small reservation for those who, during the sexual act with other men in secret, take the so-called active role, as Mr. Unni Wikan has pointed out. I'm not going to define what Wikan puts in the difference between active and passive, except that by such thinking it is assumed that the man is the active party, while the woman is considered the passive. I expect most people have learned so much about the bee and the flower that they can think about the rest themselves, and understand how this is applied to men who then play a role as per. definition is regarded as female, i.e. Subordinated. In many ways, the debate we have now lies ten years back, compared with the debate that has been held elsewhere in public space. This debate, and not least the confrontation with people with prejudices, has led us to a partnership law, the majority of Norway's population are now positive, and we may also have a common marriage law passed within the next major elections. But it has not come about by itself, and it is also the background that I have previously confronted some Muslim leaders with their indifference and silence. I would say that it is the failure of the Norwegian authorities against people who are subjected to gross human rights violations, which gives rise to speculation, when some vis-à-vis Muslim communities are not at all close to adopting the same clear attitude that has been adopted against, for example. people who have in their hands encouraged human rights violations, football runners who seem to kick away respect for the individual with the ball, or school owners who launch anti- bullying campaigns involving some groups, but not all. Changing the gender ideology of other cultures is more challenging, and of course it's difficult to give a perfect solution. But now that we can start talking about the challenges, is a small but important step, as long as it doesn't. I am pleased that the Government has signalled changes in criminal law and is seeking to assist the individual who is experiencing discrimination, better. The council meeting on behalf of the Government here today is a lone swallow that has shown attention and interest in doing something. Without any reduction for that commitment, this interpellation was in due course assigned to Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, for the reason that he is primarily responsible in the Government for the means to improve the situation of those concerned. The challenge is, of course, the integration of those around homosexual Muslim women and men who are subjected to assault, coercive measures and persecution. But I'm glad that the council meeting here today actually meets, and that she probably will answer some of the questions as well. When discussing coercive measures, I am glad to see that many have come to realize that it is also a widely used tool for – what to say – re-training gay Muslims. This is one of many issues in which this interpellation is about to become invisible in the debate, and therefore also in the actions to be taken. I also see in today's newspaper that the new Foreign Affairs Act seems to be being postponed again. It'll give you a little bit of time for the meeting council to focus on the women and men who see themselves having to write anonymous chronicles to catch our attention for a while. To clarify some of the things I am asking about, I therefore ask the Council of State to answer and comment on some of the questions contained in my main question. What can we expect from the new law on foreigners in order to improve the situation of homosexuals with Muslim cultural background? Does the Council of State consider that the current integration policy sufficiently addresses this issue? And: Can the Council of State assure us that both she – now it has become so popular that you respond on behalf of each other in the Government, at least it was yesterday – and other members of the government do not use a different approach to Muslim environments than to others, and that we can expect an equally hard line, not least in public, as one has seen from the meeting council and from, for example, the Council of State. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, when you meet with those with whom you're going to have a dialogue – and who you support because you're afraid of what the reaction is, where someone takes the victim role that shouldn't take it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e455	I want to thank the representative André Oktay Dahl – although he would not like to thank me today, I still want to do so, because this debate is important, and it is commendable that several political parties in this Chamber are engaged in important issues dealing with the rights of homosexuals. We have today, and that also showed the representative André Oktay Dahl's contributions very clearly, some major challenges that we still have to address. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that, in the homo-fighting that is still going on, we have to try to get to a cross-political front against the discrimination we experience from different religious environments. This government has a general desire to make Norway more inclusive and diverse. Everyone, regardless of belief, ethnic background and sexual orientation, should be able to participate in our society on equal terms and according to their own assumptions. Too many young homosexuals and lesbians, regardless of background, we know that it's hard to live openly. It is well documented that as a society we have not succeeded enough in improving the living conditions of homosexuals and lesbians in general. Fortunately, progress is moving in the right direction, but we must recognise that for gay and lesbians with non-Western backgrounds in general, and gay and lesbian with Muslim backgrounds in particular, many challenges remain. André Oktay Dahl's interpellation is based on gay Muslims, and he mentions Norwegian Pakistani as an example of a group where it is particularly difficult to live openly as a homophile. However, I believe that the issue he raises is not unique to Muslims, but that this is a problem which also concerns other ethnic minorities, as well as ethnic Norwegians with different religious affiliations. The government is doing a lot to improve living conditions for gay and lesbians in general. It is important that these measures have a device that allows them to also hit gay and lesbians with a non-Western background. The work on common marriage law is well under way. There is no real reason why marriage law should make a difference between people on the basis of sexual orientation. A common marriage law will send a clear signal that tolerance and respect go beyond sexual orientation, ethnic background and belief. We have increased support both for the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation – LLH – and for the magazine Blikk. Both LLH and Blikk make an effort that also concerns gay and lesbians with a minority cultural background. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality will organise a milestone conference to summarise the status of work on gay and lesbian rights, in cooperation with relevant organisations. Here, too, measures aimed at homosexuals and lesbians with a non-Western background will be discussed in particular. The power of lesbians and gays sums up at the top of 12 million. kr in year. This effort should also benefit gay and lesbian immigrants. We are in the process of setting up a legislative committee to investigate an overall law against discrimination. The protection of homofiles against discrimination is currently limited to the labour market and to the housing sector. The aim is to bring together the protection against discrimination into one law, in order to achieve more comprehensive legislation. Protection against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is included in the mandate of the sample. It is currently working on changes to the Staff Act that will help to increase the punishment of criminal acts that have a background to other people’s sexual orientation. This is a result of the news of gay and lesbian living conditions and quality of life, as the government, Stoltenberg I, presented. The police are in the process of getting a better record of so-called hate crime where sexual orientation has been a motivation. The gender equality and discrimination ombudsman has been involved in this work. In addition to law enforcement, the Ombudsman must prevent discrimination and promote changes in attitudes. The Ombudsman is in a unique position to address challenges at the intersection of different grounds of discrimination. The Ombudsman works long-term to gain better contact with and trust among gay Muslims. In September 2006, the Ombudsman conducted an open professional forum on ‘Homophile and hate crime — what do we know and what do we do?’. The Ombudsman will put this theme on the agenda for future meetings of the Council of Ministers of the Creeding and Living Communities. I would like to remind you that we also have our own history, where not least the Church and Christian organizations have had a very negative view of gay life. The changes have occurred primarily because we have had open Christian homosexuals who have dared to engage in this fight. I would like to invite the Open Church Group to a dialogue on work against discrimination against homosexuals in religious communities. Here we have a lot of competence together. I got a concrete challenge from the representative André Oktay Dahl as to whether we want to have a equally tough fight against religious leaders in our religious communities that we have had against our political parties who have been opponents of a gay community. I can answer a very clear yes to that. Not having zero tolerance for homofiles being discriminated against because you become happy with a person of the same sex, it has to end in our society. Norwegian law has to be followed. Therefore, it is important that we engage in a close dialogue with religious leaders and say that such practices and such treatment of our youth are not acceptable. I will of course be equally aggressive – to use such an expression – in the fight against political parties, if it would be necessary again to go to the barricades to talk about lesbians and homosexuals in our society having a natural and equivalent place in all areas. I want to say that on this issue, it may not necessarily be about how many million dollars we are able to increase the allocations to gay organizations, but it's about how, as a society, we teach our children from they're small, so they don't grow up with an attitude that homophilis are sinful. Therefore, it is also important that this should be on the agenda in kindergarten, in school, in voluntary teams and in organisations. It is important that we, as political leaders, be called Dagfinn Høybråten or whether you are imam, have to have zero tolerance to discriminate. I'm not saying that's what the Christian People's Party is doing, but what I'm saying is that we have to put in place a complete acceptance that requires that you get equivalent conditions in our society. So to another concrete challenge that concerns what we can actually do in the more concrete integration policy. It is such that the Government is now working with the Introduction Act, which gives immigrants the right and/or obligation to training in Norwegian and social knowledge. The syllabus of this training provides that, inter alia: family patterns, gender roles and forms of life shall be addressed. I want to take an initiative so that we ensure that the Norwegian view of gay life is also addressed in this context. Family protection should be able to play an active role in the conflicts that arise when, for example: Gay and lesbian youths face their own family. I want to assess whether one of the offices in the big cities will have the resources to develop specific skills in this field. It could include families with different religious reasons for not accepting gay and lesbian life. Finally, I would like to point out that we want to develop information material on gay life, so that we reach the target audience, which is youth, in a better way than we have done to this day. One of the challenges we're facing is that this group has no open figures. Talking on behalf of someone never yields as good results as when those who experience this on the body themselves suggest good action. I have over time tried to engage in dialogue with especially young homosexuals and lesbian Muslims, and I hope that during the course of the year we will have a meeting with a group that can advise us on how to proceed in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e501	I'm going to take an example of the lack of interest not primarily from the ministry, but from public Norway, when it comes to finding out how these guys and girls are doing. When a scientist tried to find someone who would stand up in the NRK, this scientist did not find anyone. It was totally impossible. For me it took ten minutes to find some of these guys online. Then it's not primarily about it being so difficult, it's also about the willingness to take something seriously. It's a vision that I know the council shares. I expect the Council of State to bring the rest of the government and send out signals that it is also about attitudes and interest, not just that it is so very difficult. So it took me ten minutes. In the case of cross-political work, the Council of State has previously given me and the Right an extended hand. I intend to take advantage of this. I appreciate that. When it comes to zero tolerance, I'm not at all in doubt that the Council of State stands for it. I'm going to honestly admit that in the meantime I get freezes from the state council – negative sometimes, but also positive when Karita Bekkemelm is at its very toughest against some environments. It happens that it heats far into a liberal conservative right-soul. I will be attending a debate later today where I will meet representatives from certain immigrant communities who say that cultural differences have to be accepted. I feel that some people in this debate are flying a false flag. As soon as criticism comes, they say this is an attack on Islam and religion. No, that's not it. It is an attack that certain environments do not at all accept fundamental human rights. What I'm going to say in that debate if this kind of statement reflects itself, and I feel like I have the Council of State with me, is that here in Norway we have a humanist society that follows human rights, even when it comes to who you're happy with. And if you don't get rid of it, you're actually not just going to find something else to do, but maybe go somewhere else. I think that's a very good attitude, and it has nothing to do with racism. Because it's not to be liberal and to have dialogue to accept that people think that human rights violations are okay. Finally, I just want to challenge the Council of State a little on a question that she was not so specific about. Will the Council of State say that attitudes towards homosexuals among people with migrant backgrounds in Norway have improved, become more liberal to the same extent as in society for the past 30 years? If so, in what ways? If no, how does the Council of State see more concretely – some of the introduction programme mentioned – that integration needs to be changed in order to transform attitudes of people who prefer to be here? If yes or no, I ask for answers on how attitudes can change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e516	First of all, I want to say that I very much agree with the interpellant that this is about having respect for fundamental human rights. That's why in many ways it's a little absurd that we still have to have a so-called gay fight in Norway in 2007. But it's actually how we still have big challenges, which the interpellant gave a very good picture of in his post. I also think that there is reason to remember that it is still the case in Norway today that many young people are trying to take their own lives because you are being bullied, you are being harassed, and you cannot live out the person you really are. That should worry a lot. It should worry everyone who is concerned about closeness and that everyone should have the opportunity to live a full and good life. When the representative asks what we know about the development of Muslim environments in terms of acceptance for homophilis, I think no one in this room can give a fascist answer to what that picture is like. With regard to the whole integration debate and the challenges we face in many fields, such as forced marriage and circumcision, we see that we are struggling a little to reach our new countrymen with information on Norwegian laws and regulations. That's why it's important that we have a policy that allows us to achieve information about Norwegian laws and regulations. We believe it is important that we focus on these issues in our introduction programme. It is important that we keep these issues in focus when we present action plans on coerciveness, so that this issue is also highlighted there. It is also important that our schoolwork begins to focus much more on it. Then it's also important that we, regardless of the political colour, use the opportunities we have to put this on the agenda when we meet different religious leaders. We see the change that has occurred in the Norwegian Church, among others. in the appointment of the new bishop now just and the clear change in the view of homophilis expressed by this bishop. It shows one thing: it's useful to stand for a political line where one should not accept that homophiles are discriminated against. If we reach a cross-political agreement in this room, where all the parties join together, I am absolutely convinced that we are going to be able to reach our new countrymen in a good way, and that many young lesbians and homosexuals in the future will live a completely different life than they are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e530	For almost a year now there has been a debate on the living conditions of homosexuals with a non-Western background. I want to praise the Workers' Party's network for gay and lesbians, because it was those who kicked off the debate and started a very good public debate, who through the summer and autumn have engaged politicians like Dahl, researchers, religious leaders, anonymous homophilic Muslims and others. It was and is a very sorely intrusive debate on a topic that has been faced for too long with silence both by the Norwegian public and, not least, by the people concerned themselves, and there are many good reasons for that. I believe that the Council of State is very right in saying that many homosexuals and lesbians, regardless of cultural and religious backgrounds, have a difficult life and live in hiding in fear of social sanctions, and that therefore it must be an obvious goal to increase equality in Norwegian society in general. The more formal equality we create, the more equal treatment we create, and the better living conditions follow with it. There is no doubt that today's government is very well going on. I don't want to turn this matter into party politics, but it has to be mentioned, because it's actually relevant to what we're discussing. It's been done more in this area, and it's been granted more money for the one year we've been in government, than it's been done in the last ten years. Homophiles in Norway are still lacking basic opportunities, such as: to enter into marriage or to be assessed as adoption candidates, as opposed to a country such as the United Kingdom. Spain and South Africa. Only the Workers' Party and SV have unequivocally supported the government's announced proposal for a common marriage law. The other parties will not give their immediate support to this. What kind of signals are they sending? Well, one sends a signal that Norwegian society should not automatically treat the same thing. How can a large society that itself discriminates have credibility in its condemnation of discrimination? I would also like to commend the representative Dahl for addressing the debate, and I believe that he does not mean that we should limit this issue to just some groups with some religious backgrounds. We see that there are common features that apply to all immigrants, with different backgrounds and different religious ties. Although the debate here at home has been mostly about the Muslims, it's not that it's just the Muslims that are struggling. The only research we have on the life situation of homosexuals with a non-Western background warns against looking blindly at religion as an explanation factor. Nor does it provide evidence to claim that homosexual Muslims have a significantly worse or more difficult situation than homosexual immigrants with other religious backgrounds, for example. Buddhists or Hindus. All these groups experience a need to balance expectations of Norwegian society, family expectations and demands. They experience, compared with Norwegian homosexuals, a stronger pressure to marry heterophile, they have more frequent mental problems, we see more frequent suicide attempts, and a lot of people live in hiding. Here at home we talk about homophilia as something people are. A lot of other places in the world, homophilis is understood to be something you do, and not something you are. Many immigrants in Norway have their background in a culture where the understanding is that homophilis are just acts and not a feature of personality. Islam and Muslims are often promoted, as mentioned, but it is important to remember that the vast majority of religions in the world are used to condemn the homophilic way of life of groups who want it, even in our own state church. Better living conditions for homosexuals and lesbians are very closely linked to the overall level of equality in society, and for immigrants in particular, the overall integration policy is crucial. Why is it that we find very few gay Muslim men who will stand up, as the representative Dahl pointed out, but no lesbians? Well, when homophilis is discussed in religion, it's men. The woman is not mentioned, because the woman is invisible. There is a reason that in Norway there was a ban on homophilis for men, but not for women. It wasn't because it was okay for women to be gay, and that they could practice it as much as they wanted. No, it was because the woman was invisible and overlooked. Here in Norway, the women’s struggle and the general gender equality struggle have changed on this, but in many other countries, lesbians are twice discriminated against – because they are women, and because they are gay. The requirement of the representative Dahl to be tougher against the Muslims, and the imams in particular, is a reasonable and necessary requirement, but there is no solution to the situation of those concerned. Islam has also become a Norwegian religion, and religious dogmas must always be challenged. We can never be united with the condemnation of religious leaders. We need to back up on the critical voices we already have, for example. those who write about homosexuality and immigration, and those who work on it. Now my time is running out. I just want to say that it is also necessary to challenge minority politicians. It has a much greater effect that they stand up to the wrong that is being committed, than that I and the representative Dahl do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e567	I have no doubt that it is tough, difficult and problematic to stand up as a homophile when you have a Muslim background. The question is whether standing up is a special problem in Muslim environments. I think no matter what environment you're in, it's hard to stand up as a homophile. The gay friends I have, at least say it's a difficult process for many. I think it'll be just as difficult to get out of the closet in many ethnic Norwegian environments, to call it that, as it is in Muslim environments. Then I think about e.g. a Western Christian environment and some places in Building Norway. The interpellant mentioned machinated football environments. I don't think it would be so good to get out of the closet if you, for example. was a Christian People's Party politician. So that's not how Muslim environments are in a special position. I don't think we can decide here in Stortinget that it should be easy to be Muslim homse. But I feel convinced that the immigration policy of the Progress Party will have a positive impact on this area as well. We have said many times that Norwegian immigration policy has a wrong approach. The pluralities here in the hall have had as a perspective that we should adapt to each other and accept the peculiarities of Islam. The Progress Party believes that instead Muslims and other immigrants into Norway should adapt to Norwegian culture and society and to Western values such as freedom, equality, tolerance, democracy, freedom of expression, etc. This would clearly have a positive impact on both women who are oppressed in these environments per year. today, and the homosexuals, who are obviously also oppressed in these environments. On the part of the Party of Advancement, unlike some other parties, we have been clear that there are attitudes and cultures in parts of Islam that we do not like – we stress that there are parts of the environment, but that there are also parts that adapt well. So in parts of Islam, it's old-fashioned and sometimes medieval views of both women and homosexuals. We believe that the solution then lies in making demands on immigrants, while at the same time the immigrant communities have to deal with the ugly attitudes to homosexuals that exist. In the last edition of the magazine ‘untrop’ there is a portrait interview with the representative André Oktay Dahl, and it starts as follows: ‘André Oktay Dahl gave up the dream of becoming a musician in favor of irritating people full-time.’ Now I'm not annoyed that André Oktay Dahl is taking up this interpellation, but I'm frustrated by the Right Party, which, when the Advance Party points out the negative features of parts of Islam, are the first to criticize us, while in this debate they now go as far as to call the attitudes that exist in some Muslim environments, Neanderthal. As far as I know, no party politicians have gone so far. We've done well with the Middle Ages.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e585	I do not want to use this debate to respond to the previous article in its entirety, but there are some things that I have to comment on, firstly the claim that the immigration policy of the Progress Party would have meaning in this area. Yes, it would have been in one area: There would have been fewer Muslim homophiles in Norway if the policies of the Progress Party had been implemented, but I don't think they would have had it better where they had been. The second is the question of whether the integration policy of the Progress Party would improve for Muslim homophiles in Norway. It is very difficult to answer, because it is extremely difficult to find out what is the integration policy of the Progress Party, because the Progress Party always talks about immigration policy and not about integration policy. When you start discussing integration policy, it's just about making demands – it's quite a broad political consensus. But what perhaps not the representative of the Progress Party has brought with it is that there is a difference of substance in making demands, but at the same time respect that people are different and have different backgrounds, for example. different religious beliefs, and that Norway is already a society made up of people with different backgrounds, and having a respect for it on the one hand and on the other hand believing that making demands would mean that just everyone who comes to Norway is like us, it will go very well. To put it that way: when one discusses this, I really hope not that Muslim Norway adapts to the values of the Advance Party in this area. In that case, we won't have come much further than where we are now. When you talk about the crimes against gay Muslims in Norway, I'm very afraid that we're too easily landing to use Islam as an explanation factor. I think there are a lot of other explanation factors that are probably more prominent. To put it this way: I think that very many of those who commit violence against young homosexuals, and those who discriminate against young homosexual Muslims in Norway, may not necessarily be the ones who are the most diligent to go on Friday prayer in the mosque. I also believe that in the political discussion, too often we tend to emphasise the role of imams to a much greater extent than the Muslims themselves actually emphasise it – we also have surveys that tell us – and that in the political environment at all times we point to imams as those to whom we are going to contact, perhaps give them a greater role than they deserve. So I think some of the key here is that one sees this as an integral part of the integration work and the job like that. The Directorate of Inclusion and Diversity shall do so. I know that the interpellant had initially put this interpellant to the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. In many ways it's a little too bad that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is not here today and is taking part in this debate. Because it is vital that the two state councils work together to find solutions in this area. What one then sees is that it will be absolutely necessary to raise this discussion in the different groups themselves, and therefore use this matter also in the work of the IMDi. Not least, it will be absolutely necessary to make young gay Muslims stand up, to be role models, to be part of the projects that are now in the process of inclusion, in order to have examples among immigrants. They've focused a lot on those who take education, the ones who make a career, the ones who have prominent positions in society, and let them be role models. But I think it will also be necessary to have a conscious policy of producing young homophiles as role models in immigration environments and letting them be part of the groups of role models that travel around and that have education and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e598	I would like to thank the interpellant for focusing on the life situation of gay Muslims. I think it is extremely important that we now take this debate that has gone a long way into public space. It is important that we take that debate also here in the storeroom. I fully agree with the Council of State that this applies to all minorities, of course, but it also applies to ethnic Norwegian gays – unfortunately. I have been in the school health service for many years, teaching together and sexuality. I'm quite shaken by what attitudes exist in our schools. That's why I think it's so important that the Council of State says we have to start school, because it's actually young people who are going to make these choices early, and it's young people that it's hard for. Therefore, it is important that we get a change of attitude out in Norwegian school. I am very pleased that the Council of State was so clear on that. I am also very pleased that we have a government and a government council that is concerned about living conditions for lesbians and gays. SV is extremely pleased, I would say – because we worked a lot on this in the last period – that the Government is now setting up a legislative committee to investigate an overall law against discrimination. Homofile’s protection of discrimination is now limited to the labour and housing sectors – completely incomprehensible. The aim of bringing together the protection against discrimination in one law is to achieve more comprehensive legislation. Of course, protection against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation is included in the mandate of the sample. It is absolutely necessary to have an overall legislative framework if we are to improve the protection of discrimination in Norway in several areas. It is also currently working on a change in the penal code that will help to increase the punishment of criminal acts that are based on a different sexual orientation. This is a result of the news of gay and lesbian living conditions and quality of life, as the government, Stoltenberg I, presented. In addition, the police are in the process of getting a better record of so-called hate crime where sexual orientation has been a motivation. In addition, we have made changes to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, and they are now engaged in this work. In addition to law enforcement, the Ombudsman must prevent discrimination and promote changes in attitudes. This Ombudsman is in a unique position to address the challenges at the intersection of different grounds of discrimination. We are also pleased that the Ombudsman is working in the long term to improve contact and trust among homosexual Muslims. In September 2006, the Ombudsman carried out an open professional forum on ‘Homophile and hate crime — What do we know and what do we do?’. The Ombudsman will put this theme on the agenda for future meetings of the Council of Ministers of the Creeding and Living Communities. Then we come into our own history, where not least the Church and Christian organizations have had a very negative view of gay life. The changes here have occurred primarily because one has got open Christian homosexuals who have engaged in this fight. I am happy the Council of State now invites the Open Church Group to a dialogue on the fight against discrimination against homosexuals in religious communities. There's a lot of competence here, because we have so long history of this. So it's very important that we take that competence further. The SV is most pleased in this matter, is what the Government is now doing, by the fact that the work on common marriage law is well under way. There's no reason to have a marriage law that makes a difference to people based on sexual orientation. A common marriage law will send a clear signal that tolerance and respect go beyond sexual orientation, ethnic background and belief. I agree with the interpellant that this is about respect for human rights, and we have to work for a Norway and a society where young people can dry and have the opportunity to live with the one they love, regardless of background, sexual orientation or ethnicity. It's very important that we now get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e617	Interpellant takes on an important and serious theme. Chosen and hate crime against homosexuals both in Norway and abroad, and according to an article in Blink, gays are still being punished with death sentences in seven Muslim countries. In other countries, imprisonment and physical punishment for homosexuals are common. Our goal must be that all homosexuals and lesbians must be able to make their choices in life without experiencing condemnation or power. We have per cent. Today, little research-based knowledge of what it is like to be a minority group while being a lesbian or gay. However, there is reason to believe that the life situation of lesbian and gay immigrants differs from the life situation of immigrants in general, but also from the life situation of Norwegian lesbian women and gay men. In 2003, NOVA carried out a pilot project on the theme lesbian and gay with a migrant background. The project concluded, inter alia: that one should not be blind to religion as an explanation factor for future studies of lifestyle and the quality of life of lesbian and gay immigrants. The pilot study suggests that there is no basis for separating special risk groups between lesbian and gay immigrants after religious affiliation. Negative attitudes to homosexuality in a minority environment are not necessarily religiously motivated. The NOVA study further points to a special challenge for first-generation lesbian and gay immigrants in Norway. They must live their love life on the basis of several conflicting models of homosexuality. A major challenge for lesbian and gay immigrants is to tackle the contradictions between a Western homosexual lifestyle and expectations and demands from the minority environment. This occurs in a situation where the ethnic Norwegian gay community of the individual immigrants can often not be seen to be an alternative to the original family in the same way as for many Norwegian lesbians and gays. The problems associated with this are illustrated by the fact that the majority of NOVA’s informants have chosen to live in secret, and many live out their love life at a good distance from both the lesbian/homophile environment and the minority environment to which they belong. Another finding and recommendation from the NOVA study is that future studies should focus specifically on the immigrant family as a social institution, since good family relationships and a well-functioning family life are of great importance to lesbian and gay immigrants and to their living conditions and quality of life. One important finding is that when lesbian and gay immigrants struggle in relation to the nearest family, these difficulties appear to be more contrasting for them than for Norwegian lesbians and gays. The situation of the informants in this study has many ways of raising awareness of many common features of heterophilic non-Western women and men trying to avoid arranged marriages. Not all informants in this study have a strenuous relationship with the family. One conclusion of this pilot study is that future research should study the family in a perspective of being an important resource for lesbians and homosexuals with a migrant background. While many ethnic Norwegian lesbians and gays are largely left to themselves, the family still seems to be an overarching reference point when lesbians and gays with immigrant backgrounds are going to make their choices and shape their everyday lives. The high value of lesbian and gay immigrants must include: be understood in an immigration perspective. By belonging to two marginalised groups, it is not surprising that the NOVA study indicates that lesbian and gay immigrants are overrepresented with regard to being plagued by mental and suicide attempts. Many lesbian and gay immigrants strive more with their family relationships than others with the same sexual orientation, while the family basically means more to them. Many of them also live hidden and are exposed to power and threats. All these factors increase the risk of mental illness and suicide. This makes mental health an important topic in future research to address lesbian and gay immigrants in their life situation. The Christian People's Party has committed itself in the party program to work to improve their gay lives. The aim of the school and health services must be openness and tolerance through information and retention and concrete measures to help. Resources have already been provided for teaching in schools related to homophilis, the resource book for teachers. The Government of Bondevik II launched the “Gay in the Country” campaign. The campaign focused on homosexuals and lesbians in district municipalities. This campaign may be a model for a holding campaign aimed at the minority environment. I would also like to remind you that the gender equality and discrimination issue has an important role to play in anti-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e641	The centre party is concerned that no one should experience discrimination, regardless of gender, economic and cultural background, religion, ethnicity or, as we are discussing today, lay. I should probably have taken geographical origins, too, after the representative Knudsen's opposition to Western Christians and Building Norway as the stronghold of intolerance. The homofile capability of some parts of the immigrant environment is difficult. Therefore, it is important that their situation be looked at on the agenda, and the representative Oktay Dahl should be praised for focusing on this group. The action against discrimination in general, according to the view of the Centre Party, marks one of the most important value struggles in our society. By law, we can show what values our society uses and counts as acceptable. However, we will not be able to stop all discrimination by law alone. Holdings will always be the basis for how the inhabitants of a community behave to each other. Through the emergence and schooling of child and youth wounds, we form images of what is right and wrong, and we receive the values that will characterize the way we live our lives further. The attitudes of the parent society and the values the school conveys will therefore be decisive to stop all forms of discrimination. The centre party strongly believes that good integration will also reduce prejudice and promote tolerance. The sphere is an important arena to promote integration. Voluntary organisations are different. We believe that the voluntary sector can play a particular important role in promoting integration. It requires voluntary organisations to recruit people from all parts of society. A policy of voluntary sector organisation and good economic conditions for the sector will therefore also be important from an anti-discrimination perspective. The ball must also dare to focus on its gay living conditions in general, including the gay group in the immigrant community. It is a special responsibility for the school to prevent discrimination, and it is important that those who do not receive basic values – as tolerance – through their growth in the world, are passed on to them through the school. The government has come up with a series of measures that are intended to improve living conditions for gays and which will hopefully reduce discrimination against this group. This has been well done by the Council of State. We must admit, however, that we have not come far enough to create tolerance in society in general. This is a work that must continue in the years to come. Both the interpellant and the other participants in the debate have made good sense in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e656	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for raising this issue, and I agree with the Council of State that it may seem a little absurd to have such debates in Norway today. But I think it's important to say that this is not just about the problem that the interpellant has raised. I think this applies to a lot of masculine environments today, sail if we don't admit it. We've had a lot of police officers who've been standing up lately and telling us about what was done in their profession. We know what happens in a number of outlying areas in Norway on a regular Saturday night. I don't think it's easy to be the only lesbian nurse in a small age home in a small community. And others have said that it's not always so easy to be gay and active in the Progress Party. But this also intervenes in a number of other debates. It's under arrest, for example. into the Forced Marriage Debate. From my work with forced marriage, both here in Norway and abroad, I have learned that this also concerns a lot of boys. When you peck a little bit in the history of many of the boys, we find a gay boy who desperately tries to get out of something that the family has decided. And then we're back to one of the things I think was the core points of what the interpellant took up, that's not accepting cultural differences. I think we're going to put the right words on this: we're not going to accept this as cultural differences, because this is actually masculine, oppressive cultures. You have to put words on it for what it is. This is not about our tolerance concepts. In fact, there are some human rights that lie beyond everything, and they are also beyond what is tradition and culture or what it is now. It's about putting the right words on it, because that's when it's possible to fight this. For the left, this has always been one of our main things. I could use the Council of State's words "absurd" in relation to the Trettebergstuen now, which did not have with the Left in its uproar. We were the first party to stand behind all the milestones of Norwegian legislation in this area. To put it that way: The House of the Left was even the first meeting place for gays in Norway, long before such sites were actually allowed. I am not that old, but was born in a country where this was not law according to Norwegian law. It gives us some perspectives as to how fast cultural change can happen, and how fast it is to show them when we dare to. And when we've managed to do as much as we've been able to do in Norway since we changed the law, and with the steps we've taken, we have to have great hope that if we don't call this culture, and if we don't call it religion, but call it oppressive structures that don't take the individual seriously, it's easier to smoke out. I agree that we would very much like to have some more representatives as spokesmen here, but I know what it means to be there, and how much you have to sacrifice to do it. But many have. In Norwegian history, many have sacrificed and used their lives to work for equality, for gay rights and a number of other areas. I very much hope that we find some representatives who can and understand what it means to take that fight and dry to be the spokesperson for this group. Our role is to make it easier. Our role is to take those measures seriously. I think the Council of State had a very correct approach to and a lot of good grips on this which I trust. And at least we in the left have to help out with what we can do with all of the important milestones here. We've done that in the past, and we're going to promise that we're going to do it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e667	I would like to commend André Oktay Dahl from the Right for not only making an interview about this, but also being brave enough to dry up this debate. There are many who have thanked Oktay Dahl today for promoting the interpellation, but I also think he should be thanked for taking a debate that has been difficult for very many to take public, for one of the biggest problems in this debate is that there has been little publicity about the problem. And then I think it's very positive with the answers that the Minister for Equality comes with in relation to the ambitions she has to do something to solve these problems. This with migration, integration and the new gender equality struggle is one of the greatest value debates in modern society. We know that it's like today that people move. People are born in country A, they live in country B, they study in country C, they can find a girlfriend in country D, and then you end up living in country E or F with the one you marry. So the fact that migration and integration are a topic in all European countries is a fact and a reality. And in that debate there are difficult, unpleasant value debates. We have had debates on coercion and circumcision that have been difficult in Norway. We have had debates about women who experience brutal abuse that Norwegian women experienced in Norway 150 years ago, and now we also have a very important minority debate on the rights of the homosexuals in the majority society. But then I would also like to stress that it is very important not to make this a kind of religious problem, because we know that this has been a huge problem in Christian conservative environments, this has been a problem in other minority environments. We know that Catholic Vietnamese who are gay, labor as much as Muslim gay and lesbian, so this is kind of not just an Islamic problem. It is incredibly important, when we talk about the role of Islam in modern society, to mention from a historical perspective that Islam has not had the necessary, modern reform process that is imperative in order to address these value debates in the Islamic context. But the fact that we have Muslim homophiles and lesbians standing up, but standing up anonymously, just confirms how big this problem is. If you have a different skin color, you have a different name than Ola or Kari, and in addition you are gay or lesbian, you have all the double aspects of discrimination in your luggage that make you not only oppressed but also invisible and isolated. We know that very many homosexuals in Norwegian ethnic environments have stood up and are on trains. We've got shift days. We have parties about the inclusive community. But the problem with immigrant youth who are gay or lesbian is that they are not only outlawed by the majority society, but they are also outlawed by their own. We talk a lot about imams and authoritarian leadership in the immigrant communities, but I totally agree with what Bent Höie was into – we give them too much power. The ones we have to try to influence are the parental regeneration in the immigrant environment. Why are we talking so little about them? It's like if, for example, Fatima's gonna have to be coerced. Don't call my mom imam in Oslo. Then she calls an aunt or grandmother in Pakistan: can you find ten current marriage candidates? We're on a summer vacation, and then we're going to evaluate one of them. It could be doctors or lawyers. The imam is only involved afterwards, in the wedding ceremony. But it's very important to get the imams to say the right things and influence them too, because imams are perceived as trendmakers for what important community people should think. But we must not forget the most important people between the generation of young people and the imams, namely the parents. That's why I think it's very important to get teachers, healthcare, the PP service, the socionomists – everyone in contact with minority youth – to take this debate and catch up with these problems when they have a suspicion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e680	The Council of State was concerned that it is impossible to give a fascist response to attitudes. I agree that it is difficult to arrive at. At the same time, we have a variety of statistical methods and state whites measuring everything from the interest in different brands of dorolls to the attitudes towards human rights, so I think maybe you should look at the possibility of polling in selected groups to actually get a better overview. Common marriage law was taken up by several people. Now I personally belong to those who think that it should be done, but I don't think you should exaggerate the importance of a common marriage law on the question I am travelling here today. Otherwise, I also agree with everyone who has mentioned that we should not exaggerate the importance of imams in isolation. It has to be seen in a context. Ulf Erik Knudsen from the Progress Party admits today that it is tough to stand up. To put it like that, there's a step on the way, because it's actually the way the Progress Party policy is, among other things. contributes to the difficulty of dealing with homosexuals. I have also noticed the deafening silence of the Advance Party when this has been debated. In a radio debate with Ulf Erik Knudsen earlier, I got an answer to the question of why, that there has been nothing about it in the paper. Then I have to say that there is also an interesting way to pursue politics. I think that might be an even simpler explanation of that, that there's not exactly any select magnet, simply because many so-called ethnic North people share the view of the immigrant community on gay and gay rights. So to put it this way: what characterizes the Progress Party, and that makes the Right different from the Advance Party, is that the Advance Party demands, but only to some. What came from the Progress Party here today would have had a bunch of credibility if the party at least took a distance from discrimination against homophilis among the people most, those without a migrant background. When you get to this with Neanderthal macho attitudes, I know up to several people who have it, and who put the ballot of the Advance Party in the ballot box, among other things. on the grounds that they share the views of some imams in relation to the harassment of homosexuals. That's how the interests intersect. I think the contributions of the Christian People's Party today show that there has been a good development in the Christian People's Party. I think that's reason to say, because the Christian People's Party today shouldn't keep the dark man's stamp that they've had in the past – although of course you can correct on some points. Otherwise, I just need to correct a fact-finding in terms of the number of countries that have been penalised or systematically harassing homosexuals. It's not just seven, it's close to thirty – it shows Amnesty's report of 2003. Finally, I want to warn you about something we can quickly do, which is to make people poorer. We're making gay immigrants poor. We're making homofiles poor in general. It's like talking about alcohol abuse, mental health and suicide rates. It's a danger. If we just focus on that, I really don't understand why someone is going to come out. Then it seems like it's a living hell to be also open gay. To put it that way: there are a couple of representatives here today who have shown that we have it relatively well. And finally, relative to including each other: a challenge is also that the home environment does not include immigrants. Some of the least inclusive environments that exist are the home environments, which are so ‘bitchy’ to each other that can be thought of. So there's also a challenge in relation to the organizations and the individual ethnic gay.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e699	If a very brief is to sum up this debate, I would say that the most important thing is that all parties from this pulpit have shown an understanding of what homophilis is, and how important it is that we now have zero tolerance for allowing discrimination against homosexuals to continue. I feel that the government has received a very broad support for many of the measures that we put forward. I can assure you that, of course, there is close cooperation between me and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in this field, while the Minister of Justice is also very strongly involved in the pursuit of offensive homopolitics. So I just want to end by saying to the representative Dahl now said about the poorification of gays, that if there's such a picture that gets to party, it's precisely because we don't have enough knowledge of gays, and because many gays can't live a full life in all our municipalities. Many have actually been banished and have had to flee to our big cities because there has been no room for them in our small towns. That's why it's important to show that the image of what homofiles are is complex. It's as complex, of course, as the picture on heterofiles. Then I want to say that there are some debates you – when you start them – should feel completely unnecessary. This is actually such a debate, in which I thought: is it necessary that we take such a debate? But it is. This debate has shown that it is possible to move the political parties in Norway. I fully agree with the representative Dahl that perhaps the most important thing was the post we heard from the Christian People's Party here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e710	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e724	As rapporteur, I would first like to draw attention to the fact that the Committee delivers a divided opinion on this matter. I assume that the opposition parties, which otherwise form a majority of the committee, will explain their position. I would therefore primarily like to explain my views to the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre. Let me first say that research and knowledge acquisition generally mean a lot to the quality of treatment provision. In particular, developments in ICT provide new and fantastic opportunities to improve patient treatment — both directly in treatment and indirectly by facilitating better research, such as: through access to accurate and secure information in patient registries. It is important that the Storting facilitates the use of these options, for the benefit of patients, while balancing the need for research against the protection of privacy. Patients must be confident that sensitive information is safely processed and stored in a confidential manner to healthcare professionals. With the developments that are taking place today in ICT, I believe that we have the opportunity to use electronic registers as a tool for improving patient treatment, while respecting privacy. The reason why we have different forms of registers is to be able to choose the form of the register which ensures the best possible privacy for the data subject at all times, while at the same time respecting the purpose of the register. Therefore, not all registers need to be person-identifiable, nor do all registers have to be pseudonymous, since for some registers it is sufficient that they are deidentified to fulfil the purpose of the register. The best register form for each registry must be determined in concrete terms. And it is not right to establish one form of register for all health records, either in terms of research or in terms of privacy considerations. In order to assess this in concrete terms, one has to be clear as to what the purpose of the individual register is. National health registers enable the health status of the population to be described, the causes of disease to be identified, the effectiveness of treatment measures to be measured and the quality of health care to be assessed. Later today, Odelstinget will take a decision on the Norwegian patient register, which I believe is one of the most important health policy issues to be addressed during this large-scale period. I have strong faith that such a register will contribute to information that can improve patient treatment – and even save lives. Of course, I agree with the proposers that it is essential that the health service has confidence in the population. It is therefore important to stress that one does not know that information has gone astray, either from any of the Norwegian personally identifiable health records or from any other Nordic country, and that technical and organisational barriers of the highest quality are introduced in order to avoid abuse. However, encrypted personal identification is not in itself sufficient to safeguard privacy. Therefore, a comprehensive legal, regulatory and administrative framework has been developed to ensure privacy in databases containing both birth numbers and health information. Encryption helps to strengthen privacy in databases with a lot of information for each patient. Adequate protection of privacy requires that encryption is not used alone but in combination with other privacy promotion measures. Therefore, the Working Party, SV and the Center Party do not consider it appropriate for the Government to make specific proposals to store register information with encrypted identity. I am humble that there will always be a minimum of uncertainty associated with electronic records as well as any other form of storing sensitive information, both in writing and in electronic form. We're going to take that seriously. At the same time, electronic patient registers represent in many ways a major improvement in safety if we see it in relation to the storage of written material. ICT gives us new challenges, but also new opportunities – also to ensure privacy. It has been said that the debate on external or internal encryption is about whether the registers should have one or two locks. That's a good picture, but the picture is getting closer to reality if we say that the debate is about whether we should have, for example. 27 or 28 locks. Registers like Norwegian patient registry are already among the safest records in the world. Regardless of the debate on external or internal encryption, I believe that the registers are bound by very strict security procedures, and that it is important to communicate, so that as politicians we do not contribute to spreading undue uncertainty about these registers. I understand that the term ‘personally identifiable register’ may be misleading. Researchers are not given birth numbers other than after authorisation by the Data Protection Authority and others. If the information in the health records is abused or compromised, this will be punished. Therefore, good information on the long range of security measures taken to protect such information is important. I ask questions about whether it will be the right resource use to make the encryptions externally, when at the same time we have other and significantly greater challenges to safeguard privacy, for example. in relation to the written patient records in the hospitals. Moreover, external encryption does not represent exclusively a safety improvement. Remote encryption also poses new security risks. One institution to encrypt and the other institution to use the information must transfer information between themselves via the Internet, which may represent a security risk. In addition, I would like to point out that if external encryption requires regular outsourcing of the mission, so that significantly more people will work on the information in the long term, it will probably weaken the confidence and legitimacy of the population in person-identifiable records. In addition, an additional service will necessarily involve an additional source of error in the research, although person-identifiable external encryption registers can initially serve research purposes in the same way as person-identifiable internal encryption registers. I therefore take up the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, and ask the Stortinget to make a decision accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e764	The representative, Dag Ole Tegen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e767	This is a matter that the Left has chosen to promote for Stortinget. It also comes up in Odelstinget later today, when we're going to treat Ot.prp. No 49 for 2005-2006, amending the Health Registry Act. I'm going to use this post to convey our vision. It is also parallel to the position we have taken in relation to the Health Register Act, which, as I said, we are going to deal with later today. We have through the treatment of Ot.prp. No 49, e.g. consultations held in the Health and Care Committee were just about the type of safety we should have when dealing with health records. What is interesting is that it is not a single hearing body that has said that a register is 100 pst. Sure, because it can't be either. We see that when it comes to data breach, it actually happens where you assume you have the safest systems in the world, as in NASA and other institutions, that have actually broken into their systems. There's one thing we have to take over, and that's that it's not always the law-abiding institutions that are related to using computer technology that's the most advanced. One thing that we're also going to have to be clear to ourselves at any time is that things that can be abused at any time, even could be abused. I have no faith that this is a problem that we will face in the short term. I think we have good systems per. Today, which can capture the most, and which meets this whole room, that we want to have good health records. We need to interact in research and privacy, and not least have faith in the registers that we are going to have. But what do we know about the future? A register is not something that will necessarily have the same form for all eternity. We also know that situations other than per are in the long term. Today, where information that can be contained in various forms of registers can be misused. We are also looking at more and more areas of society that monitoring comes into the picture. I believe that the most important thing we have to take on board is that health information is one of the most sensitive for the country's citizens. This is information that you are very concerned about, because it is a major abuse potential related to health information that can get in the wrong hands. It's not like this is just about computer technology. We already have major challenges today in relation to patient records that lie and float – I fully agree with the case rapporteur, who pointed it out – by the fact that one has accidentally dropped archives, among other things. containing very sensitive information. So we have a long way to go. That's why it's important that we not just bet on one field, but that we see the whole chain together. There is, of course, a work related to, among other things: Electronic journals, and then it's quite natural that you go into an intranet system, so that it's not a system that stays open to everyone, but that you have a coding. I also believe that the people's confidence in the registers that we create is crucial for the correctness of the content and extent of the information that we get in the registers, and for people actually making up and providing information. If that trust is not maintained, there is also a danger that these registers may become incomplete, and that is the last thing we need, because using incomplete records in research may actually be a problem versus that we would rather have a little more certainty in the picture. Then the case rapporteur was also in on external versus internal encryption, and it was about having one or two locks on the door – no, that's probably a little more than that. And hopefully you'll be able to do a little bit more than just have two locks on the door. What's going on is being able to have the extra security. It makes no sense if you use the argument that it is a question of having one or two locks on the door and you think that a lock is enough. Yeah, but what if the population thinks it's not enough, and that just because you know that the same body that's going to use this, it's also the one that's encrypting this, even though it is. is made by a separate office or department of the Norwegian Patient Register? Then there is an extra security to have this done externally. And then, quite correctly, the rapporteur also points out what will happen when the flow of information is going to go between these levels. Yes, but that information stream is encrypted. That's exactly what's meant here, so you have to have the extra security. The Party considers that health information is important. We also want to point out that what is just for research is particularly important. That's why, at least from our side, we're trying to find some kind of an intermediate solution to this. And I'm 100 pst. ensure that everyone in this room wants both strong privacy and good research. There's no contradiction in that. The big contradiction lies in how we're going to store the information. And then it's important, at least for the Progress Party, to have this extra lock on the door, which the case rapporteur was at. It could give an increased confidence in the population to take safety more seriously — it can never be 100 pst. Therefore, the party behind the suspension is in favour of the creation of new non-consent health records. It's obvious that here we have to distinguish between what's consent-based and what's not consent-based. Records shall be stored with encrypted identity and encryption shall be carried out by an external independent body. This is important to get in place. It brings me to the matter to be dealt with in Odelstinget. I think I want to signal already now that these two things are closely related. We also support the setting of Ot.prp. No 49, which assumes that there should be an external encryption authority. It's not because we want to have the research, but because we want to have the little extra security, which could help fewer people to be negative to – skeptical to – the information that is stored about them, without being told their opinion. We believe that this can lead to a better system, a better register – and that the confidence in it in the population is thus also improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e795	The chairperson of the Committee is quite obviously right in saying that there is one and the same thing – or, more simply, two pages of one and the same case – we are discussing, during this case number, respectively, in the main proceedings and in the proceedings of Ot.prp. No 49 for 2005-2006 at the forthcoming meeting. The difference is that the Left’s proposals are of a general nature and concern the future policy on the establishment of new health registers, while Ot.prp. No 49 is a concrete proposal for a specific register. The chairperson of the Committee is also entitled to see that there is an interesting coincidence of constellations in the two cases, the majority of which are composed of the four opposition parties being united on one point of view, while the three governmental parties are united on another point of view. Let me point out – before I go into the substance of the matter – that I am a little surprised that the government parties have wanted to fight on this matter. It would have been very desirable, in my opinion, if the legislator had agreed with itself on such a fundamental issue as the balancing of data protection considerations against the needs of research and administration for data access. It would have strengthened the matter if there had been a unanimous increase that had emphasized the privacy concerns as much as it is possible to emphasise it, while accepting patient records without consent. In Bergen's Official Journal of 27 January, there is an interesting report of a lecture by Professor Jon Bing on the possibilities of technology. Jon Bing is perhaps our most distinguished researcher in this field, and he concludes his review, according to Bergen's Official Journal, as follows: «We prioritise progress rather than anonymity and privacy. The new possibilities seem to be selected, even if they violate privacy.’ I assume that Jon Bing is right in saying that there is a trend in legislation – not specifically in the area of health legislation, but in general and everywhere in legislation – that access to new technology and the ability to store information pushes forward with its own weight of ever-new openings and ever-increasing access to infringing privacy. I don't know if Bing has coverage to use such a strong word as ‘infringement’, but the emphasis on the interests against each other tends at least to be in the disfavor of privacy all the time. It is true, as several speakers have pointed out, that health information is one of the most delicate available. It doesn't take much imagination to figure it out. Opinion studies are also available that are almost overwhelmingly unambiguous: it is a general perception in the Norwegian population that health information is sought to be protected as much as possible. The basis for this is a very long cultural tradition: from the very beginning, the history of play in our part of the world has been based not only on a silent, but an explicit premise, namely the obligation of secrecy, that the information obtained in the medical and patient contact should not be passed on to outsiders. That is the condition that patients can have confidence in their doctor. We will have a week to hold a new debate in this room on the issues related to patient records and their handling. Let me just say in that context that I hope that I heard errors when I heard the case rapporteur argue about the same way that a professor of medicine did in the hearing of the committee on Ot.prp. No 49, i.e.: Pust, pust, a health record is a sausage during the slaughter period as long as patient records flow freely. It's a way of reasoning that I'm going to strongly warn against. That there is a lack of safeguards and protection of privacy in one place in the system cannot, of course, be an argument for adding the list lower in terms of the requirements to be entered in a new law. At my discretion, the logic must be to the contrary, that there is an argument that the list should be placed as high as possible. Now it's a problem that in these matters it's filled with complicated conceptual usage and lots of foreign words. It is very difficult, obviously also for the experts who were consulted by the Committee, to keep abreast of the use of concepts in this context. In the committee setting, the minority, the three government parties, write that they ‘points out that a person-identifiable register with external encryption is not the same as a pseudonymous register’. I am respectfully unable to report what you mean by that point. Because if you look at what the government itself has written in Ot.prp. No 49, there's a definition of pseudonymous health records. It sounds like this: ‘Pseudonym health records are registers in which the directly identifiable characteristics are encrypted or otherwise hidden, but where the information is nevertheless individualised in such a way that it is possible to follow a person without disclosure of the identity.’ [[usually birth number]] If that definition is comprehensive, the minority note in this setting is directly misleading. Because what you obviously think in this context is not a pseudonymous register, but an anonymous register, and there are two different things. The consensus between the majority and the minority in the Committee is that in the case of future patient information registers, it is necessary to consider each proposal for the creation of new registers separately. The Left's proposal, which has been transformed into a part of the Committee and made considerably more precise at my discretion, is not intended to standardise all registers for the future. It aims to impose a presumption, to set a threshold, which should be there when allowing access to create new registers. In the long run, I perceive the discussion in the committee and what has been written into both settings, so that there is consensus between the majority and the minority on one thing, namely that external encryption provides even a little more of the protection of privacy than internal encryption does. You might disagree about how big a difference is, but there's a discussion about a degree difference. And if there's a consensus that demanding that there be two different instances that need to use the key to open up the personal identification, then I have a hard problem understanding the reason why government parties don't choose the safest version. There are no other disadvantages in imposing such high standards than the narrowness of procedures in cases where there is a need to go back — which would otherwise apply in relatively few cases, because very much of this use could happen without going back. So I find it hard to understand why the committee isn't gathered to put the list right where the majority wants to add it. Back to the starting point, to Jon Bing's general prophecy: I'm afraid he's right, that the cumulative effect of the new technology – the wholly legitimate desire to be able to create ever-new registers – will be superfluous if we as legislators are not willing to pay even modest extra costs to make as high demands on privacy as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e834	We now have a proposal that goes straight into a matter that we are going to deal with later in Odelstinget, as several have said. So there's going to be some repetitions in the hall today. It has to be. Nor does it make matters easier when the proposal that has been promoted is, in fact, a general proposal, but is justified in a very specific case, namely the creation of a person-identifiable patient register. So it's also a little confusing when we try to explain why we mean what we mean. I should therefore first of all refer to the very proposal to create a new Norwegian patient register that should be person-identifiable. I also understand that the Left really argues for in its proposal for a representative is a pseudonymous register, which is something quite different from what they are actually proposing in their proposal, which is primarily about an external encryption unit, which is, in this way, identical to that which the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right will promote in the Odelstingen afterwards. I'd like to say a little bit about the establishment of what we're really quite misleading calling a person-identifiable patient registry, and which we probably should have tried to find another name that was more in line with what this is actually about. The term ‘personally identifiable’ can create an insecurity that, I believe, is not necessary. This is also a proposal that has been discussed for years, and it is in many ways good. Over the years that have gone by, as one has discussed this in a perspective that I otherwise see Inge Wohnung pulled out in a good way, a reflected way, there have been some things, especially technology. There has been a very strict law, which takes care of the need for the safe and secure storage of information. In SV we have a spinal reflex in terms of privacy. We are committed to ensuring that sensitive information about the inhabitants does not go into the wrong hands, cannot be misused or cannot be secured well enough. That is why we have also asked a number of questions about the safety of this register, which is now being established. The Committee has also had two hearings, which are quite unusual, to clear up ambiguities – experimentally, at least – and we have had many meetings with people on both sides who are concerned about this. I believe that has strengthened the matter. It's also been very instructive. And we've been made sure from SV's point of view that the establishment of a Norwegian patient registry in the form it is now added to is wise. Personally identifiable records provide better quality assurance of data than pseudonymous records would provide. It is also important for patient protection. Personally identifiable records better serve research purposes and are better suited to developing the quality of patient treatment. Security will be ensured as much as possible. There are very strict rules relating to the storage and use of this information, which relate inter alia to: Encryption, but also much, much more, because encryption is not enough. We're, like the Left, concerned about how hugely important it is that the health care community has confidence in the population. Therefore, both technical and organisational barriers of the highest quality are introduced in order to avoid abuse, e.g.: will not be linked to patient data, either in communication or in registers. In addition, neither the birth number is stored in the encryption solution nor in the register itself. The encrypted birth number is not provided, all communications will be encrypted, all users and machines will be authenticated, and there will be a firewall in front of each machine in the system. The extradition will require your own permission, and only a few specially authorized employees can trigger decryption. Decryption and delivery will require the involvement of the quality assurance system at all stages, and all processes will be logged. If the result of a link is to be obtained in a person-identifiable form, then a separate concession is required from the Data Protection Authority. A person-identifiable register cannot be extended without new downgrading. The use of information contained in the register for the purposes of the register is illegal. In addition, – to be sure that encrypted personal identification by itself is not sufficient for the proper protection of privacy – a comprehensive legal, regulatory and administrative framework has been developed to ensure privacy in databases containing both birth numbers and health information. Not all registers need to be person-identifiable, nor do all registers need to be pseudonymous. It is therefore not appropriate to establish a single form of registers for all health records, as the Left calls for, for research or for privacy reasons. The purpose of a person-identifiable register cannot be extended without new bulk treatment, because it will in reality be a new register if it is to be extended. In addition, it is illegal to use information in the register for the purposes of the register. We have carefully assessed from the SV side and from the entire fractional point of view whether we should go in for an external encryption device to ensure this possible unanimity – I am not so sure on the left, which initially wants a pseudonymous register. For example, the benefit of this would be: be that it could give an additional safety signal to the population. But then there are also some disadvantages associated with it, which we have assessed against this advantage. It will, as someone so strikingly said – I think it was the representative Tegen – involve a 28th lock in the range of locks, i.e. not a lock number. 2, as claimed here by the representative of Nesvik. But the drawbacks are that, among other things, There will necessarily be an additional source of error, and if external encryption requires that the mission be regularly put on the market, questions can be asked about whether this will promote the confidence of the population. And so is it that if someone really wants to break in and commit a criminal act, they'll be able to do it, regardless of whether the information is to be encrypted by an external unit or internally, and then it doesn't help whether an external encryption unit is established. It's all the other security mechanisms that will be very important, and that we've been very careful about, to check if they're in place. We believe that they are. Because there are strict rules attached to this, and now, on the proposal of us in the three batches, it is also stated in the law that the information is to be encrypted. A meeting is a proposal from, among others: Professor Erik Boe. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is important that people know which safeguards are in fact available to protect people's personal data. Good information is essential to the patient’s sense of security. That is exactly why it was so important for us in the SV to put us thoroughly into what security mechanisms are actually in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e865	Research is under way in which new knowledge contributes to the better treatment of serious diseases. There is a hope of saving lives because diseases that many people have died of now have found new treatments for. This is good, and the Christian People's Party will facilitate progress. The extension of the purpose of the Norwegian patient registry to not only be a management tool for specialist healthcare but also to include research is useful because it will contribute to better health care in the population. But a person-identifiable patient registry can be a threat to privacy. This is where the consideration of the individual is directed towards strong scientific interests. Clearly, sensitive personal data on human health should not be compromised. It is important to have such a good law that it is prevented. I see external encryption as crucial beyond what the government party is proposing in Stortinget. However, this will take account of the Government’s objective of following the individual patient in the course of treatment. I would like to point out that I seem to see a certain pattern in the issues that come from the Government – a pattern of strong ties to heavy research environments, a change in the law to allow researchers to operate very freely. This pattern worries me. The bill on patient registers is not the only legislative proposal that points to this. As presented in Ot.prp, the Christian People's Party is also concerned about the proposal for amendments to the Biotechnology Act currently under consideration by the Health and Care Committee. No 26 for 2006-2007. Without going into that debate, I see a bill that takes care of research rather than the need to do so. a fertilised egg. Another example of close links to research interests and the lack of care for individual people in the law is also, as I see it, the note that has been at the hearing on xeno transplantation, i.e. use of human organs or tissues. Despite the fact that this is not a treatment form elsewhere, but has only been tried to a limited extent, the Government maintains this as an important future treatment option. The type of law to which it is posted by the Government in the matters mentioned here concerns me. Progress in research involves the performance and status of researchers both nationally and internationally, of course. Furthermore, economic interests are also linked to this growing industry. These relationships must not prevent us from protecting patients in the best possible way. That today's government parties are governed by white coats, I hope not vote because privacy and equivalency principles should still be held very, very high. With the development the government wants or sketches within several areas, I have mentioned someone, it is all the more important that just as much privacy is ensured as possible. I am concerned that the Government will not go for external encryption, as the majority, opposition parties, in the Committee have proposed, and that would mean an additional security lock. What you call the register, I kind of think is immaterial. The only difference between the government parties and the opposition parties is whether or not we should have external encryption. The opposition parties believe that the additional safety lock should be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e889	Both the matter we are dealing with here in Stortinget, this proposal for a representative, and the matter we are going to discuss later today, Ot.prp. No 49, raises questions about privacy. The collection of personal data – the certainty that sensitive information about us or about our loved ones is stored somewhere, that someone knows about them, that someone will know or know about them, that someone will take advantage of the information, that people or institutions that have nothing to do with it in any way will get to know or know about us that they do not require – will cause many concerns. Therefore, it is important that registers with a special purpose are organised at the same time so that the information cannot be misused. Many of the speakers today have said that ICT and its opportunities are progressing. I also think a lot of people agree that storing personal data electronically in many areas is far safer than storing it in paper versions. I want to maintain this with the purpose of the registers. I have to say I'm reacting a little bit to the tirad that Laila Davøy from the Christian People's Party comes with when she talks about that she sees a tendency that the government parties are almost flat for the research. The purpose of the register that we will be dealing with later in Odelstinget today is not to open up research for the sake of research, but to ensure that the treatment we are exposed to and receive in healthcare today is optimal – to be able to follow patients and to see that the treatment procedures and methods we receive lead to results and improve health. That's why I don't think it's time to hear that kind of accusation about such an important area as ensuring and improving the quality of treatment in Norwegian healthcare. In fact, I thought that the representative Davøy and the Christian People's Party were also interested in improving the quality of the treatment that is. The cancer register is a good example of what a registry can do to improve treatment in a special diagnosis. What the disagreement is about in this case is whether you need internal or external encryption. It kind of boils down to it. I think it is good that one agrees with one thing so far that it only goes on, but we have also, after the odelstingsproposition was presented, evaluated external encryption, and found that we do not want it. One of the reasons that I see, and that I think is essential, is that external encryption becomes another instance that should deal with this private, personal information. I think one should also consider that, and we have assessed it. We've really assessed whether to have external or internal encryption, and found that having internal encryption is what serves the purpose of the registry the best. It is not just encryption, or who encrypts, that is essential to ensure privacy; there are a number of rules, regulations and procedures – yes, a comprehensive law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e900	This debate is particularly related to the health register, but I am very pleased that some of the purpose of our proposal, that we should focus on privacy, is what has actually become the core of this debate. I am pleased that we have had this debate in Stortinget, because the right to life without trace is now less and less present for the individual citizen. The left puts every single person and every single citizen's freedom very high. That is why we have now had a strategy: we have made a lot of representational proposals when it comes to different aspects of privacy, which we today see as very threatening. I'll just briefly refer to a few of the following suggestions: We had a proposal last year, Document No. 8:54 for 2005-2006, which went on to appoint a Privacy Commission. We have Document No. 8:9 for the 2006-2007 review of privacy in the transport sector. We have Document No. 8:10 for 2006-2007 on the processing of personal data, personal data law. Then we have today's case, and we also have a case that we have that goes on health insurance and privacy. Privacy comes into the vast majority of areas, almost all of them. If a person thinks that a matter of privacy is a sausage in the slaughtering days, in our opinion it is totally misleading. Privacy intervenes in all, most of the cases, and we need to get privacy much more in focus. Freedom provides that every individual should be protected from undue interference in his or her private life and that he or she should be able to participate in working and social life without feeling controlled or monitored. That's what makes us in the Left want strong privacy. Individuals have the right to personal information, and therefore they are also entitled to control the use of this information by others. Personal information should not be able to become a commodity without the consent of the individual. Anonymous options shall be available to allow day-to-day operations to be carried out without the information being recorded and stored over time. Of course, we need to provide personal information to ensure good medical treatment, to ensure that researchers can do a good job, and in general have systems that make it possible to monitor criminals across borders. But the measures must be targeted and not just to ensure that all citizens can be monitored at any given time. There is a limit, and as has been said before from this pulpit today, it is important to find the balance between what the public authorities have the right to do and what we citizens can reserve our privacy against. And that limit we're starting to get more and more tedious. We in the Left feel that we are quite alone and are the only party with an accomplished principle thinking in this area. The second party is for privacy one day and for a compressed DNA registry for all Norwegian citizens the next. We are constantly getting reports of measures that limit privacy, largely uncritically based on the need to combat terrorism. For example, the EU is now considering introducing a system to prevent citizens from accessing certain web sites by making the Internet a hostile territory for terrorists. The most familiar systems for censoring the Internet are national firewalls with filtering and censorship, such as: exist in China under the name of The Great Firewall of China. If there's something they're doing in China, it's building walls. The corresponding system also exists in Saudi Arabia and in other more or less dictatorial states. Another example is something you're doing in the United States. A new monitoring system is now being developed called Tangram, where the main goal is to go through a large number of electronic tracks and find patterns in the behaviour of citizens, and then, on this basis, assign citizens so-called suspect points, almost a dot load of the Norwegian driver card – enough suspect points and you become a terrorist. A startling development! In more and more areas, we find that technology is going to lead, with the powers of government running forward, where, in the service of the good cause, it is not always as easy to let the concerns of principle about the rights of citizens come first. In the opinion of the Left, it should not be that way. This is why it is important to be in the forefront, and therefore it is important and right to have the principle in place first and then to develop the practical policy. For us in the Left, strong privacy is decisive both for the individual's freedom and for democracy. It is therefore left to me that there should be very heavy arguments for the privacy concerns to give up. We now see a trend towards a more general surveillance, not just to combat terrorism, but for example. to prevent tagging, shop-knocking and cash deposits. This type of action is targeted at all citizens and is fundamentally different from where one has a concrete suspicion of crime. Privacy includes, inter alia: the right to anonymous movement. Technological developments are now making it possible for us to follow the movement of the individual, for example. where one is, when one is there, how one got there, and what one is doing there. As far as I am concerned, the Government is now implementing an EU directive requiring all new toll systems to build on technologies such as satellite positioning and mobile communications. The aim of the State Road Service is that each car should now have an electronic tag that can be used for payment, not only in roadblocks, but also in ferries, in service stations, in other transport, etc. A lot of information is put together, and it's actually possible to track the caristics anywhere, hour by hour. It's not like we're going to the public transport, because we know that in August, Oslo Sporveier and the NSB got a clear signal to monitor the whole area on buses and trains. These examples represent, together, a long step in the direction of a monitoring society. We're on our way to a society that adds that one has something to hide if one doesn't want to be monitored. The argument for introducing these measures is divided into two parts. It's practical with just one piece, and it can be used to apprehend criminals. When it comes to the practical argument, the Data Protection Authority has shown that there are good trackless options. Yes, they represent a little more loot and a little bit more booklet for the toll companies, but it might be worth it. Unfortunately, when it comes to the argument about fighting crime, the gangs of criminals always find dirt. We innocents are the victims of the surveillance. Today, new health registers are being created at different levels of society. We have large national registers that have acquired necessary and valuable knowledge of the health of the population. But we see a continuing, increasing pressure to make it easier to collect, use and keep personal data related to health. In our eagerness to monitor the population, we are at risk of people losing confidence in the health system. There are others who have said this before: that people no longer dare to be honest with their doctor or lose confidence in their therapists can lead to the loss of confidence in health services. A single failure can lead to irreversible consequences for the population. This is the background to our proposal, which – albeit slightly modified – is being discussed today. Norwegian patient registry, which we're going to treat in Odelstinget later today, is a new register to follow the population from birth to grave. It is crucial that the health care system has confidence in the population. Anxiety and insecurity may occur when information likely to be provided to health professionals is passed on to a central register. The Data Protection Authority is of the opinion that the choice of register form is decisive to remedy the privacy disadvantage of the establishment of a person-specific Norwegian patient registry itself, and therefore recommends that pseudonyms be used instead of birth numbers. The privacy system may not be represented as easily in a person-identifiable registry as in a pseudo-nymous registry. A pseudonymous register is a proportionately much better option, which can safeguard society’s interest in better access and individual interest in good privacy. The Norwegian patient registry will hold a large collection of sensitive information and will be planned as a register to follow the patient from birth to death, and then we will keep it and keep it permanently. This personal information may be misleading. It has been said that ICT is so safe, but in a look-up that I registered last fall, the National Auditor said that this social security register was in no way safe. There could be some detours, and a fear that information from this register, with all these sensitive information, might be misleading. At least there are dangers here that we have to deal with. The consequence of errors could be serious when the selected registry form makes it easier to find the individual behind the data. If a registry form is selected which allows access to identifying information, it will also make it easier to extract the information for bad purposes. The ability to compile personal data is getting better and better. The risk picture for all health caregivers will be changed with a Norwegian patient register with birth numbers, because it will be easier to compile information and identify individuals in these compiled registers as well. A Norwegian register of passports with birth numbers may appear as a key register for obtaining other identifiable information. It seems unclear why the pseudonymous solution is considered to be the case in connection with the creation of the Recipe and IPLOS registry, while this line is not followed up for the Norwegian patient registry, which is a register with a much wider impact field with regard to the number of registered and number of parameters compared to each other. Failure to establish a Norwegian patient register as a pseudonymous register is to facilitate misuse of the information. The information will be used if one has them – I think we should be able to say – for purposes other than an original plan. It is a fundamental obligation to handle personal data in the least intervening manner when it is at the same time largely satisfying the objective. A pseudonymous registry is clearly less invasive than an identifiable registry. In hospitals, information on treatment needs to be person-identifiable, but one does not need it in a central health register. In any case, links between registers should take place in encrypted form. These personal data will be found around Health-Noreg, and it will create a vulnerable system. We're afraid that it'll be as if the goat were being seen to fit the oat sack, unless there's a third outside instance that fits. New health records are still being created. Since no one can predict the future, it is of the utmost importance, in the Left's view, that all new health records are created in such a way that people can be confident that personal information is not lost or used for purposes that are not visible to you today. Finally, on 28 January, which we have just passed, it was the European Privacy Day. It is to be hoped that such markings on privacy issues will increase the attention on the theme, both in the population, in the ruling powers and in the political party. The left will applaud and continue to work for this to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e951	I would like to comment first on something the representative Davøy said in his post. I heard the representative more than suggested that it was the close contact of the government or government parties with researchers that was the basis for the attitude we had in this matter, in terms of the biotechnology law, and, as I understood it, in other matters as well. I will take a very strong distance from that. I also heard the representative Davøy saying that we put it in the interests of the individual. I also want to take a strong distance from that. It is precisely for the sake of individuals and to be able to help and improve the treatment we propose what we do in the Biotechnology Act, which we will have plenty of opportunity to come back to in this Chamber, and also what we propose in this specific case. I am somewhat surprised at the use of words that the Christian People's Party chooses to base on the things we are now talking about. So to this specific matter. The reason why we have different forms of registers in the Health Register Act is that we should be able to choose the form of the register that provides the best possible privacy for the person who is registered, while at the same time respecting the purpose of the register. What the proposers refer to as externally encrypted registers will be pseudonymous records in current health records legislation. Not all registers need to be person-identifiable, nor do all registers need to be pseudonymous. For some registers, identified data are sufficient to fulfil the purpose of the register. It is therefore necessary to determine the best register form for each registry. It is therefore not appropriate, in my view, to establish a single form of registration for all health records, either in relation to research or in relation to privacy considerations. I understand that the proposers have seen their proposal in the context of the discussion that will take place in Odelstinget a little later today. The Norwegian patient registry does not currently provide sufficient information on the extent to which healthcare is able to ensure good access for the whole population to high-quality healthcare. These include: therefore the Government considers that it is necessary to amend the register form. Through the Cancer Register, we have, as we know, personally identifiable data on cancer cases, treatment and outcomes of cancer, while we lack this for a whole range of other diseases. I think that's why many patient organisations support the government's proposal. Both a pseudonymous and a person-identifiable Norwegian patient registry can meet the sector's management objectives. So I don't think there's any disagreement. But we believe that a ‘personally identifiable’ – I agree with the representative of Thorkildsen that the word itself is not that good, so we can work on it further – gives us the opportunity to get better data quality. That is why we believe that that register will also be able to achieve research objectives in a better way. This applies in particular to clinical research and epidemiological research. A pseudonymous register imposes more restrictions on coupling and quality assurance than a person-identifiable registry does. Quality records are usually of such a nature that they have to be person-identifiable. Therefore, a pseudonymous register cannot be used as a basis for this type of register. I'm going to believe that the most important thing for patients is to get good treatment when they need it. We believe that patients' interests are best protected by the register form that we then recommend for Stortinget, because it provides the best basis for ensuring the quality of patient care. That is why I also believe that this proposal by those concerned is so welcome. I am of course, like everyone else, aware that we are talking about very sensitive information, and that therefore it is absolutely essential that the processing of this information be subject to very strict rules. I must point out that the information in a person-identified Norwegian patient register is not stored with the name and personal number. The information will be encrypted, both in the registry itself and on delivery and receipt. Good technical solutions shall be established to ensure that information is not biased. Finally, I would like to point out what I think might be some ambiguity in Document No. The 8th proposal. The proposal states that whenever Norwegian patient registers in a person-identifiable form are linked to another person-identifiable register, new and increasingly comprehensive personal-identifiable registers will arise, and many will eventually have the sensitive information from Norwegian patient registers. It's not like that. It is not that a person-identifiable Norwegian patient registry can be linked to other registers without further delay and that the result will always be in a person-identifiable form. Of course, if the result of a link between registers is to be obtained in a person-identifiable form, a separate concession from the Data Protection Authority is required to do so. The proposers also say that the content of the register is likely to be extended later and that information will be used for purposes other than the original plan. This isn't right either. The purpose of a person-identifiable register cannot be extended without new bulk treatment, because it will in reality be a new register if it is to be extended. Furthermore, of course, it is also illegal to use information in the register for something that is outside the purpose of the register itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e982	The two issues we are going to deal with today, both in Stortingen and Odelstingen, are important issues on how to meet future challenges in the treatment of new diseases and today’s diseases. In addition to the established registers, a national patient registry will be an important tool for research, not for research alone, but for solving the important disease images that we see coming, and those that we have in our country today. The representative Davøy not only suggests, but says, that there are strong links between the Government and the research communities that exist. Whether these are the public research environments or the private research environments to which she refers, I do not know, but I think they are quite strong indications from the representative in this area. Such a register we are talking about here today is also available in our neighbouring countries. But the register we set up is a much stronger and much safer system than any other country around us has. So we also make important progress in relation to the solutions that we see. The representative Davøy also strongly argues against the Government, but at the same time, both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party point out that the only difference is whether you want internal encryption or external encryption. If that's just the small difference, then why is it such a terrible commitment to the proposal that lies here? It seems that access to this highly encrypted information will be open to anyone who wants to research, but that is not the case. There will be strict safety provisions on who is to have access to this information and on how to handle this information in these environments. Is it true that if you have this information out in a private external research environment, it provides better patient safety, better treatment and better research results. I'd say it's the opposite, that we would then have an additional risk than what we see today. Our starting point in this case is to provide patients today's and the future with the best possible treatment in relation to the diseases we see. The other registers have shown that too. Long-term research on both medication, treatments, etc. have made us step further, and have made the treatments more accurate than ever. I would say that good research and good education of our future medical specialists will provide more efficient use of resources, and provide more security for those patients who need proper health care. We also see in the Nord-Trundelag, through the HUNT study, which is a large survey, where a lot of information is preserved, that people are not afraid to participate in these studies. It is safe that these studies over a long period of time will help to mitigate social differences and contribute to better medication and treatment provision. That's what's the starting point for the law as well and that's what's going to ensure this for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e995	Let me grab hold of where the last honourable speaker stopped. In the case of participation in large studies of the type referred to therein, it is known as consent-based. It makes a very crucial difference. What is the starting point for us to discuss a difficult issue is that it is based on the opposite principle of what applies in all medical ethics and in all health care in this country, namely that it is voluntary. It's not mandatory. That's what, at my discretion, is the real crossroads of thought in this case, that the government parties take on this fundamental question as easily as they do. In the position in the second case, that is to say, the one to be dealt with in the after-sales meeting, it is said that the best way to safeguard privacy and the easiest way to solve this would be to do intensive information activities for all citizens of that country. Yeah, maybe. At the same time, however, it is based on a fundamental mistrust of the individual's ability to care for their own interests, because it is said that it cannot be based on consent, because it will not be representative, that is. you take it for granted that if you had asked people for their consent, there would be a larger or smaller number that would have answered no. I have to say, I'm amazed that you don't see the basic dilemma you're moving into here. Then I have to say that it surprises me that several figures for the government parties in this debate come up with a split new argument that no one has heard in the committee's discussion, or in the consultation rounds, namely that investing in external encryption would pose a greater risk. I must say, it's very creative. But it's fundamentally stunning, because that argument has none of them heard from any of the experts we had in to the hearing. What we could all hear from the experts was that they live in each other's world. Those who represent medical research environments live in their world, and they have a very hard time seeing that there are objections at all, or that privacy concerns matter in particular. Data protection and the legal disciplines live in a completely different world. That is why we also received very, very different answers to the questions we asked. But none of the experts suggested as much as the idea here being used as an argument, namely that external encryption should be worse than protecting privacy than internal encryption. At the same time, government parties have written in their comments that they accept that the requirement for external encryption implies a slightly higher degree of privacy protection. So here you have to kind of decide what foot you want to stand on. You can't mean both of them at the same time. So, finally, both the representative of the Skjälaa and the Council of State strongly raised themselves above the posts of the representative of Davøy. The skilful said it was premature to hear – I noticed – like that. This may be because he heard something that was not said. She's the best. Because what I heard from the representative, Mr. Davøy, was really a fairly simple indication that both in this case – or in the two matters it concerns – and in a number of other issues that come from the Government, it is an obvious feature to emphasise the arguments that come from a heavy research environment more strongly than what others do. And it can't be insulting to point out the very simple fact. It is well below this, perhaps also from the representative of Davøy, an indication that it is a bit surprising that the Central Party has changed its side in Norwegian policy on precisely these issues, and today it seems to emphasise the different considerations in exactly the same way that the senior partner in government cooperation, the Workers' Party, has always had the habit of doing. No one doubts that the research communities have noble motives. It was supposed to be missing. Of course, they have good motives – that is not what we are discussing. But it is now the case, both in the field of research and other human activities, that relatively often the road to a certain place is paved with good intentions. It does not help to have good motives if you are not at the same time willing to go in and take on the serious objections that arise, not against the motives, but against the means you want to use. In Ot.prp. No 49 for 2005-2006 there are some dilemmas that I don't think are sufficiently clarified, but more needs to be read between the lines than on the lines. One of the dilemmas is what I pointed out, namely that you reject the principle of consent almost without discussion. Because if you had believed that all people of their own free will would realize that it is useful for them to accept that data on their health status is stored, you would have to have consented. But you don't think so. It is estimated that there would be too many people who then refused to register. The second dilemma is that one argues very strongly that the procedure proposed by the proposition is so sure that there is really no cause for concern at all. At the same time, it is said that there is a significant number of personal data that you do not want to allow to store in this register, because they are too tender. The two thoughts don't go very well either, because if one had seriously thought that this was foolproof – to use the popular expression – yes, then there's no reason to worry at all. It's still as puzzling to me as it was before the debate started, why the government parties have not been able to join in the wish we have from an overall opposition to increase the privacy record as high as possible. Why you want to put it a little lower, I still have no good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1016	It is tempting to ask whether it is a parliamentary expression to say that a representative is actually wearing pants, but I could rather say that here it is the emperor's new clothes that apply. In what the representative is now saying, there is no substantial side to the matter, namely that the proposal we have before us, and which we shall vote on afterwards, was promoted by his own Council of State! Who would have thought that? It was promoted in the last period by the Council of State Ansgar Gabrielsen, then Minister of Health from the Right. Clearly, he must have been completely exposed to any reflection on privacy! And not enough of that: he promoted it on behalf of the entire previous government. In other words, the Christian People's Party and the Left were also involved in this proposal. I can't understand anything other than the fact that the representative who is currently working on the payroll is a political game, and that the consequence of this could be that patients are getting less trust in the Norwegian health care system. I think it is good that many questions relating to privacy have been asked about this matter, and I ask to be believed that we have actually done so from SV's side. We have been extremely concerned about whether privacy is being properly protected, whether security and security are good enough. It is extremely important for patients to be assured that the information they provide to the healthcare system is stored in a safe and sound manner. As a patient, I don't want anyone to be able to ‘find out’ my disease history. But as a patient, I am also concerned that there should be good quality of the research that we can now initiate, assuming that we have stored this information, which can have a very significant impact on me further as a patient, and on the treatment that I receive from the same healthcare system. Based on the post that the representative paid, I find it strange that the consequence is not that the right actually goes for a pseudonymous register. That's not right! Right wants remote encryption. What I've said is that we've actually made a careful assessment of whether it's a wise suggestion, whether it's going to make so much profit from the disadvantages that are. We've come to the conclusion that there are some disadvantages associated with what makes the win go up in the spin. I ask respect for that, and not a hustle and bustle about that we don't care about privacy. In the hearings we had, I really don't think it was the gigantic distance between the researchers on the one hand and the so-called experts on the other. But a lot of people talked past each other, and in the committee we didn't understand what was really the reality of the matter. That's why we had two hearings. After all, it turns out that both sides are in favour of a person-identifiable register, but that one party wants external encryption and clearly believes that it will ensure security in an extremely much better way, while the other party says: you know what, it's actually very well-managed with the system that we're putting up with. There are also good laws that guarantee this, because we can't just rely on encryption. Encryption is not guaranteed against burglaries. If someone really wants to break in, they can do it. Then it's a criminal act. It's forbidden, but they can do it. If you think it is so serious that we cannot collect the information in a national patient registry, you have to promote it as a proposal and not make proposals for external encryption, which will not ensure that people can actually break in. The way you argue, and what you actually do after, doesn't depend on my judgements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1031	I also think it is a little sad that the representative Wage and several speakers are trying to create the impression that the Government and the government parties take light interest in privacy. It is true, as the representative of Thorkildsen said, that our position here is in line with what Ansgar Gabrielsen stood for and what the previous government stood for. We also believe – like them – that privacy is well protected in our proposal, because the proposal we have does not mean that personally identifiable data is openly available in registers. We know that there are few people who are given access to this register. It is regulated through access controls, security clearance, logging, electronic tracks and requirements for authorised access. Those working with registers will not be able to see the name of the data subjects, nor the birth number. Of course, anyone with access to health information in a register is subject to professional secrecy law, both under the Health Care Act and under the Administrative Act. Of course, technical and physical data protection measures are of great importance in order to ensure the privacy of all health records, regardless of the type of register you actually choose. I therefore believe that it is fully possible to maintain privacy in a very good way also in a person-identifiable register. Otherwise we wouldn't have suggested it. In addition, we believe that it provides better opportunities to ensure the quality of patient data. I think that is actually also an important part of privacy. This is a choice. We believe that the proposal we have is better suited to facilitating better patient treatment. We have, as we know, the Cancer Register in that form today, and I don't think it's without reason that the Cancer Association and very many other patient organisations support this. When the Cancer Society does that, it's because they realize that they're going through, among other things. that register – by being able to follow individuals, get better data opportunities and can research more – can provide people with e.g. cancer better treatment options. That's an important point with this whole law. With regard to the dispute with Wage, I understand that he is acting on behalf of the representative, Mr. Davøy, but what she said is not more correct about him repeating it. By the way, he did not even repeat it, because what the representative Davøy said, at least I heard differently than the way the representative Wohnung tried to reproduce it. I have great respect for the fact that someone has different opinions about different things. It was just supposed to be missing! But I think it's strange that one has to resort to arguments that there should be close ties with researchers or others, or similar statements, which are the reason one lands on one or the other option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1044	No wage has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1047	I find that the Council of State, possibly inspired by the representative of Thorkildsen, was deceived into misinforming the Stortinget. The right thing is that her predecessor Ansgar Gabrielsen sent out a draft hearing with similar content. But unlike the current government, the previous government practiced it so that when they sent things out to the hearing, it was because they were interested in the answers they got back, and they were interested in learning something from what the hearing authorities said. I must be allowed to note that the majority of the Committee, i.e. the opposition parties, fully supports its position from such heavy consultation bodies as the Data Protection Agency, the Health and Social Services Centre, the Norwegian Medical Association, the National Telemedicine Centre, the National Association of Heart and Pulmonary Diseases and the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons. That is a not insignificant support for our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1054	It is quite clear that when the committee initially opened up free speaking time in this matter, it knew what it opened up to. On the flip, I have expressed my belief that the Left has used up its speaking time for the rest of the year. But it is now a completely different matter. This is a matter of principle importance, because it is a matter of balances between different considerations, namely the data protection approach on the one hand and the scientific approach on the other. Then we have to try to land somewhere in the middle, so that we get the results we want, and that privacy is also well maintained. In many ways, we involve two issues in this matter, which also raise certain issues, including: Thorkildsen's contributions on the draft consultation that Ansgar Gabrielsen sent out. It is clear that when you send out a draft consultation, you do not make the final version until you have actually seen what the individual authorities think about the matter. That's what in many ways has also been the result of the case we're going to deal with in Odelstinget later today, Ot.prp. No 49 for 2005-2006, because external input has been received, saying that external encryption should be looked at instead of the internal one, to which it is added, precisely in order to improve data protection. I don't think we're going to make it that much bigger than that. I think you might use more forceful words here than there is any basis for doing so. I think we're going to take over that as well. However, what is a very important point in what the representative for Wage was about is the call to try and get the government parties to join in on the external encryption. It's because if we create this kind of register, it's not for a short, time-limited period. We're talking about information that will be stored over a long time. Then it is also important that we have the widest possible political majority behind the decision. This must work, it must last over time – hopefully also through a changing political majority in this Chamber. That's why it's been important for the opposition to try to get just the government to look at the external encryption bit, because the extra security, in the opinion of the opposition at least, and also in the opinion of several hearing bodies, could be the contribution that makes you become a little less skeptical than you might initially be to give away information to the health service. What at least is my starting point here is that I think it would be the best thing for research, and that it would be the best for individuals in terms of privacy. I also think it would be the best political solution. I also feel that some people are savouring together the different forms of records we're talking about. It is quite natural when we have both had this debate, and not least the hearings we had in the Health and Care Committee on this matter. It actually eventually falls on an internal or external encryption. It should not be believed in many ways when you have heard the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1069	I'll try to be short! In any case, I found that the debate has shown that the theme that is the surrounding main theme, privacy, is something that is important. It was important to get a discussion about it. What I wanted to say about when we talk about these definitions is what the real differences in perceptions are. In any case, I believe that the proposal we now have in this document states that ‘information should be stored with encrypted identity’. That's actually the main point -- one of the main points. Then there's going to be an external encryption. However, a register where the registry information is to be stored with encrypted identity is per. definition in Ot.prp. No 49, a pseudonymous health register. That's one of the definitions that's drawn up there. So we don't have to spend a lot of time on it. But when the government party goes against this proposal, they don't say what they're in favour of. It's very easy to believe that they're in favour of the second extreme, a person-identifiable health register, what stands as the first of four definitions in the proposition. I think maybe the problem between the minority and the plurality in this room is more real than anyone wants to make it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1080	Just to clarify – if anyone is in doubt, what I was talking about was sent to the hearing was the bill from the previous government. There was also the representative, Mr Davøy, a member. I assume that the previous government had an opinion on the matter before they sent it to the hearing. Of course, it is normal that it sounds, but my impression is that Ansgar Gabrielsen did not change his view after the hearing that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1085	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1794]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1093	Then Stortinget will go to voting in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1101	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left 2, from Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The vote will begin with an alternative vote between the Committee's position and the proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1118	The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose changes to the Competition Act during the spring of 2007 in order to establish an independent competition title in line with the recommendations of the Competition Law Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1133	There will then be a vote against the proposal by the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with regard to rules and systematics relating to review procedures in the field of competition.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right now want to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1165	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1173	During the debate, Mr Tegen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:14 [[2006-2007]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01.ana.ud543e1262	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
