ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e50	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Egil Bergsland is dead, 83 years old. Egil Bergsland was born and grew up on Notodden and lived there throughout his life, except in the period 1977–1981, when he was elected as the biggest representative of Telemark. He grew up under poor conditions in Heddal and never hid that this shaped his political vision. Egil Bergland was employed for 43 years in Norsk Hydro on Notodden. He was literally by the old school, the industrial worker who walked the long way from the floor to the director's chair. During World War II he quickly entered illegal activities and entered Milorg. In the period 1973-1977 he represented his county as a second deputy on the Stortinget, a place he liked. At the nomination in 1977 he therefore said yes to standing in the same place. Until then, the Workers' Party had two representatives from Telemark. However, the working party made a fall-off and doubled the number of representatives. Egil Bergland suddenly became a permanent representative. Egil Bergsland was an honest man and never allowed to hide that he liked better as an alternate than being stuck on the Stortinget. Bergsland was early outside and said that one period on Stortinget was more than enough. During this period he was a member of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee. Egil Bergsland's municipal and county policies were primarily hot. He joined Heddal Municipal Council as early as 1955 and walked through the Presidency via the Vice-President until he ended up as rapporteur in Notodden Municipality. He was a member of the Telemark County from 1963 to 1983 and served in the County Committee from 1979 to 1993. He also had a large number of public offices and trusts in the Workers' Party. A long day's work is over. We bring peace to Egil Bergsland's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e82	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e91	First, I want to take the opportunity to congratulate the state council of Tora Aasland on a new job and welcome her back to Stortinget, albeit in a slightly different role than last time. The Progress Party has made a proposal that students who take more credits than normal may be able to convert a larger part of the study loan into education scholarships. Quality reform in higher education was launched in 2003. One of the objectives of the quality reform is for several students to carry out the studies at a standard time, including: through closer follow-up of the students. At the same time, the study support system introduced an economic incentive in which the size of the grant's share of the study aid depends on the study progress. One of the reasons for the quality reform was the lack of study quality and low throughput. Norwegian students only gained about half of the weights, as it was hot at the time, which were normal. So they essentially studied at half speed. In the evaluation of the Quality Reform, there has been a slight increase in the production of study credits, the new designation of weightings, following the introduction of the Quality Reform. In this context, the proposers wish to establish additional financial incentives for carrying out the studies even more quickly than the standard progress suggests, by allowing an even greater proportion of the loan to be converted into training grants. Norway is a rich country with the best conditions for creating world-class higher education. It is therefore important that we facilitate this. But not least when it comes to finding good arrangements for being a full-time student, we probably have a long way to go, and it is important that the work on finding good measures to increase the proportion of students taking the study in a normal time is still high. We are not in the target of this, although the evaluation of the quality reform may indicate that we are moving in the right direction. Although the concept of rewarding good progress through the study is an important tool, it is also obvious that the reasons why Norwegian students study at lower speeds than normal are very complex. But a perhaps even more important job than to make sure that they are about. 10 pst. In fact, students who study faster than normal receive an additional reward is to make sure that the proportion of students who study in normal time comes up. Studying is about acquiring professional knowledge and qualifications. But it's also about rehearsing the ability of critical reflection, for perspective reflection, for ethical orientation, for analysing and using methods, and for demonstrating independence from the substance you acquire. These are skills that are often referred to as ‘education’ and say something about education and training being also about maturation. In the debate on study progress and throughput, it is important not to lose sight of this perspective of formation. Senses of very many professional and social considerations suggest that the normal progress of the various studies is both feasible and should be sought, any debate on progress should also include a recognition that studies are about maturation. I am pleased that an overall committee emphasises the need to take the perspective of formation into account in the debate on throughput. Progress is important, but progress is not everything. That being said, I would like to add that, in the opinion of the Right, there is no contradiction between the work of ensuring that more students follow normal study progresses, and a system that can ensure that those who follow an extra high progression receive an extra reward. Although such measures will apply to a small minority of students, around 10 pst. Today, it is important to create opportunities within the support system also for these students. It will, of course, be a prerequisite that it be designed and financed in such a way that it is not at the expense of the other study funding system. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, would like to see this proposal in the context of the Quality Reform Assessment Communication. On the right, last year all the lots received a proposal for the evaluation to be submitted to the Stortinget, and it has been notified this autumn. It makes sense to be able to see several possible actions and several aspects of the education support system combined in the context of the Single European Act, so that there will be an overall debate. It has been done quickly to discuss individual actions that are perhaps cost-effective or simple to implement, without seeing the whole of the system. That is why I also welcome what is coming from the Government in the Storing Message, and expect that the study support system will also be given a broad review there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e112	I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome Aasland State Council back to the Great Hall! We look forward to close cooperation in the coming period. In the view of the Labour Party and the other government parties, the proposal to give more money to students who complete their studies faster than normal will not promote quality in education. This will be a proposal that will promote mediocrity. It's going to promote a culture where it's about doing the most possible subjects in the shortest possible time, and where the goal is not to achieve good grades. So the education element suggests that the student who has good assumptions should spend his time immersing himself further in his subject. Choosing another subject in the shortest possible time, in our opinion, will not strengthen the element of education, not strengthen the quality and not strengthen the knowledge. That is why we have opposed this proposal. In the Quality Reform, it was important that we increase the progress of the students. We haven't made it far enough. That is why we are meeting the Quality Reform Communication, which will review whether we have achieved the objectives we had. Here, too, there are economic incentives that make it beneficial to implement in a normal time. There's a cross-political consensus that this has been the right goal. In our opinion, this proposal will not promote quality. It will, in our opinion, promote mediocrity, so we're against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e124	One of the starting points for the implementation of the Quality Reform for Higher Education was that one would have faster study progress. Based on the last available figures, it may look like that target is in good order. The case rapporteur, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, mentioned in his contribution that one of the reasons for the quality reform was that the students worked half-speed. I want to say that it can almost seem as if the Stortinget is also working at half speed to improve the conditions for the good students. An important prerequisite for increased implementation rates has been incentives both for students and for institutions. The progress party is sure that one would not have achieved similar progress and results if one had not used these incentives. The Progress Party considers it generally important to facilitate the reward of students with a little extra capacity in order to make use of that capacity to carry out more credits than normal. Today, there is no incentive for such progress. There are no schemes that allow a person to get an extra pat on the shoulder because one makes an extra effort, despite the fact that reducing study time is highly socio-economically profitable. According to the Central Statistical Office, it was approx. 10 pst. by students who in 2004–2005 completed more study credits than normal. At the scientific colleges, the figure was closer to 18 pst. It shows that, on average, there are relatively few who do more points of study than normal, yet there are some. They do it despite the fact that they don't get anything more left for it than the extra study credits. Of course, it's important that one not only thinks about quantity, but focuses heavily on quality. But there is no data available, although the representative Huitfeldt suggested something different from the pulpit a little while ago, which shows that those who have achieved more points of study than normal have a lower character average than the students. There is also nothing to suggest that students who complete multiple points of study have had less from the educational perspective in higher education. It's equally likely that it's the opposite, because these students may have more work capacity and overview than the average student. It is consistently in the policy of the Progress Party that one should reward quality, progress and achievement of the goal. In this way, we are probably a little bit different from the government parties, which are more concerned that students should be as much as possible – confirmed by Huitfeldt on the platform today. They're going to study the same thing, they're going to study for the same time and get equally good or bad professional results. Only when it comes to funding for studies will the other parties discriminate, but we'll get back to that in the next case. The progress party will stimulate everyone to get better. Smoothing can only be achieved by not lifting someone at the expense of others. It's amazing that the government is intensively focusing on balancing differences rather than improving quality and stimulating the good students as well. It was successful to stimulate the progress of studies through the grant system. Why, then, is it not wise to use the same instrument to stimulate students to even greater efforts? I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome Aasland State Council to us! There's reason to hope for a shift in the government's focus on higher education after the state council change, but I don't think so until I see it. I don't think it was former councillor Øystein Djupedal who was the problem of Knowledge-Norges or the Ministry of Knowledge, but the total down-priority of knowledge from the Government. With the framework conditions of former State Council Djupedal, it was not easy to operate towards students, universities, colleges or research environments. It could therefore be interesting to get the new Council of State to say something concrete about how she will contribute to increasing the quality and implementation rate of students when the proposal of the Progress Party to stimulate students to speed up their implementation with the possibility of obtaining greater scholarships is then broached. Is the answer, which former councillor Djupedal so often had to use, taken over by his successor?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e145	I suppose the representative Anders Anundsen would like to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e148	I take up the proposal of the Advance Party from the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e153	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e156	It is a great pleasure for me on behalf of SV to congratulate the Council of State on the new job. We look forward to close cooperation, and we are pleased that she has the opportunity to debut as a state councillor at the Stockholm Chair of Speech today already. That has been said very rationally in relation to the proposal from the Progress Party, both from the case-speaker and from the representative of Huitfeldt, so I should just like to make a few comments on the matter. The National Association of Students has given us a note assessing this proposal. They win, among others. that the incentive to carry out the study faster than the norm is good enough for one with faster progress to receive less loans. So it's a mistake what the previous one said, that you don't have any incentive or incentive to do a study at a faster time than what the system currently provides. So StL says that another important point is that a lot of study is not possible to do faster than normal time, and they found it much more important to spend money on better study funding than on the proposal from the Progress Party. From SV's side, we're some in all of these three notes. What is StL's most important point, as it was also for the case spokesman and for the representative Huitfeldt, is that we have to have a system that focuses on quality and not on quantity. It is clear that it is the most important main argument against the proposal of the Progress Party, which fortunately does not get the support of the Stortinget today. StL says that they believe that this proposal will mean that students will spend less time on the individual subject and thus get a poorer understanding of the subject. There may be a paradox that in the same debate the words that usually go on, 'incentive' and 'formation' are the same. But that is the way it can now and then remain in politics. I also found it interesting that the Progress Party uses its energy on this rather than for example. to use its energy on some of the issues raised by the evaluation of the Quality Reform, and that is that a study for some students, e.g. disabled people may appear to be more difficult after the reform than before. For SV, there is a much bigger challenge than what the Progress Party is engaged in, namely that one, after their opinion, does not have the ability to get the study out faster. But it might say something about the political focus of the party, and that's enough. I would also refer to the letter from the Council of State to the Committee dated 21 August, where the Council of State, Mr Djupedal, considered the proposal of the Progress Party, and where he is doing well to ensure that today's legislation is also subject to monthly flexibility in the rules of the Lånekassa in relation to the time at which a study is to be conducted. I found the proposal from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats totally unnecessary. From the SV page we are pleased that the Government will present the notified message on the evaluation of the Quality Reform. It gives us the opportunity to discuss this and other questions in a better context than what appears to be a somewhat strange political motive from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e177	Let me also, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, welcome the Government Council of Aasland. We are looking forward to constructive cooperation in the future. The objectives of the Quality Reform in Higher Education are ambitious. The quality of education and research shall be improved, the intensity of training shall be increased and internationalisation shall also be increased. The reform focuses on degree structures, closer follow-up of students, new examination and evaluation reforms, new study support schemes and increased internationalisation. The quality reform in higher education is supposed to be an answer to how we get better throughflows and more completed courses of study. The forthcoming evaluation of the quality reform will be interesting. I look forward to a broad discussion, where we see whether the results of the goals we set have been successful, and where the flow will also be an important topic. I believe it is important that as many students as possible complete the studies in normal time. That has to be our common highest goal. That is why the Christian People's Party is also positive about measures that can make this more possible. But I want to underline the ‘normative time’. We're going to introduce that, and we already have systems to do that today. As representatives before me have said, some studies will be impossible to provide. If you're never that fast in receiving knowledge, it won't be an alternative. Nor does it have any value in the Christian People's Party's opinion to add to a championship in who is able to score the most, or who is the fastest to get through, for example. medical study. We do not want that in the Christian People's Party. We also share the concern of the SV representative that perhaps there are some people who need incentives to get through faster and complete in a normal time. This is also what we are going to do in the evaluation to have extra attention on the part of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party wants graduates who in their studies have learned to attract more sources, which are critical of the knowledge that exists and who are curious to acquire new and different knowledge than what the menu from the study site serves. We want to study that gives time for reflection and not least maturity to the individual, and we therefore do not support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e192	It is also a pleasure for me to be allowed to welcome a new state council. It's a pleasure to see Tora Aasland in the hall. We look forward to a good and pleasant cooperation. In this document that we are dealing with now, there is largely consensus. It's the Progress Party against Smoke - to use a maybe unparliamentary expression. So they want to increase the grant rate for students who take more credits than normal. It is clear that effective students are important for the places of study, for the students and for society. Nevertheless, you can put some question marks on this. Before the quality reform, Norwegian students averaged more than half of the normal weights each year. There are now indications that this has improved somewhat since the implementation of the Quality Reform and the revision of the study funding model. But there are many students who score fewer credits than expected. Follow-up is important for students, but not least in a socio-economic context. The centre party, like others here, believes that it is important that the study funding system stimulates the placement of study credits, but at the same time this must be in a good way. That must be in line with quality. Quantity doesn't hold here. This would mean that the incentives should not be so strong that circumvention, adaptation and the study credits themselves come into focus instead of the most important thing, namely the content of the education, which is knowledge. Knowledge has to be digested – if I can use that expression. We need time. A joint committee has stressed that there is no need to lose sight of the educational perspective. It's important. The idea that maturity is also an important factor in the study should not be forgotten. It cannot just be the time perspective being pushed forward. I would also like to refer to the evaluation of the quality reform. This message wants e.g. discuss the study funding scheme in higher education. But it's necessary to look at the whole system. We look forward to the big news about the quality reform and are willing to look at it with new eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e208	The left greets the Council of State in two ways. Firstly, we are pleased that Norway has received a minister for research and higher education. For the Left, this is the fastest meeting of any programme requirement from our side in relation to the current government. I'm just noticing that from the Great Britain's pulpit. Secondly, of course, I would like to welcome the Council of State to debate, conflict and form a conversation with the Stortinget. So to the matter: I know that the Progress Party might be somewhat concerned that students don't have enough to do. Then left, because of the expectations we have of what we're going to add to higher education and from the idea of general education, the view is that maybe we should reinforce the requirements of the curriculum. It is possible that when you have 1 000 pages in your syllabus, there are 2 000 pages too small – when you are first concerned with what the Quality Reform involves, that you have to meet both a subject, a study progress, and that you have to bring with you a general education. If it turns out that in the reforms we have now done, both with ex.phil. with the bachelor's degree, with the master's degree and the doctor's degree, just lost something, the left will reserve the right to come back to this, in the form of what is necessary to strengthen the conditions of general education. It's like when you, for example, reading the New York Times, you'll see that Harvard now for the first time in its history has got a female principal. Harvard's female principal gives a straight-out statement, with Harvard as a background -- it's almost like a rewrite of Humboldt today -- that you have to know what you can do, and you have to do it in a real way. You have to bring that with you. If you go on in the New York Times, you'll see that Harvard now has a nuclear curriculum that they define as a necessity for all the educational pathways they have. In other words, they have strengthened the requirements for education in a general sense. I'm going to leave these comments because it has something to do with how the Left will approach the debate that follows the document we get to the Stortingen on the evaluation of the Quality Reform for Higher Education, where we will not only look at the progress of studies and the way they get through, but also at the subjects and conditions of generalisation in such a context. At all meetings that the Ministry has had for all those in higher education, including us in the trade committee, at Bristol, two years in a row have been presented without evaluation of the Norwegian education system. The first year, diversity was said to be good, hold on to it. In the second year, the representative of the OECD, against whom he usually did not make demands for study money, expressed a very strong desire to streamline and clear career guidance. The background, of course, is something that is also under today's debate, that we are sure that those who start a course of study will receive as good guidance as possible, so that it will be effective time use. Of course, everyone deserves it. With regard to the proposal today, we simply disagree. We believe that the standards we have are true. You have to go through a course of study for a certain period of time. For our part, we would rather assess whether the requirements are sufficient, whether we are good enough in the quality requirements we impose on educational institutions. We believe that at the intersection of efficiency and generalisation, the norms that have been made are serious. It also gives a reward in the sense that if you don't make it, you get a penalty, and if you do it, you keep your scholarship points. So, of course, this debate on higher education is also related to a topic that is not the topic here today, but I think it's right to mention it. It is that it will be demanding to pursue good and quality higher education in accordance with the ideals of the Quality Reform while ensuring good research, whose higher education and research institutions are underfunded. It's a theme that this hall will have plenty of opportunity to come back to. However, it is also essential to be able to have both a study progress with efficiency and a general education perspective. We are part of the Committee's majority, and we also await with excitement the big message that comes about the evaluation of the Quality Reform for Higher Education. I think it has been right in this post to give some signals from our side. I would like to recommend my co-representatives to read the newly appointed rector of Harvard's inaugural words about his role. That's the swing. It swings in a line from Humboldt via Mjøs and far into the future, and it shines off. It is not an isolated ivory tower, but it is critical knowledge that can be used both to build democracy and to secure both living and unborn business.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e227	An important objective of the Quality Reform was to promote study progress, to get students to study at a normal time. At the same time, the aim was to strengthen the quality and education aspect. Changes in study funding, including, inter alia: the increase in basic support from the Loan Fund and the introduction of the Conversion Facility were one of the instruments of the Quality Reform. The conversion scheme means that loans are converted into grants on the basis of education completed. The aim was to facilitate full-time studies, thereby increasing the proportion of students conducting the studies at a normal time. I agree with the Committee that it is important, both from a socio-economic point of view and from the perspective of the individual student, that the studies are carried out in a normal time. But quality still has to be an overall goal for all higher education. I notice that the committee shares this view. There have also been articles here that have been underlined by several people. The active substances, such as: The study funding must be coordinated in order to stimulate both implementation and quality. And that could be a difficult balance. But a reward scheme for students who score more credits than normal, as I see it, will easily lead to more attention to quantity than to quality. Today, there is a considerable degree of flexibility for students. If the student is late, loans are turned into scholarships for the exams that you actually pass. If the delay is repeated later, by making more credits than normal, a full conversion from a loan to a scholarship for the semester for which the student has not previously received a change is given. If you take an extra course, the Loan Fund will register the student credits that are being taken, and this may compensate for the lack of results later. In the event of delays, the student has the opportunity to convert loans into scholarships up to eight years after the loan was taken up. As others have pointed out, the Government will launch a more comprehensive debate, including on the study funding schemes, in the context of a relatively short time-frame for the presentation of the Quality Reform Assessment paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e243	The intention of the Quality Reform was to get more students to take more points of study per year. year of study, and the premise was a wish for major progress in studies and thus a faster flow in higher education. Against this background, economic incentives were introduced in order to achieve such an objective. In its comments to the Committee on the proposal of the Progress Party to further reward students with a higher degree of study than normal, the Council of State states that it could contribute to an increased focus on quantity rather than quality – a view that the government parties are also prejudicial to. So my question is, where does the state council mean the limit goes? How many credits can a student actually take per. years before, in the opinion of the Council of State, the quality of the studies is affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e252	It is absolutely impossible to give an exact answer to that question. What matters to the Government in terms of the arrangements that are in the Loan Fund today, which we believe are quite flexible, is perhaps primarily to help students who are not able to do it in a normal time. If a lot of forces are going to agree to give extra impetus to those who really need to do it quickly, we believe, as I said from the pulpit, that it can go beyond quality. But it's completely impossible to draw a limit on the relationship between quality and quantity -- it's not measurable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e259	Governments also have a background from the Mjøs Committee, which added to the quality reform of higher education that is now being introduced. I noticed that in its introduction, the Council of State said that quality is an overall goal. Then I want to draw attention to a slightly different aspect of this with progress and implementation, namely that the evaluation of the Quality Reform shows that students have very little opportunity to do professional deep dives outside what is set up as a syllabus. Many students say that this is because there is too little time and opportunity for the depressions that they really want. As the Council of State also says, it is important to reconcile the balance between flow and quality. I would like the Council of State to elaborate a little bit on how to take care of the perspective of greater professional immersion while at the same time being able to maintain a progress and perhaps even implement it more quickly than is normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e266	I look forward to discussing this with both the committee's chairman and the committee, and not least the universities and the students themselves, because I see it as a very important challenge to be able to stimulate an extra professional depression while not losing sight of one's own study progress. There is also no phased response to this, but the question is important, and I want to take that question and the issue with me in the further work on both the evaluation and follow-up of the quality reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e271	The Council of State referred to the conversion scheme and went through it quite carefully in its article. It's like today that we sort of reward those who are on the test. The representative, Elvik, also expressed concern for those who are not, and whether or not there are those who are now falling through. That concern also shares the Christian People's Party. My question is really whether the Council of State and the Government will also include this group in the evaluation of the Quality Reform and look at what is behind the failure. Are there also psychosocial causes? Are you a baby's parents? How does all of this work? What makes you get punished in that context? Will this be part of the evaluation of the Government's participation in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e282	It's also an important question. As I said in my post, today's system is primarily established to help those who today are unable to stay within the normal study period. But there will be plenty of opportunity, compared with the evaluation reports that we have as the basis for the big news, to address precisely those who may need a little extra help, support and guidance to get it done in a normal time. So I'll promise the representative that this will be possible to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e287	Professionals at the University of Oslo tell me that students like to meet more demands than what's in the curriculum, but they also tell me that then we have to face the students. This is the background that I am now asking the question I am asking. I refer to what I said in my post, where I took the views of the OECD. With the education system we have in Norway, where we choose not to have school money – which many other countries choose to have, but we have a tradition where we should not have it – the OECD has advised us that, in order to ensure throughflow, efficiency, we should make the career guidance very good, so to speak. Have the Council of State considered how such career guidance can be appropriately raised and strengthened in relation to what we are now discussing, namely higher education through colleges and universities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e294	My goal for the follow-up to the quality reform is that we should also create room to be able to guide students in a good way. I know that part of the scientific staff feels a bit skewed by the fact that there are strong demands. I believe that demands should be made – not least in order to carry out the studies – but I am very concerned about getting a good debate and a good discussion on how to combine student guidance and, if necessary, research in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e300	The Council of State stated that it was impossible to give an exact figure on how many points of study you could do before it was at the expense of quality. Nevertheless, one might well say that there is now a number, which is 30 points of study each semester. The Council of State itself explained the scheme in which students who do not carry out normal time can complete several credits in the following semester and later and have the loans converted. Why does the Council of State not then want to stimulate students who are still able to do this at a normal time to have the same opportunity? And another question: the Council of State has claimed that it is that by conducting multiple points of study, one reduces the quality of higher education. What evidence does the Council of State have of such a claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e305	Once again, I would just like to refer to the assessments that I have made in response to the proposal by the representatives. Incentives to increased study progress will primarily be exercised by this government against those who do not currently pass the normal study time. And we believe that the system that is in place, with the flexibility that lies in it, is good enough to provide the stimulus that is needed. So my answer is that I am currently satisfied with today's arrangement, but I look forward, of course, to discussing any documented weaknesses that might arise. For the time being, there is nothing to suggest it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e310	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e315	I've followed the debate, and I feel that sometimes Norwegian students are a little different than other European students. It must be possible to have several thoughts in your head at once – both quality, formation and increased progress. And it must be possible to have high goals to reach for. The committee was at Kastelet school yesterday. Most people will remember that the principal just pointed out that one of the most important reasons for their success at school was that they set targets higher than they could really expect. And in other countries – what are they doing there? In Germany, for example, students who are able to complete in less than normal time receive converted loans into scholarships. If they're able to do their exam with distinction, they also convert money from loans to scholarships. They have additional arrangements, such as: that if the students take courses that they might want more students to take, the same is true – they can achieve a higher degree. In this way, a management can control education in the direction and in the groups that one wants, both for future researchers and for others taking the subjects. It is also the case that when you have completed your studies, the loan is taken over after you have received a job. Thus, the state will convert money from loans to scholarships again. I think it's very important that we look at what you do in other countries. Norway cannot sit on its own small island and believe that everything is about this. Norwegian students must adapt to an international market when they are going out and competing. Setting demands and setting high targets are some of the most important things we can do. Finally, I will not believe that, for example. German students have less education than Norwegian students, although they have a higher degree of study progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e326	I would first like to thank the Council of State for confirming that it is not empirical material that should document claims that have come from several representatives of this interlocutors today, namely that increasing study progress automatically leads to a reduction in the quality of the studies. So there's no evidence that that's the case. It's pure vision, and it's based on a lack of trust in the students. The representative Huitfeldt went quite far, I think, when she said that increased study progress promotes mediocrity. So with that, she indicates that the ten percent at the universities that currently score more credits than normal, and the 18 percent at the scientific colleges that do that, are mediocre students. I think that is a rather drastic claim made by the representative Huitfeldt. Then I also register that Huitfeldt is categorical: this is a bad suggestion. I record that the representative Enger is open to – and that is also the Council of State, and I am pleased – to look at this with new eyes during the evaluation of the Quality Reform. I hope it is the Council of State and the representative, Mr Enger, who is winning, and not the representative, Mr Huitfeldt. The reason I took the floor was that I was a little surprised by the intervention of the representative Elvik from this pulpit. She was able to say that she was surprised that the Progress Party used energy on this matter and not that disabled people feel that they have more difficult study conditions now than before the Quality Reform. I don't know what it's like in SV, but in the Progress Party, we can have a broader educational policy focus than on just one thing. Therefore, the commitment of the Progress Party to study policy is very broad and important. Of course, we will support an initiative from SV when it comes, to improve the situation and conditions of disabled students at universities and colleges. I'm waiting for an initiative from the Socialist Left on this, and we're going to be there. I fear that we must wait a long time. The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, was interested in something more, namely that the most important thing is to help those who are unable to cope with the study to get through the study. The Progress Party also agrees. But it's not like there's a difference between helping students who are unable to follow normal study progress, and stimulating those who are able to follow a faster study progress. Here it's also about having two thoughts in your head at once. That is a good thing for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e337	The representative of Anundsen's most striking debate-trix is to represent what the opponent has said from the Parliament's pulpit. I have not at all come up with the characteristics of students who progress faster and score more credits than is required. What's our point is that with the system proposed by the Progress Party, you'll get more money if you take two exams with the worst character in front of one exam with a top character. There are many subjects in universities and colleges that have overlapping syllabus. If you are going to take two courses of overlapping and get the worst grade, you should get much more money than if you take one of the subjects of high quality and depression with the best quality, it promotes mediocrity in my opinion. It does not promote the best, it does not promote professional depression. That is why we are against the proposals of the Progress Party, which rewards quantity and not quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 313]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e358	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e367	There will be many welcome greetings to the new Council of State, and I will join them. The representatives of Anders Anundsen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and Åse Schmidt from the Progress Party have in Document No. 8:96 for 2006-2007 proposed removing the distinction between residents and home-dwelling students in relation to student funding and gradually increasing the limits on the amount of income and wealth of students before reducing the grant rate. With regard to removing the distinction between resident and resident students, the Committee considers, with the exception of the Progress Party, that it is not desirable to support the proposals of the Progress Party. Many may argue that at some point young people should leave home anyway. But the key argument is that there is a long tradition that education aid should compensate for the costs of having to leave home to take up education. The motivation and cause of the scholarship share is on the part of society to provide equal opportunities for education. In our long-term country, many people have to leave home in order to receive secondary education as well as higher education. It is this economic extra burden for the residents' allowance to compensate for. Of course, the entire committee sees it as very problematic if students cheat the State's loan fund, as suggested in the document, by operating with fictional addresses to trigger outlaw grants. However, there is no strong argument in itself to settle the distinction between living and living students. On the other hand, there is an argument for tightening up the procedures and finding appropriate measures to detect such fraud, and it is important that the legitimacy of the system should not be impaired. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, is also of the opinion that it makes sense to have a ceiling on the amount of income a student may have before it results in a reduction in the proportion of the scholarship. In this context, I again find reason to recall that the motivation for education support is to give everyone equal opportunities to take education regardless of social and economic background. Gradually raising the thresholds would mean gradually leaving this principle for the benefit of all. The majority are of the opinion that it is both reasonable and necessary to have an upper limit on how much a student can earn, before it would result in a curtailment in the state support of the grant proportion. In addition, income limits are up to treatment with the State budget each year. The size therefore regularly addresses the level at which these limits are to be set. With regard to the student's wealth limit relative to the reduced grant rate, a minority from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Government are asking to consider removing the need test of educational support against wealth. There may be many reasons why young people have wealth. For many, it means that you have lost one or both dependants and inherited them. The person in such a situation has already lost much of his main network, and the legacy he has received as a result of it should provide security, not be a disadvantage. Often, such property consists of real estate or other property that cannot be realised or yields direct returns. However, the removal of investment limits may also clearly make it possible for young people who have inherited assets without any previous tragedy to become eligible. To the extent that this wealth does not generate an income that limits the grant rate through the income constraints, removing the need test would have an unintended effect. Of course, these parties do not want any change in the principle that education support is motivated by the desire to create equal opportunities for education regardless of social and economic background. However, it costs to maintain an application and control system in order to avoid this particular situation. The cost is probably much higher than the grant amount that will be paid. We're sorry, therefore, that the majority wouldn't go into the issues that this opens up to. The same minority is committed to ensuring the ability of the entire student group to pursue higher education, including in private institutions. The Bondevik II government therefore raised the limits of these students, precisely in order to give everyone a real right to freedom of choice within higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e388	I will also join those who wish the Council of State to welcome. I'm sure we'll have a good cooperation. The development of prosperity in Norwegian society is formidable if we see developments over a few decades. A challenge in this regard has been and is to ensure that everyone gets involved in development, regardless of sex, age, residence, economic and social conditions. The development of higher education has contributed greatly to economic and social cohesion in our country. Among other things, the establishment of district colleges, later state colleges and the opening up of universities to more have helped to make higher education easier. However, the most important factors in addition to increased availability are the free principle of higher education in Norway and a generous study funding scheme. The study funding, as we know it today, has, in the view of the Workers' Party, a good distribution policy profile. One takes into account that it costs to establish itself outside the childhood home and move far away from home. That's how we make it possible for a girl from the Lierne in the Nord-Trøndelag to take higher education on the same lines as a boy from Oslo. Because it costs to establish itself far away from home. In addition to start-up costs and housing and study costs, there are also expensive return trips for some students to be financed. There are students who study near the childhood home in the first place, even if they choose to leave home. We think there should be a difference between those who live at home during the study period and those who establish themselves for themselves. It's not going to get away from the fact that it's economically beneficial for most people to live at home with their parents. It is also to have a fortune, even if the property is related to real estate and cannot go to consumption during the study period. But for most people, a fortune will be a good one when you're going to be settled after your studies have ended. The vast majority of students today work alongside the studies. There may always be room to discuss whether what is given in loans and scholarships is sufficient to be a full-time student. But it's natural to set limits on how much a student can earn to obtain loans and scholarships. Most people probably need to spend most of their time on studies to achieve good progress in their studies and to complete the study in normal time. It is therefore natural to distinguish whether one is the most student or the most employee, and there is a good indicator of income. If someone has income from sources other than work, it is also true that there will be curtailment in loans and scholarships. This must be the case in a country where a solidarity policy is pursued, where the community helps everyone to have opportunities, regardless of their economic and social background, to take higher education if they want to and are motivated by it. I would like to express my concern at the allegations of fraud made in the motion for a resolution by the Progressive Party. There is a reference to a reference in a student newspaper that students who live at home create fictional addresses to receive scholarships. If this is true, it's very serious, because it helps undermine a very good and rough system for those who want to study in Norway. To trick the community for its own gain tastes bad. I hope this is not widespread, and if it is, we need to get control procedures, so that the kind of fraud can't be done. I hope we can get the student organisations with us too, so that it is cleaned up in that kind of relationship. The Community cannot tolerate the destruction of the good we have, which contributes so much to economic and social cohesion, because some people think it is too good to cheat. In any case, there is no need to change the study funding scheme in order for them to become law-abiding. In the autumn, the State Councils for Higher Education and Research will present a key message in the light of the evaluation of the Quality Reform. The study funding scheme will also be the subject of discussion. Weaknesses in this system are also likely to require a review and any change. I assume that there is an overall opposition in the matter today, as well as being taken up for discussion in that context. We can then look at the consequences of changing the system so that it captures very special cases, such as: where loss of parents in an accident results in a student's wealth and thus in a curtailment of loans and scholarships.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e409	The Progress Party believes that training young people is a social asset. It is important to facilitate access to higher education for all, but also to ensure that the public contribution to the individual student is as equal as possible. In this proposal for a representative, the Progress Party presents three concrete proposals which will contribute to increased equal treatment of students in relation to the public support given directly to the student in the form of loans and scholarships. Firstly, the Progress Party will remove the distinction between living and living students. That is the proposal that will have the greatest impact on most students. Today, students living at home are discriminated against by the fact that they do not have the opportunity to receive an education scholarship. It happens despite the fact that many of these students have to pay to live at home, and often as much as students who live outside their parents' home. Experience in some higher education environments shows that this unfair practice leads some students to cheat on scholarships by pretending to live outside the home of their parents. The Progress Party believes that the public support system for students is tending to have such outcomes. The second proposal is to gradually increase the income limits for what students can earn before the grant rate is reduced. It is almost clear from both the rapporteur and the previous speaker that we must remove all restrictions on income. So the proposal is that we should gradually increase. The Progress Party has as its starting point that everyone with a high working capacity should be rewarded, not punished. As long as a student is able to conduct the study in normal time, we don't think it's interesting what the student does. Although the Progress Party will facilitate the possibility for students to be full-time students, we believe that there are positive instruments that must be used to achieve this, not shortening the grant rate simply because of work in addition to the studies. The social value of individual higher education is not reduced by the student working alongside the studies. In fact, social economy is very profitable. I will also refer to the debate we had in the previous case, where the Progress Party will reward students who have the capacity to take more study credits than normal in a semester. In this way, we will stimulate the student for increased efforts, not punishment. The same argument may be used in this case. The third proposal is to raise the threshold of how much a student can have in fortune before the scholarship is reduced. I am a little surprised that the Committee does not agree with this proposal. It is pointless to use wealth as a limiting factor in the award of scholarships. There may be a number of reasons why students have wealth, and the margin of wealth is very low today. The rapporteur also explained that there may be many reasons, including tragedy, for students to have wealth. It's strange that we're going to run some kind of active punishment through the grant scheme to students who've been through that sort of thing. Unlike the rapporteur, we in the Progress Party believe that there should be no distinction between the reasons why a person has assets. We believe that the limits of wealth in themselves are meaningless. In the setting, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party will intervene properly in order for the Government to consider the removal of wealth as a basis for testing the need for training support. That they cannot support proposal No. Three, it seems very strange. There is little experience in collecting parts of the opposition in a note. So the reference from the three parties in the note is ineffective, unless one goes for the proposals of the Progress Party. It would seem quite odd that the three parties consider something that goes beyond the proposal in the notes, and at the same time opposes the proposal of the Progress Party to raise the investment threshold gradually. I would ask that the three parties review this and assess whether there is no room for supporting proposal No. 3 from the Progress Party. The Committee has also made a general remark that the study funding scheme is to be assessed in the context of the quality reform evaluation. That's good. Since it does not seem to be a majority for any of the excellent proposals of the Progress Party in this round, I expect them to be assessed in the evaluation of the Quality Reform, in line with what I believe is possible in the majority opinion. I will allow myself to ask the Council of State in its statement later today to confirm that this is the case. Finally, I would like to mention the three proposals put forward by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e432	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e435	This proposal for a representative intervenes in a discussion which is essentially about equal rights to education. I am pleased that the Council of State, both in letters to the Committee and to the extent in the previous case, shows that this is a topic to which we come back in a larger context in the context of the Quality Reform Assessment paper. Taking out individual elements of the study support in the way one does in the representative proposal is, in my opinion, a mistake. An argument for that is, among other things, one must consider the costs of what the Progress Party is proposing today. The goal of non-discrimination between home-building and out-building students is to have a full-year effect of 300 million. kr. In order to completely eliminate the shortening of study aid to income and wealth, the Council of State states in its letter to the Committee that it is 590 million. kr, which is truncated today, and one must wait for the number to be even higher if one removes the limit because more people want to search. So I hear the Progress Party says one will have a gradual increase. But anyway, there's a lot of money being moved that way. So the question is, do we move the money the right way? SV believes that the system as it is set up today, among other things. by the fact that distance students have better arrangements than home builders are correct. We mean that there should be a curtailment of scholarships for employee income. This is about equal rights to education, and then we have to have a system that is a fine mask. I am glad that we will be allowed to look at it in connection with the Storing Message. I think that Stortinget will be a much better context to discuss the matter than a proposal, where the Progress Party has drawn out some elements and, in fact, it does not see it in the correct context, according to SV's opinion. Since we got into government, there's an indexed study support every year. It should be a self-evident thing, but we know that it hasn't been obvious before. The students are aware of this, and I am pleased that the students say that this is an important requirement from the students who are being met. Since we joined the government, we have stepped up again the construction of student buildings, after the previous government stepped this down. There are two things that require priority. It's a lot of money. Society spends a lot of money on good schemes that provide equal rights to education, but it shows an active priority from this government's side. There are measures that we in the SV are pleased about, and we are of course working further, so that these schemes should be even better. Even more housing shall be built, for example, so that one has a real equal right to education. That's what the seventh and last thing is about, and the proposals from the Progress Party are not in line with that purpose, seen from the SV's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e446	First of all, I think it may be in place for once to say some positive words to the Progress Party for a draft representative. I find it exciting that someone dares to think new and different, also in this field. But then I have to hurry to say that I quite disagree with the conclusions of the Progress Party on this matter. However, it is exciting to have a discussion about a theme that I think might be worth mentioning. Let me start with what we're in the vicinity of agreeing to, that's to look at the limit of how much wealth a student can have before the scholarship is reduced. As many people have said here today, there may be many different reasons why a student has wealth. One reason, which I have also heard examples of myself, is that one has lost one or both parents, and is therefore in the possession of wealth. These students are basically in a challenging and difficult situation as they have lost the very closest. The heir then gets may consist of a house, a family cabin and so on, which in many cases will not give a direct and accessible return. Such an inheritance should first of all give them security and not be a disadvantage, something for which to be punished. There may be an extra load on an e.g. appears to have to sell the house to get the ends to meet. I therefore hoped that the government parties would participate and consider removing wealth as a basis for testing the need for training support. However, I believe that this should be taken into account in the evaluation of the quality reform, and not in part. If one is afraid of capitalists, I will reassure him that if the wealth yields, it will be counted as income and thus captured by the existing limits of the amount of income. With regard to the proposal to eliminate the distinction between living and living students, the Christian People's Party opposes it. I believe it is a strength and an important principle of today's education support system that it should compensate for the costs of having to leave the home to take up education. It is also a good regional policy measure because it gives young people who do not have higher education institutions at their place of residence an opportunity to still take higher education. Finally, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important to bet on the full-time student. I think we get better results at the other end if the students have the opportunity to get really involved in the material they're going to learn. It has a self-esteem for the individual student, but it also has a value for society to have well-qualified and skilled workers. Therefore, we believe that we need to have a study funding that allows us to study. It is also one of the reasons why we have implemented the Quality Reform in higher education, and I look forward to the discussion – which is also mentioned earlier today – that we are going to have in the wake of the evaluation of the Quality Reform. It will be able to answer what steps we need to take to allow students to study full-time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e457	It is important to facilitate the situation in such a way that everyone can be entitled to equal education. And it has already been mentioned a number of times today that the free principle and good study funding are the principle of which there is a cross-political agreement. It implies that all qualified persons are given the opportunity to take higher education, regardless of their social and economic background. The main means of achieving the objective of enabling everyone to study is the study funding schemes. It's nice that there's cross-political agreement about it, and I can almost say, "It should just be missing." In this case, the Progress Party wants to erase the distinction between residents and residents. The center part is similar to the other parts disagree with this. Education support should precisely strengthen the economy of those who have to move from home. I can only mention strings like furniture, food and trips home. It costs extra to stay away. And we have to be aware that very many in our vast country have no real opportunity to choose whether to live at home or away. They depend on moving on furniture, maybe in the earliest team many times, to get the education that they want. That's why it's important that we keep this distinction, so that the locals get a advantage at least when it comes to economics. It should be said that the Progress Party presents ‘good’ examples that show that it is cheating with home and away housing. I do not doubt that what the Advancement Party brings here leads to correctness, and that is very serious. Bullying can never be accepted, and it must be a task for student organisations to address this, and not look through their fingers with such things. Then, of course, they first have to familiarize themselves with it. In addition, the loan fund has to go through the procedures to prevent us from getting such an outcome. It is also the responsibility of the Committee to ask the Ministry to review legislation and procedures in order to ensure that the intention of the grant scheme is properly and properly respected. Then there's an upper limit on student income before curtailment of loans and scholarships. The center party thinks that's right. The amount can always be discussed. Anyone who has had kids in studies and jobs at the same time knows that that amount will always feel too little. But it's true, as Gundersen said, this is treated regularly, and it changes regularly. I think it's being treated correctly. In a letter to the Committee, former State Council Djupedal writes that the full liquidation of the need-to-income test is likely to result in more and more high-income students applying for scholarships. I quote from the letter: ‘I consider it reasonable that students with relatively good income finance the education itself to a greater extent, without the same contribution from the country as persons with little or no income.’ I agree. The main point of the support must be that everyone should be able to take education, and it is a valuable principle to hold on to. As far as wealth is concerned, the matter is different. There may be many reasons why students have wealth. These include: mentioned sad things here, as one may have lost one of their parents. It's not that all of the wealth is yielding. Therefore, consideration may be given to the need for testing in this respect. A minority in the Committee then also asks the Government to assess whether wealth should be removed as a basis for testing training aid needs. As far as quality reform is concerned, evaluation will be carried out after Christmas, and then, as is well known, the study funding scheme will be an important part. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e479	I'm in a mental exercise right now, which is: how do you sharpen the rhetoric without being clubbed by the president? So as a pre-post-fection to this exercise, I would say that what I am about to say to the articles of the Progress Party does not have metaphors from the animal kingdom. It's neither from the state of mind you're in when you're in the mountain looking for your sheep and having peace of mind, nor the turmoil you have when you can see headless chickens running around the world. It is simply taken from the normal social debate, where you agree and disagree with each other in a clear and straightforward way. More will follow later, in later articles. So to the matter. The left is simply in disagreement with removing the proposal on the distinction between resident and resident, so that is what we are voting against. We believe in income limits, that it costs so much money that we don't have money for that. Since we are going to give real priority to the crowns within budgets – and we are also going to do that as an opposition party – we must give priority to our crowns, and we choose to use them for other purposes. With regard to the third matter raised by the Progress Party, the Left, together with the Right and the Christian People's Party, has chosen not to vote in favour of the proposal, because we have perceived it this way, which was also expressed in previous articles, that here there is actually a willingness to go into the issue and not just reject it. Just to make a contribution to it: we live as we know it in a society where, after World War II, there was a broad, expressed will in Norway that everyone should own their own home. It's a Norwegian line. That line leads very quickly to being a man of fortune as a young person. I guess it's not supposed that because we've built up a community good in our country, which was thus defined as part of an historic joint program, it's going to have some ricochets long after. The Left considers that the Progress Party has pointed to many important points, and we also believe that the rapporteur has done so. Obviously, if you get an inheritance, as many people have pointed out, it can be an inheritance that you can't take any benefit from. If you get it in terms of money, income, you get the income limit. So we mean very strongly, as we have written with two other parties, and as the representative, Mr Enger, also now stated that this should be assessed. We don't think it makes sense to look at wealth, because wealth in this context isn't particularly ultra-rich opportunities to speculate in anything, but it's the possibility of a broad normality in a Norwegian society. That normality should be handled on the basis that, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the Left, we should acknowledge our historical heritage. On this basis, the Left considers that there is every reason to look at the property limits, and also let them fall away, linked to scholarships. Then the Progress Party should be commended for pointing out in this case that there are people who cheat on principles. Unfortunately, there is always an opportunity for that. Legislation is based on the fact that the overwhelming majority is real. But there are always some people who are trying to get away from it, and so the Left thinks it's important, just like other parties in the committee, that where we know the possibilities of cheating and cheating, we get to knock it down the way it is, on the simple principle that we should honor law enforcement, and violation of the law and cheating with the law, we're going to react to whoever's doing it. It starts, for example. that someone is trying to sneak on the trick, as someone at a school in Oslo did a few years ago. Then it's like when you're in school for the Left Party, you take a hard-assed settlement with those who try to sneak on the trick. And then you get some applause for it, because it's not like being paid for. That's the way to say that cheating is really undermining for others, because that's what it is. For example, you cheat. With scholarship schemes, you steal from others. That's what's the popular and direct way of expressing itself. You're supplied with the cash register, which hits others. And then it should be described that way. On that point, the Committee, also aroused by the proposals of the Progress Party, has agreed that there will be a response to the cases known. I would like to end this article by encouraging the Council of State to look specifically at the limits of wealth and the situation, because I think we have a situation in Norway that makes it well justified to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e492	I would like to comment on the three proposals that have been made in the proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party. In Norway, there is a long tradition of coherence between education support and the costs of leaving home to take up education. This has not least been an important consideration of regional policy. Today’s scheme means that residents and residents receive the same amount of support, so that residents receive the full support as loans. The exemption from interest on the loan in the course of training is a substantial State subsidy. The exemption from interest is also granted to residents. Students living at home and living away will normally have different housing costs, which have been covered by several representatives. On the basis of that assessment, it is reasonable not to grant the same aid. I see that the majority of the committee shares this view. The Committee is concerned about the claim that students deliberately circumvent the rules for the award of scholarships. This is something that the Ministry follows closely in the management of the study funding. Counteracting fraud is a prerequisite for confidence in the Loan Fund. As regards the need-to-income testing, it is a fundamental principle of the training support schemes to contribute to equal opportunities for education, irrespective of geographical conditions, age, sex, serviceability and economic and social conditions. The development of support schemes has been assessed in such a way that persons with a good personal economy less than those with a weak personal economy need public support to carry out education. This is the background to the fact that need testing has a central place in the grant allocation of the aid schemes. Loan allocations are made without need testing for applicants in higher education, so that the liquidity of the students is not affected by the need test. It is not unreasonable for students with relatively good income to finance the education themselves to a greater extent, without the same contributions from the country as persons with little or no income. I see that the majority of the committee shares this view, and I also note that there is a manifest political disagreement here. For the purpose of testing for needs against wealth, this need test also has its background in the objectives of the training aid scheme, namely to help everyone to take training, irrespective of, inter alia, economic situation. The starting point is that persons with some large wealth greater than persons with low or no wealth can finance the education itself. The need to test educational scholarships and wealth-based dependants has also been an important policy instrument for distribution. However, I understand that the rules of some can be perceived unfairly. I am listening to what is being said here, and will of course be open to discussing the consequences of societal changes in this relationship. We can probably get a chance to get back to that. Although wealth does not necessarily increase liquidity, people with wealth will, for example: be stronger in an establishment phase after the study period. The loan allocation is made without need testing for applicants in higher education, so that the liquidity of the students is not affected by the need test. It is important for me to stress that capital income, i.e. interest and dividends, is not tested as necessary. Only personal income, i.e. labour income and any social security benefits, are need-tested. Finally, I would like to stress that the Government will of course have included the assessment of study funding in the announcement on the evaluation of the Quality Reform. It will then be ample opportunity to come back to this in a slightly more comprehensive perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e530	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on its position. We have great expectations, so this is going to be exciting. But then to the matter. The media have found that public losses amount to about 40 million. kr annually on unlawfully awarded a residence grant. Some of this is due to deliberate fraud, and in 2006 15 persons were reported for this. The loan box has only the ability to take random samples to detect the fraud. Students report that they experience the Loan Bank code that swirled out the wording and the transparency, and even those who work in the Loan Fund have problems understanding the regulations. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What will the Council of State do with this? Will she strengthen the number of case handlers in the Loan Fund and thus improve the ability to control, will she simplify the rules of the Loan Fund and make it more understandable, or will she maintain today's system, which invites fraud and also discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e539	I have two points in my reply to the representative. The first is that, as I said, we will follow closely in fraud. It's not to be cheated. It doesn't help to build trust in either the Loan Fund or our systems, so the department and I will follow closely. In terms of language problems, problems in understanding the case documents or regulations from the Loan Fund because of difficult language, I think it is important to raise the issue in order to understand the language and to communicate the rules we have in an understandable way. So I notice that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e546	When the case rapporteur and the minority chose the wording we made about wealth, it was to invite a review of the issue at a completely different level than just raising the boundaries, because we do that every year in the state budget. Now I have noticed that representatives from the majority and also the Council of State have said that they are aware that there are many reasons why you have wealth. So I really just want to ask if such an evaluation and assessment comes back when the quality reform is to be evaluated, in the report that Stortinget then gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e553	At least I will ensure that it is fully possible to discuss this in a broader perspective in the context of the Quality Reform Assessment Communication. I have heard carefully what has been said here today, also regarding developments on the property side. However, any evaluation depends on the basis on which it is based, and there is probably a limited basis for this. But, as I said, it will be fully possible to discuss it on a political basis and on the basis of the facts you then have at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e560	The Council of State is naturally somewhat cautious, and I can understand that, after such a short time in the Council of State. However, I would like to follow up on Gundersen’s questions – and be very specific. The council says she'll open up this discussion, and there'll be room for discussion, etc. related to the investment restriction. Will the Council of State itself make sure that in the government's evaluation coming to the Grand Council there will be a concrete assessment of the proposal that the Progress Party has made as proposal No. 3, and the issue concerned related to the restriction of wealth? Will the council itself ensure that she takes this up, and concludes with the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e567	I will ensure that an assessment is made by the Ministry, so that the matter can be discussed by the Stortinget also on the basis of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e572	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e577	Study funding is a key word for ensuring that everyone has the opportunity to take higher education. Although we are not close to it, the free principle should also underpin our tertiary education. It is therefore, in my opinion, a serious problem when it is revealed that the nation is losing around 40 million. kr annually on unlawfully awarded a residence grant. One might ask himself the question of whether today's students have lost all morals, or whether they're so stupid that they don't understand the Borrowing Fund regulations. Or maybe the Loan Fund case handlers are doing everything they can to make trouble for the students? No, I think the students are neither stupid nor moral, and I believe and trust that the bankers do their work in a conscientious manner. I think the problem is complex. In fact, many people feel that the Loan Fund’s legislation is not clear and is not easy to understand. Therefore, it is likely that the loan fund could have strengthened its information work. In my opinion, it is not that difficult to understand in the case of a residence grant. Most people will then realize that you have to live away from your parents or superiors, or that you have to have at least your own household in order to have a claim for a residence grant. There are also some bureaucratic formulations here about houses with more than four housing units, etc., but initially this system should not be misunderstanding. Nevertheless, when we see such widespread abuse, it seems to me that study funding is too poor in general. Study support in this country is below the EU poverty line and below the minimum pension. The demands of the size reform have also led to an increased pressure to complete the studies at a normal time, which limits the individual student’s ability to work with income in addition to the study, if he or she wants to follow normal study progress. It is clear that getting an outreach grant therefore appears to be an attractive way to get more money. When one also knows that the risk of being discovered is relatively small, it almost invites a poor student to cheat a little on the information contained in the application form. The promotion party is in favour of equal support for education for both residents and residents. In our view, such a system will contribute to equal opportunities for education and equal rights. In our view, it will contribute to a more transparent and simpler regulatory framework and it will reduce the need for bureaucracy and control measures to limit fraud. At the same time, this will not least lead to students being tempted to become lawbreakers in order to complete their studies in such a way as the Stortinget and thus society have provided through the Quality Reform. We will see in the Official Journal of Bergen on 17 April: ‘Student fraud is a major problem for us,’ confirms Wenche Merli, head of the Loan Fund. And on. ‘We don’t have a number of abuses of the Loan Fund’s funds.’ This confirms that we have to do something. I would therefore urge the Stortinget to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e606	That's possible the point is already understood, but to the representative Anundsen, who wondered why we couldn't go to raise the limit, when we actually suggest that we consider removing it: every year you treat a government budget, and then you can go in and raise the boundaries. We wanted to raise it to a higher level, where we actually get the basis for assessing to what extent to maintain the need test that applies to wealth, because that situation is quite complex. This is also about how to use available tax resources in a sensible and comprehensible way. We also record that the proceeds of changing something about property taxes are several times less, according to the Council's response letter to the Committee than it is about to start doing something on the income side. So that's quite the reason, and we've got good answers here in the Storting, which means that we can now face a future discussion on that topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e621	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 313]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e637	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e646	I have the pleasure of being the case rapporteur for a Document No. 8 proposals from Erna Solberg, Øyvind Halleraker and Trond Helleland. This proposal is about drawing up an action plan for crossing tracks and other measures to address the capacity crisis for rail freight. The proposal is based on the fact that CargoNet and other freight operators are experiencing a strong interest in transporting more goods by rail and that increased investment is needed if the railway system is to continue to be a market-adapted and successful freight operator in the future. The proposers believe that there is a need for far more crossing tracks of 600 metres in length. They refer to the fact that the Bondevik II government carried out a historic investment on the railways. A grip was taken that has contributed to the growth of freight traffic on Bergensbanen, for example, by around 80 pst. in the last four years, an increase corresponding to nearly 100000 fewer vehicle combinations on the roads per year. years. This is a development that is fully in line with the objectives of the national transport plan, both environmentally and safety-related. The proposers now believe that an action plan is needed for the accelerated deployment of cross-rails and other capacity-enhancing measures, if success is to be continued. In the wording of the proposal for a representative, an overall committee points out that rail capacity problems result in freight operators neither being able to meet market demand nor providing services of sufficient quality. The Committee also refers to the Council's letter of reply, which states that work is under way on action to address capacity problems. Short-term measures will be addressed in the Stortinge in the context of the 2008-2009 State Budget and in the long term in the context of the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2009–2019 by the Stortinge. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, points out that the railway is a rational and environmentally friendly mode of transport and that, by relieving the transport of goods on the road network, the railway contributes to increased safety and safety of road users. The majority believe that it must be an objective that the railway always has the necessary capacity and is in such a state that the demand for both passenger and freight transport can be met with high regularity and punctuality. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have noted the problems associated with the lack of maintenance of the network and the problems it creates for the transport of both freight and passenger traffic. Cancellations and delays have become part of the everyday life of railway dependants. These members welcome information to the Stortinget on how the Railway Agency manages the resources for operation and maintenance. These members refer to the draft representative and believe that the proposed measures in the state budget for crossing tracks are not very close enough to meet the need for increased capacity. These members consider it important to speed up the capacity of goods, as this is an environmentally friendly and rational way of transporting goods, while reducing the need for road transport. Finally, I expect the various parties to come up with their views and proposals in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e667	We've got a huge increase in traffic lately. It applies both on the road and on the road. In particular, freight traffic is involved. If we compare the first six months of 2007 with the first six months of 2006, there is an increase in freight traffic of approx. 10 pst. Now, fortunately, we're in the situation that there's a desire from business to use the railway. As the case spokesperson had in mind, there is an increase in rail freight traffic. 60 pst. of freight traffic between Oslo and Bergen on the railway, between Oslo and Trondheim 50 pst. and – even longer distances – between Oslo and Bodø 80 pst. It's a lot of bad things that we're now happy with what we've been talking about for so many years, easy getting goods from the way to the track, and then we can't meet the demand. That is why I agree with what the proposers are about here: we need to build crossing tracks, double tracks, and we need to have an increased bet on freight terminals to meet this, both in the short term and in the long term. That's exactly what the government has added. And it is quite natural that such an action plan should remain at home in the context of the annual government budgets and, in the longer term, in the context of the work on the national transport plan. As the Council of State wrote in its letter, the Railway Agency has been asked to draw up such a strategic plan, in cooperation with the carriers in this area. Then one might say when one has seen the 2008 state budget, that this is not enough in relation to the need. But that's what it's possible to do within the limits that you have to stick to. We argued that measures such as the construction of cross-rails and double-track and freight terminal operations have been assessed on the basis that they are the most effective in relation to the resources that you have to deploy in this area. Some double tracks and crossing tracks and freight terminals are built on Ganddal. And in the short and long term there will be a fairly large expansion on Alnabru, which is not only the hub, but perhaps also the bottleneck in a lot of freight traffic here. It's like many of the projects we're running now are going to be a lot more expensive than what was planned. The government has then chosen to implement the projects that you have in progress quickly and efficiently, rather than launching new ones. I think that's a proper strategy. Then it's important, as far as the case-speaker was concerned, that it be built 600 meters long crossing tracks, but it also has to be done according to a plan. It's a little pointless to build a 650-metre-long crossing track on the Dovrebahn, for example, if one doesn't do it the whole way. But then one doesn't get to take advantage of the 600-metre-long train there. Let me, for example. list the freight terminal at Ganddal. He's built for just 600 meters of freight, but it's not the rail network that goes into Ganddal. That's why it's important for you to have a solid foundation, where a rather take the corridor corridor and make it completely complete. Then there is a little focus on the Railway Agency and the operational and maintenance work. It is true that we have increased the rights to operation and maintenance and to the Railway Agency quite a lot in the last two years, and I expect that we will also see the results. Something might be a little bit amazing. I was on a train with CargoNet. From Alnabru and up the Dovre track I sat in the locomotive and experienced the forest standing along the line, which is then not cleared. And as one knows, when the snow comes, this often falls on the line and leads to a breakdown. There's some of these things that I'm a little bit surprised about not being done, based on the extra resources that's here. We're not at the point where one of them is asking the Council of State to come back with a briefing on this, because I expect the Council of State will always be briefing the Council of State on what the Storting needs in this area. One must bear in mind that the railway works wear a worn-out and obsolete infrastructure, both on the signalling system and on the infrastructure, otherwise. But when Borghild Tenden talks about this historic commitment to the Bondevik administration, one of the things we're living with on the problem page today is that they are putting a lot of maintenance work into competition at the Railway Agency. This meant that they lost a lot of competence, and it has been in the process of destroying the railway system's ability to do a good job in this area. That's what we wear today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e695	First of all, I must point out that the President-in-Office of the Council is claiming that the Progress Party does not agree that rail is a rational and environmentally friendly mode of transport. I had hoped that the President-in-Office of the Council would have read the comments on which the Advancement Party is involved, where it says: «These members consider it important to speed up the capacity of goods, as this is an environmentally friendly and rational way of transporting goods, while reducing the need for road transport.» This means, however, that the majority of the committee is quite in agreement. The progress party is also pleased with the very positive development that we have recorded that CargoNet has had in the transport of goods by rail. There has been a clear desire to move a larger part of the transport from road to sea and track. Although this is good, it must be borne in mind that the growth is twice as high in the transport of goods by road. This may, of course, be due to the fact that on several of the routes the capacity for transporting goods on the railway is detonated. This means that the desire to move more of the freight onto rail is an impossibility, if it is not ensured to facilitate the expansion of the capacity both on the lines and on the terminal. It has to be done in order to handle more goods by rail. The Party notes that there are persistent claims that one mode of transport is better than others. The Progress Party therefore considers that a neutral body capable of producing statistics would be positive in order to ensure that we are properly informed about what is the best form of transport, which will provide a proper basis for priorities and decisions in the transport sector. This information must include emissions, energy use, capacity and costs for all modes of transport, based on objective criteria. The Progress Party also considers it important to allow the railway to solve the capacity problems on the network. I would therefore like to refer to our proposal in the context of the 2007 revised state budget to close down 120 million. kr to increase the capacity of sections where there are capacity problems with the carriage of goods. We would also point out that in the context of our 2008 alternative state budget, we will follow this up. We record that the proposers are satisfied with the reply letter from the Council of State. They therefore obviously do not wish to make their own proposal to ensure that an action plan is drawn up to address the capacity problems on the railway but chooses to join a decision that the proposal should only be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e713	Initially, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Transport on the day. VG today presents the conclusions of the TØI report on the organisation of transport projects by OPS and concludes with 35-50 pst. shorter construction time and large socio-economic gains. Yes, this promises well in terms of railway investment in the future – more of the money. Let me begin with the matter we are dealing with today, stating that the objective of transferring goods to the railway has been a success. The Bondevik II administration has taken a number of steps – including: the company CargoNet was established, which, despite its principal ownership, the NSB and the Swedish Green Cargo, has shown an impressive understanding of customers and market adaptation, which has thus resulted in a formidable development of the rail freight share. You could almost say that the political parties have been turned into reality, and that's very good. Others have mentioned the large increase in Bergensbanen. In fact, today, on the Oslo–Bergen route, 60-70 pst. of all goods on the railway. There are seven freight trains each way today. CargoNet sees a potential increase up to ten to twelve trains each day, each road, and that the length of the trains is 600 m towards the current 400 m. From the Railway Agency itself we have heard that the number of freight trains in a future freight market can be as high as 15 each way. To achieve this, crossing tracks are needed, and prolongation of existing tracks, in particular between Oslo and Roa on Bergensbanen. On Bergensbanen it is also important to extend the capacity between Bergen and Arna, in the first round Bergen-Fløen, and further tunnel through Ulriken. Fortunately, there are projects going on here, for example. Is positive that there is a proposal in the state budget for starting up Bergen station – Fløen, but it goes so small. And I have to add: Region west was very disappointed that the funds earmarked for the current year were moved to other projects. The right will strengthen this project. The previous government also introduced tunnel extensions to allow standard EU containers to pass through and adaptations to overhead lines. The above measures have provided significant benefits for consumers, carriers and the environment. I have used Bergensbanen as an example, but the same needs and assumptions also apply on the Sørlandsbanen and Nordlandsbanen. For all paths, freight terminals, which act as logistics hubs or so-called intermodal hubs, are efficient, time-consuming and customer-friendly. In particular, it is important in this context to point to the need for the rapid implementation of Ganddal and the hub of rail freight in Norway – the expansion and modernisation of Alnabru. As far as the latter is concerned, the work is now delayed by an impact assessment process – KS 2. I wonder if it is not high time to assess the impact of impact assessment processes. It is very swirly, expensive and not least time-consuming processes that we have imposed on initiators and planners of important infrastructure in this country. The right notes that the positive development is now halting, and that containerised goods in large quantities that could have gone by rail are being pushed over by road. On the right, the proposal we are now examining has been promoted, because we believe that there is not a strong enough focus on crossing tracks and capacity-enhancing measures, when it comes to a part of the national transport plan, which will, after all, apply from 2010. We believe that there is reason to review the planned projects to see where the shoe is pressing. I almost understood the representative Rudihagen there that he agreed that there was a need for a plan, just to adapt trains of 600 m in length. He seems to agree with us this way. It is important that we now use available resources to facilitate the provision of a market-adapted offer by the railway. We are responsible for showing creativity and action in relation to our Kyoto obligations and self-committed emission obligations. We are negotiating a climate settlement in this house. I don't reveal a big secret when I tell you that the Right Transport Group expects to get an impact on several actions in the railway sector in this work, including measures to get more goods and passengers over on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e741	I see the tone from the Right in this matter as a different matter than he normally does. I see it as a constructive input to the debate about actually moving goods from road to road. My temptation, however, is to say what I used to say from this pulpit to the Right, that it is good that the Right is not in government, so that we get as much money for the railroad as we get when we have a red-green government. Unfortunately, it would not have been that much money for railway operations if the Right had cooperated with the Progress Party on an offensive railway operation. Now we have an offensive railway bet, but the starting point for the Right is that we don't do enough, and especially in one field, just crossing tracks. I have heard that from many carriers. The world’s largest carrier, Schenker, says there is a need for an additional 300 million. NOK to this. We have to be able to do that, and it's working for this government, because we're busy implementing Soria Moria, according to what it says, stick to, among other things. the climate challenge. The red-green government should not boast too much of itself, but at least in my region one is very happy with the one that one now has on the North-Jear, where one has a fluttering new freight terminal, and one that has a bet on double-tracks. I dare say that if one had had another government, one would not have been able to spend as much money on the railway in this area as one now does. What the previous government did was spread out a lot of money to a lot of projects, without ensuring that one had the money to complete the projects. What a look from the Red-Green government's side, with the Minister of Transport at the head, is that we're just trying to make things work out instead of having to stop things, like the previous government put up. I'm also very happy with what we see, which also Halleraker was in on, on the Bergensbanen, that one has a very large growth in goods on the track, because it's important. The climate challenge we have is not least important. That's why I also thought it was interesting what Halleraker says, that when it comes to the climate message, right comes with the input. He didn't say what kind; probably it's just carrots. I think one should also have looked at the possibilities to whip people a little bit more over on the train, but as I know Right, one doesn't take the chance to do such things for the climate's part. One should have done that, but I doubt that this proposal is for discussion. But I think it's very nice that the Right engages, not least on the transport side, to improve the climate message provided here on the Stortinget. So let's see how it works. At least it is good to take the climate issue seriously. I have nothing else to say but that I see that the Right also subscribes to the content of the Minister of Transport's letter attached to this. And the consensus in Stortinget is great to move transport from road to road and to increase the bet on crossing tracks. This means that the proposal presented by the Right has been followed up, and it will be followed up in the future. Finally, I would just like to remind you that one must also have visions that can be realized relatively quickly with regard to future transport modes, i.e. the high-speed rail solutions. Tomorrow, big city representatives and others are invited to attend a seminar where we take up the three different options for the high-speed train known in Norway, so that we can discuss this and find a strategy to get it realized in Norway. And then we really talk about moving freight and passenger traffic from road to road. With these chosen words, I say thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e756	Norway is facing major environmental challenges, which require its solution in the near future. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that large parts of the challenges we face in the environment are to be solved at home, and that we should not buy away from them abroad. The transport sector accounts for approx. one third of the total environmental emissions we face. There has been an explosive increase in domestic freight transport, a much greater increase than the national transport plan requires. This applies in particular to rail freight services. Here, the NTP 2006-2015 assumes a reduction in freight services performed by rail until 2012, in order to increase it again. So the truth is that we've seen an adventurous increase in freight transport on the railways, while on the road freight has increased even more. There is every reason to praise both CargoNet, Green Cargo and the other rail freighters for seeing the opportunities and taking the challenge. A few years ago, traditional wagon cargo traffic was seen as a hopeless animal and a obsolete form of transport. Now those arrows are also pointing up again. Green Cargo's new flexible train, which consists of blocks with different wagons assembled for a complete freight train, works well to take the combined load. This has led to old sidings for Norwegian industrial companies being put back into service. The wagon load is also transferred from road to track. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that the very positive development of rail freight is now culminating, because we have reached the peak of capacity. And we've reached the peak of capacity before we thought we should reach it. It is very worrying that this situation arises at a time when industry has also given its heavy responsibility for the environmentally friendly transport of goods. I refer to the NHO and the ‘Traffic Lift’. At the same time, it is thought-provoking, even for the Christian People's Party, that we were so little foresight in the previous roll of the NTP and prioritized rail freight as low as we did. There is every reason to learn from old sins, take the environmental challenges seriously and give priority to upgrading railway infrastructure far higher in the forthcoming roll-out of NTP. However, it is a long way to go until 2010, and that is why immediate action needs to be taken. There is no reason to believe that the transport of goods will slow down. On the contrary, industry is notifying further rationalisation of stockholding. This means that, in the future, the stock will be in a car, boat or train even more than today – on a journey between the producer and the recipient. Therefore, the Christian People's Party agrees with the Right that we need to quickly get on the table an action plan for crossing tracks and other measures that can improve freight capacity on the railway. It is disappointing that the Minister of Transport and her government do not see the same acute need and pushes the problem ahead of the rerolling of the NTP in 2009. However, the urgent need for crossing tracks and other measures to improve rail freight capacity has already occurred. So what do we do? We need immediate action for the environment, and the increasing volume of goods transport on the road will become more difficult and more difficult to turn to the path the longer it takes to get the crossing tracks in place. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, shall record in the vote: ‘The majority believe that it must be an objective that the railway always has the necessary capacity and is in such a state that the demand for both passenger and freight transport can be met with high regularity and punctuality.’ Such offensive wording, which also includes the government fraction in the Stortinget, should, in the view of the Christian People's Party, result in a far more offensive response from the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e785	In Document No: The 8 proposal asks the right-wing proposers to create an action plan to increase rail freight capacity. There is no bad suggestion, because it is exactly what the Ministry of Transport is now working with the Railway Agency. Since I joined the Ministry of Transport as a State Council, I have been busy improving the framework conditions for business transport. There is also something that I will focus specifically on in the work on the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, which is planned to be presented to this Assembly by the end of next year. The existing national transport plan has small ambitions for railway development during the period. With this government's offensive grip, it's created the belief that rail is a good alternative, and business now wants to exploit environmentally friendly rail transport. We are working intensively with the Railway Agency and other good partners to solve the capacity challenges we see online. I would like to stress that a good strategy is not just about crossing tracks. In a comprehensive capacity-enhancing strategy, it is important to see among others. the development of terminal capacity, power supply and available locomotives and wagons in conjunction with track capacity. Already last autumn, the Ministry of Railways commissioned the Railway Agency to develop a strategic basis for creating an even better freight transport policy, both in the short and long term. At the end of September this year, the Ministry received a report from the Railway Agency proposing a strategy for the development of rail freight. This report has been discussed between the Railway Agency and the Department now in October. In the light of these discussions, the Railway Agency will continue its work on the strategy until its basic material to the National Transport Plan is submitted to the Ministry just before Christmas this year. Here, the proposal for a freight strategy will be part of the bulk of the material that has been sent to the public. counties and business organisations. At its own meeting and/or seminar with stakeholders and users in order to further discuss the freight transport strategy, the new year 2008 could take place. I have noticed that the opposition part of the setting is also occupied with trade statistics, among others. for energy use and emissions in relation to transport carried out, both for freight and passenger transport, and that this is to be carried out by a neutral and competent body. That's what I'm talking about. Statistical Central Bureau produces a number of statistics, and some of them on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, good official comparisons of the various means of transport's absolute and relative environmental characteristics have been a shortcoming in many respects. This applies to both passenger and freight traffic. So I want to see what can be done with this. The representative, Halleraker, put forward the consequences of the impact assessments. I assume that the Right carried out thorough assessments before the implementation of the system of consistency, KS1 and KS2 during its reign. But I agree with the representative Halleraker that we must always have constant assessments of whether the systems we have are adequate, and whether they work in the direction we want, namely that the projects we submit to the Stortinget should be highly well-proposed and promulgated, so that the Stortinget can make its decisions on a good basis. This is the objective of the impact assessments and quality assurance systems KS1 and KS2. But I'm going to have this constantly assessed. To sum up, I would like to say that the Ministry of Transport works closely with the Railway Agency to establish a good strategy. Therefore, I do not consider it necessary to draw up a separate action plan for crossing tracks in the autumn of 2007, as suggested in Document No. The 8th proposal. The government is already well-informed to develop plans and strategies covering the same issues addressed in the proposal and to present them to the Stortinge in connection with the annual government budgets and not least in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e802	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e805	I record that the Railway Agency informs from time to time that they always buy renewable energy. That's interesting. It could have been good to get the Council of State to explain how to guarantee that trains in Norway are always running on clean energy, as the Railway Agency claims, when there is actually scarcity of these types of resources and other types of energy need to be imported that are not as clean as the hydropower is. It's just someone else who has to use the unclean energy when there's scarcity of clean energy. I'm not sure if I'm so very impressed yet, as long as the total consumption doesn't go down, because you just push the challenge over to someone else who doesn't have the opportunity to, for example. to have parts of the bill paid by the State but to which the Railway Agency has the possibility – as it is part of a State system and a State company. Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e813	I have noticed that the Progress Party has drawn this up in a minority comment, and they are asking us to inform the Government of how, through the purchase of the EU's so-called Green Certificate, the Railway Agency can guarantee that the energy is 100 pst. renewable. I understand that the Progress Party is asking the question, but it is probably a little on the side of the case we are discussing today, Document No. The 8th proposal. Nevertheless, there is a question that is obviously relevant to the overall energy use in society. The railway system purchases clean energy through the system that has been developed with the EU Green Certificate. I would like to come back and discuss this, but it will be difficult to give you a good answer of 1 minute on that question. I suggest we record it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e820	I am pleased with the support given to the proposal by the Right. I am also very positive about the article from Torstein Rudihagen, which, as I see it, called for an action plan and to go through the needs in a corridor. It was the previous government that put CargoNet in place, and we can take self-criticism that we were not predictive enough to see that there was such a huge growth in freight traffic as it has become. But we have to be positive to that now and say that we have to do something about it. The Council of State said in her letter to the Stortinget that she would bring the short-term measures in the State budget, and she has done so. After what I can sum up, there's no suggestion for new crossing tracks next year. There is one crossing track under construction and there is one at Gjøvikbanen to be planned and one at Nordlandsbanen. Is it true that there are no proposals for new crossing tracks in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e829	The next year’s budget includes both the completion and the design of crossing tracks. There are important actions, and I am also busy finishing some projects that have been started. The dilemma with what was done in the previous period was that a spread of funds on a lot of projects – good projects in isolation, but this meant that very little was done. I am busy finishing Ganddal terminal, speeding up the other terminal installations, and not least finishing the double track around Oslo, which is the main obstacle to increasing the capacity of both freight and passenger transport in this country. Therefore, we have wanted to prioritise large funds for that very purpose, in order not to get delays on the large projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e834	I chose in my post to focus on the major environmental challenges we face. Now negotiations have begun on an environmental settlement in Stortinget. We know that the transport sector is of the largest environmental sins domestically, and we have now come into the situation that we have reached the ceiling on goods on the road, so this is an area where we can put in place concrete measures relatively quickly to try to reverse developments. Does the Minister for Transport not see the need for the Stortinget to be briefed on what crossing tracks it is possible to set in motion as soon as possible – a plan for progress in relation to crossing tracks, not least when we have now been confirmed that there is in principle no new at all but planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e841	When it applies to the capacity of the railway, not only crossing tracks are the answer. There is a complex problem that affects both the capacity of the large terminals in the Oslo area – we need to get the double-track construction ready – there is a power supply that needs to be worked on and it goes on terminals and crossing tracks. We work along all these axes, both to keep full pressure on the development of double tracks, by completing terminals – like Ganddal, which will soon be opened – and by planning and deploying double tracks. So we can't see that one isolated from the other. Therefore, it is important that we now complete the strategy that we have for goods, which should of course be public before Christmas, and that we can discuss it on the basis of a holistic priority also in this area. But I agree that we have a job to do, and we are working intensively to solve those challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e846	The left has taken note of the opinion of the new Minister for Oil and Energy. She says that the government's climate effort has been too weak. The left agrees with this, and I am particularly disappointed by the Minister for Transport's commitment to public transport. There has never been more money available, however, railway priority is not given. Despite this, SV's Hallgeir H. Langeland, who has now left the hall, is extremely pleased. That's weird. Does the Minister for Transport agree that the Government's commitment to rail is not sufficient to meet the climate challenges we face? And will she cooperate with the Storting to get in place an increased bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e853	First of all, I'm not saying that this government has a defensive stake on the railway. We have increased the budget up to the NTP framework. When we talked about this in the first autumn, there were very few opposition politicians who thought it was possible to lift the frame both to the road and to the railway, as we have done in the current period. That doesn't mean we're in the goal. We are now working on a new national transport plan, where I hope we can have a good cooperation with Stortinget, and the government will then come up with proposals that are offensive and that will lift the railway effort further into the future. Our problem is that there was one too bad bet before we got into the government offices, not least on the maintenance of the railway network. There are major challenges when it comes to power supply and railing. We need to take this gradually in order to improve both freight and passenger transport. What we are discussing today, particularly applies to freight transport in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e860	First, I would like to say that I am a little surprised at the response of the Council of State to the representative Hoksrud – whether the strategy for renewable energy on the road was not relevant in the matter. It was a little surprising, because that's what's relevant in the whole case, that we're talking about climate emissions by getting more goods on track. My question to the Council of State relates to what the Red-Greens are not in the setting on page 2, because there is therefore the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party behind a note that states that we are calling for more accurate statistics on what is the right mode of transport in terms of climate, social benefits, etc. So here the red-greens don't want to be in, and I'm asking, is it simply because you don't want to get away from what's politically correct, that you just have to talk about the path and not take the relationship with the boat, the air traffic and the road? Is it then possible to achieve reliable measures without such objective statistics?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e869	In my post I gave a response to what the representative is now asking for, because I noticed that the opposition part of the option is occupied with statistics, etc. energy use and emissions during transport. I agree that good statistics are important. The SSB makes a lot of good statistics, some of them on mission from our department. And as I said in my post, I'm going to meet the opposition in this area and see what we can do with this when it comes to the SSB's decisions that also take up what the opposition is asking for in this area. We're all busy having correct statistics, and I don't want to in any way avoid meeting a requirement that would make us get a discussion based on the right criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e876	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 313]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e898	The background to me promoting this interpellation is a desire to try to focus on how far or how short we have actually come into the pharmaceutical policy, almost two and a half years after the adoption of the drug notification in the Stortinget. There's reason to ask questions about whether we've got something further at all in this area. Yes, I dare to venture the claim that in some fields we have almost put on the reverse and go a little backwards. I will explain this in the course of my article. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether today's reimbursement policy is for the benefit of patients. The answer to this is probably in many ways – I think everyone agrees – that anyone working on health and care policy, regardless of party membership, has a desire to do what is best for all those who are ill. However, in terms of drug policy, I regret to say that the focus is very much on how to reduce government spending in this area, rather than focusing even more on what can be done to ensure Norwegian patients the best and most effective medicines as quickly as possible, so that they can also be used in Norway without undue delay. I would argue that Norway is not at this level today. There has been a lack of follow-up to the Committee's observations and the Storting decision at the time of the examination of Innst. S. No 197 for 2004-2005 to substantially raise the so-called de minimis threshold. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party ask there, ‘The Government in the context of the 2006 State Budget submits a proposal for a substantial increase in the ‘debate limit’. The Progress Party had its own proposal, which set the de minimis limit at a specific amount that was significantly higher. The de minimis ceiling is still set at 5 million today. kr, based on the expected costs of the social security after five years. This is far too low, in the opinion of the undersigned, if it is really believed that Norwegian patients should have good and rapid access to new and effective medicines. The lack of follow-up to Stortinget’s wish results in a worse offer to Norwegian patients than would have been possible if the de minimis threshold had been raised. An area which, in the opinion of the undersigned, is even worse is that, despite the signals given, there is a greater desire to make use of the general reimbursement for the major disease groups rather than individual reimbursement, a policy is actually pursued in the opposite direction. In this respect, there is reason to recall that, among other things. is presented in the ECON report, R-2007-51, Changes in the prescription regulation – Impact on COPD patients. This is what has actually happened since the amendment of the reimbursement scheme for coal medicine. There is evidence that patients have now received a lower drug supply, with subsequent increases in hospitalisation, and thus, of course, an increase in public expenditure. Not least, patients are attributed to an even worse quality of life, thus increasing suffering. In this case, the government should ensure that it modifies the reimbursement scheme in this field back to what it was a short time ago, so that the carbon spaces can once again get a better everyday life. This must also be in line with the carbon strategy that has actually been developed. The government's own signals of using as much general reimbursement as possible over individual reimbursement become even more strange when it is seen that a medicinal product is once again transferred from general to individual reimbursement. In this respect, we can also mention that the medicinal product Atorvastatin – 10 mg has been transferred to 20 mg, as a user in cholesterol treatment – just to Section 10a. I'm not saying you shouldn't look at the cost of using medicines, because you have to. Here in Stortinget, we have a responsibility for how to spend taxpayers' money. Furthermore, we are much greater than what is actually the case today, we need to see the whole of the pharmaceutical policy we are pursuing, and then with the patient in focus. There is a direct link between lack of medication or mismedication and reduced quality of life and sick leave. In many cases, we also receive several hospitalisations with subsequent costs. It is also too long to include new medicines in the reimbursement list and, in addition, a pharmaceutical policy is introduced in which the address of residence can determine whether or not to access the best medicines – all this time many of the medicines currently on individual reimbursement require a specialist opinion in order to be given. When we then know that, among other things, in the districts, very few specialists are available in a number of disciplines, it goes without saying that treatment is different. Another area where the residence address will also be able to give a rash is medicines funded by hospitals. With today's difficult financial situation for hospitals, economic considerations can arise as to what drugs you can afford to give patients, and which you can't afford to give. Then you get the question right away: does the patient get the most optimal medicine for his disease? One of the areas where this particular problem may arise – there has been a signal that it may have been this way this fall but has not been given 100 pst. confirmed – among others the transfer of the so-called TNF-inhibitors to the financing of hospitals. So you can read from the current year's budget that you go further in the same direction. The MS drugs are now being added to hospital budgets. This happens without giving clear guidance that the patients, among other things. is in need of the medicinal product Tysabri, to be offered. There is reason to fear that the residence address and the hospital economy could thus help determine whether one or the other offer is being made. Back to my question about today's reimbursement system is for the benefit of patients. My answer would be no, not enough. We have the impression that the primary focus is on keeping costs down, not focusing on the patient having the best and most effective medicine as quickly as possible. In this context, there is also reason to take seriously the international survey Euro Health Consumer Index published. Norway appears to be very poor in terms of the speed with which we use new drugs. In particular, in the case of cancer, Norway is the worst. We are at the bottom of the field as to how quickly we accept new and innovative cancer drugs. We need to think even more comprehensively in the pharmaceutical policy. And to use a quote as Secretary of State Harsvik often uses when he refers to Gro Harlem Brundtland, namely that ‘everything is related to everything’, it is important that the quotation also applies in this field. Then it is important that we follow these words in practical politics, not just in festivities. Norway does not have high expenditures on medicines, compared with countries with which we like to compare. There may also be grounds for recalling that in a number of spending contexts, there will be a lot to save both in public and in private – by using the best and most effective medicines as quickly as possible, and as soon as possible after they have been authorised and given marketing authorisation, not to talk about the individual patient’s improved daily life and often a life with fewer side effects. It's quite obvious, and I'm absolutely sure that you're doing everything you can and you want to do to ensure that patients get the best possible everyday life and get access to the best medicine. But you see time and time again that you put restrictions on saving money. It is not always the saving mechanism that is best for patients, and there is reason to stop a little and assess some of the measures that have been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e932	The representative Nesvik addresses important questions in his interpellation, but I want to say right away that I disagree with the claim that the focus of the pharmaceutical policy of this government, if I understood Nesvik correctly, would be to reduce the state's spending the most. That's not the way it's supposed to be. A general objective of the Government's pharmaceutical policy is that the people, all who need it, have access to medicines, safe and effective medicines irrespective of their ability to pay and where they live in the country. Another objective is that the medicinal products should be used properly in medicine, but also financially. Furthermore, it is also an expressed objective that the reimbursement scheme should cover medicinal products where the benefits are proportionate. This means that the additional costs of including a new medicinal product in the prescription scheme must be proportionate to the health benefits. It also means that medicinal products on this list should and should be removed from pre-authorised reimbursement if the costs are no longer proportionate to the therapeutic value. The medicines we offer patients must be safe and effective. We have two important systems to ensure that. Firstly, we have an authorisation system for all medicinal products marketed on the Norwegian market and, secondly, the bladder prescription system. Today, the authorisation of the vast majority of medicinal products is granted in the context of European cooperation in the field of medicinal products. This means that the medicinal products are authorised at the same time in all EEA co-operation countries. New medicinal products can thus be used and marketed in Norway as quickly as in the rest of Europe. The inclusion of new medicinal products for pre-authorised reimbursement is made in accordance with predictable rules and with equivalent deadlines for the rest of the countries of EEA cooperation. The balance between sufficient evidence and the possibility of rapid access to new treatment for patients is difficult and important. This applies both to the granting of a marketing authorisation for a new medicinal product and to the making of reimbursement assessments. It may not be safe for a medicinal product to be in good shape if it is new. The expectations of a medical innovation may be high, but sometimes it turns out that they do not keep track after a while. We've also had an example of that in ourselves. Therefore, it is important that there are long-term clinical studies and follow-up of use and adverse reactions in order to learn more about the efficacy and benefits of the medicinal product in practice. The Agency has, as it is known in recent years, granted a provisional refund for several medicinal products in which the manufacturer has undertaken to provide a new dossier after a period of time. In this way, a better assessment can be made of whether the criteria have been met in order to maintain a pre-approved refund. There are several requirements that must be met before a medicinal product is authorised in advance and reimbursed. It shall be approved for the treatment or prevention of chronic serious disease, and the efficacy shall be scientifically well documented and clinically relevant for the patient group concerned. In addition, costs shall be proportionate to the treatment base. The manufacturer of the medicinal products must provide such documentation in the application for reimbursement and the Agency shall assess whether the requirements have been met. The Agency is known to have the power to take decisions on the admission of medicinal products for a pre-authorised refund in cases where the additional costs for public health do not exceed 5 million. kr – i.e. the so-called minimum limit. If they exceed this limit, it is the Stortinge which takes decisions in the annual budgetary procedures. Through such a process, I believe that we ensure that the investment in new medicinal products is also assessed against the use of other possible measures. The question of what is a significant increase and where the de minimis threshold should be should be assessed over time. I hear allegations that the de minimis regime is leading to the intransigence of reimbursement proceedings in Norway and that it takes a long time for patients to have access to new medicines. I don't see it that way. In 2006, the Swedish Medicines Agency dealt with 85 requests for reimbursement. Of these, about 90 pst. granted. In the cases where there was a refusal, the main reason was that the medicinal products did not meet the professional criteria for a pre-approved refund. There were only two cases that exceeded the de minimis limit of five million. kr, and which also satisfied the requirements for a pre-approved refund. These two cases were therefore dealt with in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This illustrates the situation in all years since the introduction of the scheme in 2003. It is important from my point of view to establish that it is not the de minimis threshold that is the reason why new medicinal products are not granted a pre-authorised refund. The reason is that the State Medicines Agency has assessed the applications not to satisfy the relevant professional requirements. Most medicines that are reimbursed through the prescription scheme are pre-authorised for prescription on a blue prescription. Clinical studies and assessments at population and group level are based on an assessment of whether the medicinal product is to be supplied on a blue prescription, but the picture is more nuanced. Medicinal products also do not work equally for all people. I therefore believe it is important that we also have a system of individual reimbursement that provides the possibility of reimbursement on a blue prescription for patients sailing if the medicinal product does not meet the requirements for a pre-approved refund. Occasionally, it is very important that new medicinal products become readily available to patients who need it the most. In the individual reimbursement scheme we have, it is possible to grant reimbursement for new medicinal products to patients with special needs, before the Agency has examined the application, and even before a medicinal product has been granted a marketing authorisation. In this way, important innovations can be made available very quickly to those who need it the most. Individual reimbursement is therefore, in my opinion, an important part of the Norwegian reimbursement system that is good for patients. Over the last few years, we have put in place new systems and legislation to ensure that we achieve the goals we have set ourselves. This has led to the removal of some medicinal products from the pre-authorised reimbursement system because they no longer meet the professional requirements. It also has to be evaluated continuously, as I see it. But those who have had a good effect of the treatment have been able to apply individually for further reimbursement. I have also seen that it has been claimed that the number of applications for individual reimbursement has grown sharply in recent years, among others. because of this scheme. However, figures from NAV, which administers the scheme, show that the number of applications for individual reimbursement has been stable in recent years. The case-handling time for unpriority cases is now below five weeks. For priority issues, it is primarily medicines for children, i.e. in the event of a life-threatening disease or if the treatment leads to a faster return to work – the time of treatment is now around two weeks. I believe that we basically have a good system for reimbursement of medicines in Norway. Nevertheless, it is of course important that we constantly work on improving the system, and that we are on guard against unintended effects. That is why I have launched several measures to follow-up the Storting's wish to limit the use of individual reimbursement. I would also like to consider other measures to follow up on this. I'm also familiar with claims that individual reimbursement can cause social differences. I also know that the pharmaceutical industry has launched studies to study this in more detail. As you know, the government provided a national strategy to balance social health inequalities early in the year. The objective is to ensure that healthcare services and medicinal products are equivalent in terms of availability, use and performance. One of the measures in the strategy is to identify social differences in healthcare use. In particular, I would like to ask the Social and Health Directorate to investigate what is involved in medicines. Good documentation is important to assess the need for changes to the individual reimbursement scheme. I will follow the results of these studies carefully, and I will also be open to any changes if we see that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e968	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I look forward to the changes that are being considered coming here, so that you can get a certain kind of change. But there were a few points on which the Council of State was not involved, and on which I find reason to ask questions. One relates to the use of general versus individual reimbursement. The Councils of State showed, inter alia: to benefit from individual reimbursement. Yes, of course we have it in some cases. There's no disagreement. But the Storting and the Government have actually pointed out that it is both desirable and necessary in the case of the large patient groups, that one gets a twist over from individual to general reimbursement. I have the following questions to the Council of State: How many medicines have actually been transferred from individual to general reimbursement after coming up with that signal, versus how much has happened the other way? My claim is that there is only one major and significant medicine that has been taken that way, but that can be commented by the Council of State in its next article. Furthermore, we clearly agree that access to medicines should be ensured for the whole population. I also said in my post that I am absolutely sure that all those sitting in this room, and those who are engaged in health and social policy, have in mind that we should do the best for those who are ill. However, the problem with § 10a, individual reimbursement, is that many have to enter the specialist before the application can be sent to NAV. That is where you have the great delay. The five weeks are one piece of it, but the biggest problem is to be able to access the specialist in the district, so that the application can actually be forwarded to the NAV system. We need to focus more on that, so that you can make sure that no matter where you live, you have the same possibilities. That's one of the issues. And then you showed that the cost is going to be proportional to what you have as a dividend. Of course they're going to do it. But I refer to the ECON report that I referred to in my post, where ECON concludes, among other things. with the following: ‘The consumption of new COPD medicinal products decreases following the amendment of the Regulation. The decline is greater in the eastern parts of Oslo than in western parts. There is also an increase in the consumption of the new medicines on white prescription. This may mean that the regulatory change has contributed to increased social inequalities in the treatment of COPD.’ And the next point: ‘Numbers from the patient registry also indicate that the regulatory change has contributed to several emergency inserts with a diagnosis of COPD.’ My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State go further into these figures to be absolutely sure that what we are actually doing is not for the worse for the patients, but for the best for the patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e989	There were a lot of questions. I don't think I can answer everyone here and now, but we'll get to do it. Firstly, it is a very important starting point for this government, and as I see it there is a broad consensus that all patients throughout the country should, if they need that drug for their disease, have access to it. One of the reasons we've set up the new National Council for Quality and Priorities is that we've had too many things where we've seen that it's depending on whether you've belonged to that hospital or to that region, whether you've received that treatment or that kind of medicine. We'll have an end to that. That's one piece of the thing. The representative of Nesvik asked how many medicines have been transferred. That's three. We've done it on professional advice, so that's not something we've invented to save money. Then I want to say a few words about what we think in terms of improving the reimbursement system and limiting the use of individual reimbursement, something the Storting is concerned about, and to follow up the decisions. Firstly, we want to implement the measures – as has already been done – to improve compliance with the reimbursement system and the conditions set for reimbursement. It is also the case that a new bladder prescription that comes into force on 1 March next year is more specific and will be more suitable for electronic communication, for example. in the play's record system. We will make it so that the reimbursement conditions will be available to the prescriber at the moment of prescription. We also put forward increased efforts in the field of pharmaceutical information, including in order to balance the marketing of the industry. That is one of the reasons why we in the State budget, as we know, propose to create a separate information unit at the State Medicines Agency. The e-receptive project, launched in 2009, believes that we will also be able to contribute to this. We have also started an evaluation of medicinal products that may be relevant for transfer, based on professional reasons. We will get more answers to what medicines we are talking about during the autumn, and in that case we will have good reasons to do so. In the case of coal, exemptions have been made from the requirement that the treatment must have been initiated by a specialist prior to the application for coal medicinal products and the low levels of lipids, which have no longer been authorised in advance. In the extension of that, I would like to say that the debate on whether or not you have to enter into a specialist is a debate I want us to go more into for some disease groups. It's obvious, as our country looks, with the lack of specialists in parts of the country, that there's an area we have to look more closely at just to make sure what I perceive is also one of the points of the interpellant, namely to get this out even faster to those who need it. We have several things going on, and I would also like to take with me what comes out in this debate and in further debates on medicines, in what we are working on to comply with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1004	I thank the interpellant for an important interpellant, and will come into some of the main themes that have been traveled. The first concerns individual and general reimbursement, or blue prescription according to Section 10a. We gave a common attitude before the holiday from all the parties in the Health and Care Committee, minus the Progress Party, when we dealt with the big-time message of social health differences, where we were just concerned about the social effects of the transfer to individual reimbursement under Section 10a, and where we asked that this be carefully evaluated. For some reason the Progress Party was not included in that comment, but it is clear that there is now also commitment from the Progress Party. The concern we had was that the demanding application processes involved in Section 10a could get unfortunate results, and that especially less resource-intensive people could have problems implementing the process. It is necessary to consult specialists, local social security agencies, national social security agencies that have advisory doctors, regional social security agencies, and NAV. There is a lot of documentation going on along the way. This process can take from two weeks to one year, depending on the speed of the system. In addition to being dependent on the specialist coverage in the country, which was in the hands of both the interpellant and the minister, it will also depend on how the decision maker backs up, to what extent the decision maker shows initiative and willingness to help the patient so this is not too complicated and requires too much personal effort and follow-up. That's real cause for concern. Some studies have been commissioned by the industry. The investigations have been carried out by agencies which, of course, rely on their professional integrity. As regards another area, diabetes medicines and long-acting insulin analogues, these studies have shown that the rash is of concern. You can see, for example: in Oslo that in the eastern districts, such as Stovner and Sagene, the use of the long-acting insulin analogues for diabetics on § 10a is much smaller than in western areas such as Ullern and Frogner. This may, of course, be because in the western parts of the city who have to go through the heavy application process and fail to do so, they can buy the drugs themselves – that it may be one of the reasons. It's not good if others who can't afford to buy it themselves, bully at the cheapest, simplest and – for some – the worst drugs. It's important, if this leads to some people getting poorer quality of life and getting hit by diabetes in a way that hadn't done better medicine. The Agency has estimated that there may be 10,000 who need these long-acting insulin analogues, while at present there are 5,000 who receive them. I am afraid that the 5 000 missing in the estimate may be affected by different social breakdowns. So we save some money, but that money we can get back in expenses in terms of more amputations and serious disease episodes as a result of diabetes. We also see the same differences between states in the country – not only in Oslo, but between, for example. Finnmark and More and Romesdal. Here we see great differences, where Finnmark is the county where, just as Eastern urban areas in Oslo, you are using to a small extent the most expensive medicines. I am pleased with the signals given by the Minister that she will ask the Social and Health Directorate to look at this. The same concern that Nesvik has mentioned in relation to coal medicine will apply to the allergenic medicines that will now be transferred in the state budget to Section 10a, where I understand that the assessment is not complete. The Minister now says that she wants the Social and Health Directorate to review this so that we also get independent assessments, and not only have what has been ordered by the pharmaceutical industry, as the basis for further discussions. We look forward to it and to coming back to other issues related to this. I think the biggest challenge in relation to social health differences and distribution lies in this with individual/general reimbursement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1017	The interpellant quoted a State Secretary who quoted a former Prime Minister with the gold grain ‘all related to everything’. It's a recognition that's irrefutablely correct and that can't be used for anything. It does not allow itself to be operationalised in practical policies, because in practical policies we are changing something all the time – we are never able to change everything at the same time. That is why we are now once in a reality that our attempts to find the best forms of drug use policy will always be deficient. We'll never be able to find permanent and correct solutions to these questions. However, there is an ongoing problem, which concerns not only the use of medicinal products but also all aspects of health policy, and that is: to what extent are the financial arrangements, reimbursement schemes, tariffs, governing medical activity? And to what extent are the medically justified assessments governing resource use? The answer is enough that in too many contexts it is the financial arrangements that, if not, govern the professional development, so at least the professional development influences in a way that is not always – now I say carefully – for the benefit of the patient in the individual case. Last year, when the majority incorporated their views in the budget position on a concrete transfer from general to individual scheme, the view that the Council of State was also concerned with its response to the inter-pellant, namely that there should be an opening for individual evaluation, on the basis of the recognition that in the case of individual medicinal products, there are considerable differences in their benefit to the patient, despite the fact that there is a single diagnosis, and then it is of course right that there should be such an opening. However, the condition must be that in those cases where the specific medical assessment carried out by the treating physician is the basis for such a distinction. What the interpellant, in my opinion, rightly asks is whether one of the government's governments is overtaking this by transferring more and more medicines from one category to the other, and also in cases where there are not necessarily large differences between patients' benefits from the drug. It is also true, as the interpellant pointed out, that the more complicated the procedure becomes to access a particular type of treatment, the greater the social inequalities. There is a lot of evidence. Of course, it is related to – one might imagine without documentation and extensive studies – that resource-intensive patients, not necessarily in an economic sense, but also in other meanings of the word, will have their rights, and they will ensure that they are given their rights. While the weaker the patient’s position is initially, the more likely the patient is to fail to achieve the desired outcome. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State really puts political strength behind what she said in her reply, that there is still a lot of assessment work to be done here, and that until you know for sure that medicines that are transferred to individual reimbursement do not end up in the group that leads to increasing social differences in access to good medical care in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1028	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising this important interpellant. In my opinion, the blueprint scheme has been moving further and further away from the objective of the scheme in recent years. The use of individual reimbursement has increased significantly in recent years, as I see it. In the context of the 2005 review of the notification of medicinal products, the Social Committee asked the Government to give priority to the transfer of medicinal products from individual to pre-authorised reimbursement. At the same time, the Committee asked for individual reimbursement to be reserved for small patient groups medicinal products. In the context of the review in our Communication on National Strategy to Balancing Differences, several of which have been the subject, the Health and Welfare Committee expressed concern that the system of individual reimbursement could have social effects and specifically asked for this to be evaluated. This has not been followed up yet. But the Council of State today signals that this work will be done. It's positive and important. According to what the Council of State said today, only three medicinal products have been transferred from individual to pre-authorised reimbursement. At the same time, six or seven medicinal products have been transferred from pre-authorised to individual reimbursement since 2005. The draft budget for 2008 provides for the transfer of three additional medicinal products to individual reimbursement. The interpellant mentioned one of them. I'll give you another example, antihistamines. In addition, the medicinal products transferred for individual reimbursement are used by some very large patient groups, and this is contrary to the previous Storting opinions. According to the Norwegian Asthma and Allergi Associations, antihistamines, now proposed to be transferred to Section 10a, have a turnover of no less than 77 million daily doses per year. You can't just say that this is a small amount or about a small patient group. Paragraph 10a was intended as a safety net for small patient groups, not as a supporting element in the reimbursement policy, as it now appears to be moving towards more and more drugs. Our responsibility must be to ensure that access to new, important medicinal products is improved for Norwegian patients. For most medicinal products, it will be possible to formulate very specific reimbursement conditions. Doctors must ensure that these are met in the individual case. Electronic prescription solutions are on the way and will make it easier for doctors to get an overview of the conditions. More specific reimbursement conditions will hopefully also make it easier to significantly increase the de minimis threshold, which has also been the focus of the size. In this way, access to new medicinal products could be improved. In a few years, we have been given some very effective biological medicines, which are also relatively expensive, to treat, among other things. Revmatism, cancer and MS. In the future, more such medicinal products are likely to occur. Today’s policy is to allow health businesses to finance these medicinal products, with the consequence that the economy of health businesses can determine whether or not each patient is being treated with such medicinal products. At least we see too many inequalities associated with this today. For these medicinal products, it is particularly important that national treatment guidelines are established and that there is financial room for healthcare undertakings to follow these guidelines. In conclusion, I believe that the economic development of pharmaceutical costs is well controlled in Norway, and that is positive. Developments have remained stable over the last three to four years if we look at expenditures as a whole. In 2007, it looks like the growth's going to be close to zero. Only in the revised national budget this year, the estimate for the cost of medicinal products was actually significantly downgraded. This does not mean, however, that I believe that we should stop focusing on cost developments. However, developments should now provide an opportunity to focus more on the proper use of medicinal products according to the needs of patients, and not least on ensuring non-discrimination across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1052	The size has given its support to the pharmaceutical policy and reimbursement policy objectives that we have in Norway today, cf. Ot. pp. No 29 from 1998 to 1999, which states that the system of reimbursement of medicinal products shall contribute to the following objectives: ‘ensure, as far as possible, equal and easy access to effective medicinal products for small and large patient groups with documented need for medical treatment. [[...]] [[...]] provide value for money to society, that is to say, to the community to reimburse expenditure on medicinal products that provide a safe health benefit for the patient and have a good impact on costs. It is important that cost management is good so as to ensure optimum use of resources. [[...]] stimulate the responsible and cost-conscious prescription and use of medicinal products in doctors and patients. [[...]] to help individuals with moderate and low risk of future disease, and where the treatment effect is low and/or uncertain, take the utmost responsibility for their own health. [[...]] The public has obligations primarily towards patients with a serious disease or a high risk of disease, where effective medicinal products exist.As far as possible, reflect knowledge of the benefits and costs of the use of medicinal products, based on health economic studies. The reimbursement mechanism shall be easy to manage and understand. [[...]] [[...]] I believe that there is, in fact, agreement in the Grand Duchy on the policy objectives of reimbursement of medicinal products. A lot has been said today about the de minimis limit. I think it is important to stress what the Council of State referred to, namely that in 2006 there were 85 reimbursement cases in the Medical Products Agency, and that only two cases were sent to the Ministry of Health and Welfare because they exceeded the de minimis limit, while 90 pst. of the cases that were dealt with were granted. The reason why the others were not granted was in fact that they did not satisfy the requirements set by the Swedish Medicines Agency. I think it is important for the representative of Nesvik to raise a debate on the use of medicines. It is clear that we must constantly ask questions about our practices in line with the objectives set by the Stortinget for the reimbursement scheme. One area I want to mention. When we compare ourselves with Sweden, for example, we see that the use of cancer medicine in Norway is much lower than it is in our neighbouring country. We see that there is a very rapid development in this area. Putting into practice tried-and-tested medicines that can help single patients with rare cancer diagnoses, for example, I think it's worth working with us, the Department and the Council of State, and maybe say something about it too. It is important that people who are in a critical phase of life are given the opportunity to obtain medicines that are available, but that we have not necessarily used in our country, while they have done so in neighboring countries. I also think it is important to listen to what the Council of State says in relation to this with social health differences, and that the Department will investigate whether changes in Sections 9 to 10a mean that patients in special social classes do not receive the necessary and proper medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1087	The position of the left is as simple as that: we believe that Norwegian patients must have equal offers and opportunities regardless of housing and social status, which many people have had. I'm sure there's all some in it. But, as has been said in the debate today, there are some who are more resource-intensive, who are more willing to meet the demands, as it is called, and to get the best medicine. That is why it is a challenge for suppliers to be proactive, to say the word, towards those groups that are unable to shout loud enough. If it has been proven that new medicines have a good effect and are better, I think we in Norway can't be more sluggish than other countries to introduce the new medicines. In any case, it must be the starting point, although one must also focus on the cost-benefit aspect. In fact, I argued that what I have now said is also in principle the official policy of the Department, and that health professionals and other health service actors are clearly informed of this. The introduction of new medicines must, of course, be based on professional criteria, and this has led to the fact that we have a competent professional environment that develops such criteria, and that we have a professional environment that is so strong that we can have confidence in them. It's very important. Medication and medicine are at the heart of all patient treatment, and I have suggested that patients are provided with the patient treatment that best suits their needs, and that all patient groups are confident that they are receiving the best and most accessible treatment available. It must also include the newer medicines. Today’s debate is important in the sense that the problem that the interpellant has raised needs to focus from time to time, not least because we can improve – improvements to the patient’s best – and check whether the practices that exist are in line with Storting’s intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1101	In my and SV's opinion, we have a good system for obtaining a pre-authorised refund, which ensures that patients are given medicines that are professionally sound and well documented. In addition, we have an individual reimbursement scheme that allows reimbursement of new medicinal products for patients with special needs before the Agency has dealt with any reimbursement request and even before a medicinal product has been granted a marketing authorisation. In this way, important innovations can be made available very quickly to those who need it the most. In addition, we have also put in place systems and legislation for those who have had a good effect on treatment, so that they have also been able to apply individually for further reimbursement. As for the fear of whether individual reimbursement schemes lead to social differences, I am very pleased that the pharmaceutical industry has now initiated studies to study whether individual reimbursement causes social differences. I am also very pleased that the Council of State stresses that she will take a closer look at this when the report is available. It is particularly important for us who are from the districts, to have a thorough review of this, and to follow up the Government's objectives to ensure that health and care services are equivalent in terms of availability, use and performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1112	The last representative said that she was pleased that the pharmaceutical industry was going to investigate the social bias associated with drugs, and that the ministry and the authorities were looking at it. I think it might be a good way to do it. I hope at least that's what's being done. The councils have already announced that she will look at it, and I appreciate it very much. I think it has been a very useful debate, and I hope that the debate can also take us a step further to get an even better pharmaceutical policy. I have a few comments. Jan Bøhler called for the Progress Party's view that we have only now had an involvement with it with the transfer from individual to general reimbursement. I can then refer to the medical report and quote the following: ‘These members assume that the transfer of medicinal products from individual reimbursement to general reimbursement starts as soon as possible.’ And on the other hand, ‘These members will indicate that this must be possible without the Storting having to take decisions on each case. The only consequence of this in this case is that the Storting will have to act as a case manager to a much greater extent than today." So that's the point clearly. The representative of the Skjälaa was in a de minimis position. We almost got the impression that the Skjäla's attitude to the pharmaceutical policy was that now everything is as well, everything works so well after we got into government. Then I just want to remind you what the Center Party itself was involved in during the treatment of the medical notification. It states that ‘the Government, in the context of the 2006 State Budget, is asked to submit a proposal for a substantial increase in the ‘minor limit’. I'm assuming that the Center Party is still on this, so we can do something about it. Norway does not foresee excessive expenditure on medicinal products. The Health and Welfare Committee has now conducted a good number of consultations relating to the State budget for next year. In this context, the Cancer Association stated in its opinion that Norway uses 37 pst compared to Sweden and Denmark. less to carcinogens than these countries. This is a country with which we have a relatively similar population structure. There are countries that we compare with in every other context. The comment is that we may need to have more cooperation between countries to a greater extent than today. One thing is the cooperation we have with the EEA Agreement, which is very good. Maybe you should go one step further and make sure that we maybe get even better cooperation, so that you can actually get more involved, have faster procedures and, therefore, a more sensible use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1135	With regard to the issue that more people have understood, whether social differences are increasing or decreasing in relation to what is being done in the field of medicines, we agree that we must both follow up and investigate. In addition to asking the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health to do so in particular with regard to medicines, I can also inform you that the Ministry of Health and Health will provide clearer guidelines for the introduction of new treatment methods and for medicines. As I said before, the new National Council for Quality and Priority in Health has been given the task of providing a common knowledge and value base for priority work and making recommendations on how to achieve social equality in all areas of healthcare. I just want to say two words about the allergy medicines that are mentioned in the budget, and that have been discussed in this debate today. It is quite right that it is announced that the Swedish Medicines Agency has initiated processes of updating, and I would like to underline the possible change of the reimbursement status of the three most expensive allergens. On 1 May 2006, as is known, the preferred medicinal product scheme was introduced for all antiallergy medicinal products. It was based on a knowledge summary from the Knowledge Centre. The conclusion was that no significant differences have been identified for patients in terms of effects or adverse reactions. The reason why the Medical Products Agency will assess the reimbursement status is that there may still be an excessive use of the expensive and non-preferential medicinal products. So that's what needs to be investigated. In the process currently under way, dialogue with stakeholders, for example: Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations. That process also provides for an assessment of whether general practitioners should be able to apply for individual reimbursement without the need for the patient through a specialist. It is one of the themes that will now be considered. To the representative of the payroll, I just want to say that the economy shouldn't be critical of whether patients get the medicine they need. There must be professional reasons why you should have a medicine, how much you should have, etc. I also think it's important to say, for example. on the medicinal product tysabri, which it is understandable that there has been some attention in recent times, that I believe it is quite seaworthy, but we are not in the goal that everyone who needs it should get it. Professionals say it is that not everyone who has the disease should have the medicine. It is not that one medicinal product works on all. What I also agree with is that we have to make the least complicated arrangements possible, so that social inequalities are reduced and not increased. Finally, as far as I know, it is not under this government that the system of transferring more to individual reimbursement has exploded. This has increased significantly since 1997, while others have also had government responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1157	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1163	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1170	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that students who take more credits than the norm can convert a larger part of their loan into an education grant.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1195	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to eliminate the distinction between resident and resident students, so that all students, irrespective of their place of residence, have the same opportunity to receive training support through the Loan Fund.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals in order to gradually raise the income threshold for what can be earned before the grant rate is reduced.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to gradually raise the threshold of student wealth before they receive a reduced grant.’ These proposals will be replaced by the Committee's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1252	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-25.ana.ud91e1282	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone wish to speak under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
