ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e75	In the financial debate held in this Chamber on 27 November, I pointed out to the leader of Sogn and Fjordane Arbedarparti, who is also spokesman in the municipality of Askvoll, what he said to the local radio in Sogn and Fjordane. There she said that Ashvoll municipality now did not have the means to develop the municipality so that one could stop a negative population development. This has been later – also on the local radio – underlined and reinforced by the Vice-leader in Sogn and Fjordane Arbedarparti, also spokesperson in Stryn Municipality, who said that the municipal economy in Stryn was so pressured that one could not follow the priorities of central government. In the submission to the municipal budget, they have a stroke of 285,000 kroner for fruit and vegetables and use these money for other things. On questions from the journalist about how the government can rely on municipal politicians when they see that funds for fruit and vegetables go to other things, the vice-leader in Sogn and Fjordane Arbedarparti say that government and staging must work to increase transfers to municipalities in the form of free means, and that a centralist must have confidence that municipal politicians are a priority. Now the leader and vice-leader of Sogn and Fjordane Arbeidarparti are not alone to be frustrated by little money in the municipal funds and to signal big cuts in the municipal budget for the next few years. I have obtained information from all the municipalities in Sogn and fjords about how budget work is done in individual municipalities. No one suggests a cut in either education or health care or care for the elderly. Most people cut both in education and in health care and care for the elderly. Cross-border schools are proposed to be closed, and there appears to be considerable restrictions on the provision of services to the sick and the elderly. When you read on, you will see that the rest of the red-green vocabulary says almost the same thing as the working party tops of Sogn and Fjordane. When Stoltenberg and others from the government party have talked about increasing hands in the care and care sector over the last few years, and claim that the government is on track and that it was doing away with 10,000 new hands until 2009, then it is my claim that this is cheating with numbers. In order to substantiate my claim, I would like to point out that the State of Sogn and Fjordane have compiled figures for Sogn and Fjordane, which show an increase or decrease in annual work for personnel in the care and care sector from 2003 up to and including 2006. The county line-up shows that the changes in the 2005–2006 period were an increase of 221 people. This sounds perfectly right, if the number is right. If it is from such distributions that Stoltenberg and the Government get their information, and they use it to substantiate the claim that they should provide 10,000 new hands in the care sector, then I call it fantasy hands. I've spent time getting this from the Sogn County and the Fjords to find out what's behind these numbers. In figures, all agreed annual works are with, including for temporary workers, and it is not corrected for absence. That means that these numbers are not in any way relative to the actual situation. Based on the reality that I know through contact with individual municipalities, the truth is that the increase in the number of hands is only 25 pst. of the State statistics shown. After the view of the Progress Party, the core tasks of the municipalities have not been carried out satisfactorily. This goes beyond the growing genus, which has appeared to a great extent in research and distribution in recent times. If no significant changes are made to the training scheme, a young person who finishes the basic school will experience that he/she has not been given the requisite ballast to continue his/her schooling and will later meet the workforce with zero in professional fill-up. Going into a hospital, one quickly discovers that in most cases the hospital has been a detention centre, where there is no time for anything but the most necessary, and hardly enough. The best possible quality of life for residents in the care and care sector is not a time for prioritisation. Our tools, with private items in the care sector and ear-marked means of doing this, are the only thing that can improve the situation for those who need it. Making plans to be used in party speeches is easy, but it turns out to be a little bit awkward in the real world. The Progress Party will argue that today’s model for financing the local government sector is not appropriate. We want the state to take over the financial responsibility for basic welfare provision such as education, care for the elderly and care, and have repeated proposals to this effect in the Stortinget. This method of funding is the only way to ensure that the citizens have the services they require, regardless of the municipality in which they live. We will also refer to the Progress Party's alternative budget, where we increase the transfers to the municipalities by DKK 1.4 billion in relation to the Government's plan. The step-by-step item features an extra DKK 1 billion for care for the elderly, 400 million. kr to base ball and 200 mill. kr for further education. In addition, saw the progress portion of 160 million. kr more to cover the costs of the municipality relating to resource-requiring services. We are very pleased that the Government has now, under pressure from the Progress Party, introduced a model that is in practice a piece price model for resource-requiring services, with an entry point of 800000 kroner and a compensation rate of 85 pst. We had a thorough and interesting debate when a few days ago we dealt with an interview from Bent Höie about the lack of innovation in the public sector. For the Progress Party, it is particularly important to clarify that we have as our overarching goal the reduction and efficiency of public bureaucracy – this in order to make central authorities more transparent for the individual citizen, which in turn will increase the individual citizen’s ability to influence, but not least in order to reduce public spending. Equally important for the Progress Party is to point out that each public sector renewal strategy must also be seen in the context of the need for more labour in the private sector. Then we don't talk about help nurses, for whom the Council of State has previously criticized us. No, we're talking about adding to public administration. For us, the left-hand side seems to see growth in the public sector as a means of relieving unemployment. This is a ride that Gerhardsen takes advantage of after the Second World War, and is totally unnecessary and unacceptable today, after the Progress Party's vision. As a result, an increasing number of private sector employment needs to be financed more and more public employment. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the inter-pelling debate on 20 November on the lack of public sector renewal, which, after the Progress Party's view, was a very good debate. Finally, I would like to address all the proposals that the Progress Party alone or together with others has presented in the budget setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e119	The representative Åge Starheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e124	The Progress Party is good at constantly talking about and focusing on everything that is negative and wrong with today's immigration and integration policy. It is rare or never one meets attitudes of the Progress Party that suggest that something is good. Every time we talk about it and discuss this topic, the same one starts again, and we know what comes from the Progress Party. It could have been interesting to hear what Åge Starheim and the Progress Party think is positive and successful with today's immigration and integration policy. I would therefore like to challenge the representative to respond to this the minute he now has at his disposal. Will the representative address this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e131	The party of progress has been preaching immigration for very many years. The party has received enormous criticism for its attitude towards immigration – the party has pointed out a great lack of Norwegian immigration policy. The Party for Progress has received very serious packaging for the holder of the Party's immigration policy. We're not saying that everything that concerns immigration is crazy, but we've got it right in most of the references that we've made when it comes to Norwegian immigration. It turns out time after time that the other games, including the game that the query is from, have gone for our solutions after some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e138	I'm going to do something that's a little unusual; I'm going to actually ask people to read the comments that the Progress Party has about immigration and integration in this setting. There is a continuously negative picture of immigration and integration. There is no positive – there is no positive word – about integration and immigration in the comments of the Progress Party. After all, the proposal they have made that Norway should no longer accept quota refugees is a top priority. If the Advance Party receives what they want, they must not accept quota refugees. They will take in some allowance refugees in 2008, but then it will be over. These are then refugees coming from camps under the control of the United Nations, etc. And then they say that the quota refugees that fit, as they're going to enter in 2008, are going to be Burmese. And that's good. That's great. But what is it that makes the Progress Party know better than the UN and others which quota refugees most need to come to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e143	I would like to refer to the general policy of the Progress Party for many years in relation to immigration. I would also argue that even the Socialist Left Party has gradually admitted that our immigration policy has many things in it that are right. We tolerate right-wing criticism of our immigration policy from the other parties, and we stand firm after getting such criticism. And we're going to keep going on with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e150	In the State budget, there is a separate grant scheme that goes to migrant organisations and to other voluntary activities. The aim of this scheme for nation-wide organisations is to support organisations working to secure rights, opportunities and obligations to participate in society and to make use of their own resources. The progress party has halved the post office and said that it will only go to a few organisations. They delete the aid to Anti-racist Centres, they delete the State aid to the Organisation against Public Discrimination. How are we going to understand this? Do they not think it is right that there is discrimination in the labour market and otherwise in relation to our new compatriots?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e157	We have shown in our proposals that we think it should be a principle of equality for all when it concerns applications for state support. Based on this, we don't think we want to support these.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e162	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e165	This year, too, we can see that the Government and the opposition are largely in agreement on the extent to which the municipalities will suffer from social shock. The disagreement is not about the size of the pie piece, but about how to serve it and not least the description of the size and content of the pie piece. In connection with the two-year anniversary of the Government, Minister of State Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa spoke to Stavanger Aftenblad: ‘Finally, local government may, after a local election, consist in the certainty that the work will focus on local priorities. Local politicians should simply be allowed to pursue policies again. It's over that it's all about cutting." I do not think this is a description in which the newly elected local politicians and rapporteurs recognize themselves, because local newspapers from the south to the north report something quite different. On 7 December, the Agderpost wrote: ‘Habilitation services in Risør must cut 4 million. It became clear after the budgetary procedure in the municipality on Tuesday. The left-wing day and work centre will be closed, according to the rapporteur.’ Harstad Official Journal reports on 30 November: ‘The Presidency has been working hard and will carry out painful cuts in Ibestad.The list of job vacancies is long as a bad year, said a local politician to HT after the Presidency meeting the other day.’ Nordlys writes on November 20: 'The question for us in the Ap seems to be: which election vow shall we break,' said the rapporteur, Arild Hausberg. [[...]] The situation is also confirmed by KS. In the evening post of 24 November, Director Bjørn Gudbjørgsrud says: ‘The Community framework for 2008 actually means a lower growth than the budgets of Erna Solberg.’ The red-green parties won the election in 2005 by promising very much on behalf of local politicians. Now, after two years, they continue to promise both on behalf of local politicians and to owe them when the government parties' own promises from 2005 have not yet been fulfilled. Both in 2007 and in the scheme now under consideration for 2008, there is a reduction in the free income of municipalities. In spite of this, and despite the fact that the Government obviously needs to be aware of what they are doing, the government councils on behalf of the municipalities have only promised in the autumn more for the maintenance of churches, more for the maintenance of schools and other buildings, more for the protection of schools, better medical coverage, higher quality of care for the elderly, more for sport, more for culture, more for rehabilitation, more for libraries, more for housing, increased social assistance, more for drug addicts and the world's best schools. The last one promised the Prime Minister of Today's Business. And this is the list from only this fall. The government has created an expectation crisis in Kommune-Norway. People read national newspapers. They watch TV and hear about a government that says it has given the municipalities billions, and believe that the municipalities are now able to solve most of the problems. On the same day, they look up in their local newspapers, where the rapporteur stands up and tells of dramatic cuts in school, health and care. This policy and strategy of the Government and Government parties undermine local democracy. It's a very high price to pay to shift responsibility for your own policies to others. It may seem like the only government council that has perceived the situation in Kommune-Norway is the new Minister of Knowledge. A press release was sent out the day before the municipal frameworks were adopted in Stortinget, with the following alarming message: “The Minister of Knowledge says he has received many messages about the closure of schools and cuts in teaching positions.” But he also continues to shift responsibility to the municipalities, because he says in the same message: “Both municipalities and county councils have received more money, but it may seem that too little of the money goes to school.” The right is expecting the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs to be ready to shoulder with the country's rapporteurs. She has to say that the scheme for 2007 and 2008 is a tight scheme that requires conversion in Kommune-Norway. She has to take responsibility for the situation and get her colleagues to stop pushing the country's rapporteurs in front of her. If she has not understood the situation, she can take a phone home to Arne Kleppa, the group leader of the Central Party of Central Party-led Helmeland. He said to Stavanger Aftenblad: "We have to set the price by industry." He said that after the majority of the Presidency decided to save $2 million. kr by dropping out of Årdal school and increasing revenue by 8 million. kr by taxing property – both parts of the plot in violation of the electoral obligations. Or is the Minister of State still standing on his statement of August: ‘It is over that it is only about cutting’? The right believes that municipalities should retain a greater proportion of the values created locally. Therefore, we maintain the objective that the municipalities should be financed by 50 pst. of own tax income. We also propose a higher proportion of corporate tax to the municipalities. This is that we want municipalities to have real local governance, both with their own challenges and with their own opportunities. The right-hand side believes that the country as a whole is getting better if the municipalities are rewarded when things go well. A system of income for the municipal sector, which is about demonstrating the greatest possible poverty in order to maximise state transfers, will over time weaken our welfare society. We don't want to make the municipalities social clients of the state. Right-wing promote today proposals for a multi-stage plan to improve the housing support system. We end at 100 pst. Upon government councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's bet on the line of work, and that work is the best and safest way out of poverty. But we are not united in our poverty policy. In addition, we have focused on three key areas: more on drug treatment and psychiatry, stronger work on integration – focusing on women and children – and a better housing support system. Our integration proposals come the representative Kari Lise Holmberg back to his post. I'm going to focus on the housing support. The housing aid is perhaps the most targeted scheme to reach the poor who do not have the opportunity to get into work. Having a safe and predictable financing of their housing is perhaps what is most crucial to having profits to participate in other arenas in society. That's why the Right is very surprised that the Government, which now has 130 billion dollars more available than when it took over, was unable to give priority to a single improvement in the housing support system for those who are not included in the working line. The right believes that there is a greater urgency in changing the requirement to receive housing support, so the dwelling must have a house-bank financing at the bottom. This is a rule that is totally unfair, and that drastically reduces the possibility for people with housing support to rent an apartment in an otherwise tight housing market. That is why we are very pleased that the government parties in Stortinget quickly copied the Right proposal and let it be part of the setting. However, I am disappointed that the Government could not be on the Right's other proposals for improvements. The most important thing would be to remove the functional requirement for solitude. It is totally unreasonable to demand that single persons have an apartment with separate kitchen, living room, bathroom, bedroom and entrance. I don't know anyone who lives in our cities, who's lonely and in full employment, who can afford that kind of apartment. This is just a requirement to keep people out of the housing support system. The rule also prevents municipalities from providing housing for the most vulnerable on the housing market, for example: addicted to sleep. With this I address the proposals that the Right promotes alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e224	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e229	So after hearing all of these concerns from Right Bent Höie, the answer is that the municipalities that have the least are going to get less, because the right will have the same framework that we want, but the tax needs to be further emphasised. That means that the rich are getting richer, and the poor are getting poorer. So we're going to cut to the right 250 million. kr to counties. My question is just related to it. Is it so that the Right believes that it should be cut in high school? For information, 250 million. NOK approx. 5000 student seats. Or should a take from the transport area: public transport and road maintenance? Or does the Right think that the county councils are wasting in the cultural sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e236	Just as the government has now thought in the last two years, the Right believes that the county municipalities have more to do than the municipalities. For this reason, the Right also proposes this year, in the same way as the Government, that county municipalities receive a smaller proportion of the income coverage than the demography would be required. However, unlike the government parties, the Right believes that the county councils today have undertaken a number of tasks that they are not required to do, but that they have undertaken, among other things. instead of the municipalities. This is why the Right wants county councils to focus on higher education, culture – the areas for which they are actually responsible. So within that arrangement, the county councils would get out better with the Right Order than with the Government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e241	I tried with a question to the Advance Party about quota refugees, and that they should cut the number of quota refugees after 2008, i.e. from 2009, but in 2008 they will only be consumed in Burmese. The progress party has then found out that it is those who need it the most, no matter what others may think. The answer was that the Progress Party is upright. There are also several comments on immigration and integration on the right. In these notes, the Right is very decent and really decent in many areas, with many good and wise input – the rose actually deserves the Right. The right is the exponent of cooperation with the Progress Party, and has expressed their desire to cooperate with the Progress Party. What do the Right and Advance Party share in terms of immigration and integration? I can't see that they have something in common from the comment that's here. So the question is, what do they really have in common?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e250	Based on the proposals in this setting, it is very little in common. However, it turned out that in the last period, when the Right put in government and promoted a number of issues on improving integration policy and clearing up immigration policy, the Right received broad support for that policy from both the Progress Party on the one hand and the Labour Party on the other. Those who were in many ways the outsiders of these discussions were in fact the Socialist Left Party, who is now in government and manages in an excellent way the policy put in place by the Right with the support of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in the previous period. What is disappointing is that the SV in this setting is not on the right on a number of good proposals, which would have improved the integration of those who are currently outside, namely women and children, for whom there is a need to make a significant boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e257	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e260	In the last two years, municipalities have been given a real economic boost. As a result of the previous two years and the budget approach adopted today, municipalities will have a real growth of over DKK 20 billion compared to 2005. In addition to these 20 billion, there will be DKK 8 billion in the form of increased tax revenue in addition to what was foreseen in the annual budget commitments. These increased tax revenues have not been passed on, but they have not been deducted in the year in which they came. The income growth of municipalities has been absolutely necessary due to four years of – yes, we can use the word starvation. Growth has come as a combination of earmarked transfers and free revenues. For 2008, the free revenues of municipalities have been prioritised. There is reason to recognise that the county framework should have been slightly larger — in order to provide full compensation for the increase in the number of students in secondary school. However, there is also reason to stress that, overall, the operating performance of county councils is significantly better than that of municipalities in recent years. It is therefore appropriate in 2008 to give priority to municipalities in terms of free income. There has been a broad political consensus on a large-scale kindergarten development. The increased state investment is fully financed. This has led us to approach the goal of full child care – it should be lacking in so far – and it is time. We also continued to invest in psychiatry, with an increase of approx. 400 million. kr. The relationship between free income and earmarked bets is a recurring problem. Using the earmarked bets for kindergarten development is correct. It is right to use the earmarked initiative to initiate new measures. These are short-term eye-marked bets. The relationship between earmarked bets and free revenues will change once kindergarten development is completed and we are at the forefront of the goal of full childcare coverage. Then we can always discuss whether it will have significant consequences when the money that is currently earmarked for kindergarten development goes into the municipal framework. Formally, it will mean more free income and less earmarking, but effectively the efforts of municipalities in the operation of kindergartens will be independent of whether the money comes as free money or as earmarked funds. Still, it's important to hold on to the goal, that about 50 pst. transfers shall be made free of charge. When the nursery funding goes into the framework, we'll probably be approaching 50 pst. The escalation of the introduction of free teaching material will continue in 2008. The budget allocates approx. 210 million. kr to cover the costs of introducing free teaching material for Vg3. If we assume that the costs of Vg1 will be at the same level as for Vg2 and Vg3, this will mean that the total investment costs of teaching materials will be between 800 and 900 million. kr. In this context, it is important that we also discuss what will happen next. The lifetime of educational material may be four to five years. This means that with an investment cost of 800 million to 900 million. kr the annual cost of renewing teaching material – buying new, replacing old, replacing worn out material – will be 200 million. kr. Once we've put in place the investments for teaching materials, it's important that an annual transfer of the order of 200 million. kr enters the framework, so that we can maintain a good, modern and real teaching material – with real textbooks. We must not get into the situation that many primary schools have been in, with educational material that is worn out, and where King Olav is still king in Norway. Renewal of teaching material is crucial. From the fall of 2008, the number of hours spent in primary school is increased by 5 hours. There are many good reasons to extend school days. It gives a working day for the students and teachers where there is time for more reflection and – hopefully – less stress and pressure. It should also allow for more and different activities that can promote learning. The framework for the school building interest rate support scheme has been exhausted. In total, it's spent 15 billion kroner. Much indicates that the scheme has worked well. Projects that would not otherwise have been realised have started. As I have said before, there is always a balance between ear-marked means versus free means. The majority of the Committee refers to the positive experience and asks the Ministry to consider various measures to ensure that the pressure on the rehabilitation of school buildings will be maintained. One of the major policy challenges is housing policy. We currently have a high level of housing construction. 34000-35000 housing units are built each year. We spend a lot of resources on housing, but the question is what we get out of it in terms of new units. Moreover, this contributes to creating a great deal of pressure in the economy. Despite a historically large expansion of housing in this country, there are still about 5,000 people without a permanent residence. It's a number that's been relatively stable over a long time. It is important that we manage to raise housing policy. And there's reason to be concerned with the way the resources within the housing structure are being allocated today. A future conscious, good and active housing policy must take place within the triangle municipality/housing co-operation/House Bank. It is important that we have municipalities that are active and that use the Planning and Building Act in such a way that good areas for housing can be developed. And it's important that we use the competence of housing co-operation to get good and sensible housing at the right price. It is also important that the Husbank is given an expanded role in terms of both funding and various support schemes. Developing and putting in place a forward-looking, wise and right housing policy within the triangle municipality/housing co-operation/husbank is perhaps the biggest challenge in the coming years. There are, as I said, too many people who are without a place of residence, and there are too many young people who are going to establish themselves in the housing market, who are meeting a price that they are not able to pay. So an active, targeted and conscious housing policy, where the state through the Husbank is a heavy player, is a major challenge primarily to allocate resources in a good and proper way, so that we get the housing we want. The contribution to training in Norwegian and social sciences for minorities is a major and important issue. The grant to the municipalities was previously based on an hourly grant. We've changed this, so there's now a grant per. person. The majority of the Committee stresses that this mechanism should be evaluated. I know that there will be an evaluation work going on – it may also be approaching the end – but it is important that we get a proper review, and that we are sure that this grant scheme, as it is now developed, meets, and that we get a proper distribution between municipalities. I have previously praised the Right that they are very good at immigration policy, and I am recording the proposals they have. Among other things, they want to expand the number of hours from 300 to 500. This is a good proposal, which we should all continue to look at whether that is the way we should go. But there is a need to strengthen this part of Norwegian training, in order to ensure better integration before it goes too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e297	SV-Representative Rolf Reikvam was appointed in the previous period in the Education Committee, and every time there was a news about bad things in Norwegian school, Reikvam owed it to a poor community economy, whether it was about large classes or about the closure of cross-country clubs. During this period his SV in government with Reikvam as co-manager of the municipal economy. The international PISA survey shows that Norwegian elephants are far behind the jamnal border in other countries. What will Reikvam owe you at this time? Is it still the government's arrangement for the local economy that is responsible for the poorness of Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e306	How bad Norwegian school is, we can always discuss. We can also discuss whether the PISA study is a good measuring instrument for how good Norwegian school is. But it shows that we're basically at the same level as we've done in the past through these studies, that we haven't been uplifted in these comparative studies. As I said, I don't think these comparative studies say so much about Norwegian school. They say something about how Norwegian students do it in terms of specific skills, but the school has a much larger and broader mission than just developing specific skills. But – and I would like to emphasise this strongly – it is important that Norwegian students can read satisfactorily when they leave Norwegian school. I think that one of the biggest challenges we have in improving school, is that it's the teacher's education. We have called for a change in teacher training, a strengthening of teacher training. And of course, it's also true that we're able to achieve an even better community economy. But it has been a strong growth for municipalities in recent years, over 28 billion kroner. It should also have given a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e313	The representative of Rikvam has recently expressed concern about the regional reform and whether it will be part of this reform. It's a concern that we might share, but with a slightly different starting point. My question is: if the reform is as it was adopted in Stortinget, and there is no more content than what was presented by the Government – because it is obvious where the discussion is now – does the representative Requam think that a sustainable reform has been achieved, or does he think it is time to start a new discussion on how Norway should be organised?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e321	It is clear that what the majority has adopted – what I have been involved in adopting, and what SV has been involved in adopting – is a sustainable reform. Of course. There can be no doubt that what is in the position of the Committee on Regional Reform is a very sustainable reform. And then some of us have come a little bit further. We still believe that there are several tasks that can be transferred to this level of the region. This has something to do with the democratisation of Norway, and it has something to do with creating life and creating a strong state. I hope and believe – I feel absolutely sure – that what is going to come out of the work that the ministry is now doing will be a scheme that is at least at the level that I believe is sustainable and to which the majority of the Grand Duchy joined. So I feel reasonably confident that we will bring about a good, sustainable and genuine democracy reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e328	Never have we had so much money to distribute, never have we had so much money to transfer to the municipalities in Norway, and never have the vast majority of Norwegians had it as well financially as we have today. One can also say that we have never had as good tools to combat poverty in Norway as we have this year. There are many good things that have come into this proposal and the state budget that we are now about to adopt for 2008. But what we miss on the part of the Christian People's Party is a real impoverishment. My questions to SV are: Is SV satisfied with the poverty rate in this budget? Does the SV not agree that we need to have a number of targeted actions to achieve it, that it does not benefit from just broad welfare schemes, which are good and good, but that we need targeted schemes to combat poverty in our own country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e337	I wish we had come further to fight poverty. There should be no need for us in Norway to be poor, there is no need to try to hide. We should have come further. But I would also like to stress that many of the stakes that lie there are targeted. For example, housing support is a targeted investment towards specific groups. I think that going on with housing, which many people have called for here, is a sensible way to go to meet those who have the worst. But there is one measure. We probably need a lot of measures to combat poverty so that we avoid what we shouldn't have, namely, that some people have a consumption – because that's what we're talking about – that's neither sound nor reasonable in relation to the consumption that they all have, most of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e347	There were not a few millions and billions scattered across the country in the local election campaign. I'm not surprised if the government actually managed to put a new world record in budget leaks this time. It is understandable that a government creatively cares about money for good purposes in an election campaign. The top of the tap bag was well when the then municipal minister Åslaug Haga actually managed to give the impression that the government granted an extra 2 billion kroner to the municipalities. On 5 September we met with the following news: ‘Minister of State Åslaug Haga spends two billion extra dollars on Kommune-Norway, five days before the elections. [[Sp]] There are additional tax receipts now distributed to municipalities reporting the NRK. The money will be allocated to the State budget, but the news was made known by Minister of State Haga on Wednesday.’ The central party may have gained some extra votes to give the impression that billions were allocated to the local government sector. But it would be clearer to say that this isn't billions of dollars in the government's gift, but billions of dollars are going to benefit the municipality because AS Norway is going very well. So the extra dollars are due to high activity in the economy and low unemployment, not that the government had granted even more money. The good economy is, among other things, a result of good industrial policy under the previous government. The escalation of the municipal economy began during Bondevik II and has been followed up by the incumbent government. That's good. But the Christian People's Party is concerned that the transfers to the municipalities reflect the actual costs. The municipality is the main provider of basic welfare services in the community. The members of the government of Stoltenberg use every opportunity to tell us how the municipalities under this government are able to solve their challenges. It may seem that the government of Stoltenberg has a different perception of reality than many others. Yes, municipalities have improved their economy in 2006, but since then, the increase in free income has been eaten up by demographic trends and price and wage growth. Now, local politicians around the country are struggling to get the maths up. There have been several people already involved. The government has given people enormous expectations of what you're going to get. Expectations are much greater than the municipalities can meet with their allocated resources. The revenue has increased, but it certainly has the bills as well. Unfortunately, the escalation of the municipal economy has stopped. The real economic space for the municipalities can fall in 2008. Most of the increase in transfers to municipalities is earmarked for good purposes such as kindergarten, resource-intensive services, NAV reform, psychiatry plan and investment into nursing homes. This is a good purpose that the Christian People's Party definitely supports. But the government must stop boasting that the municipalities are now getting more money to travel with, when the situation is such that the free income of the municipalities is rising less than the cost. The Christian People's Party increased the free income of the municipal sector in its alternative budget by 250 million. SEK, of which 50 million. SEK to counties and 200 million. kr to the municipalities. At the same time, we're subtracting 270 million. kr of the municipal framework, because the Christian People's Party will not give priority to increasing hours in primary school – but we're adding another 220 million. kr to teacher's lessons because we want to increase the teacher's density in the hours that students already have. In addition, the Christian People's Party wants to keep the 9.2 million. kr that the Government has transferred from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Equal Opportunities to the municipal framework as an earmarked grant. Voluntary organisations are important actors in the inclusion and integration of immigrants. These organisations have a unique competence and a network that the public must use. The Christian People's Party proposes in its alternative budget that the funding for the grant scheme for the operation of cross-border organisations in the field of migration be increased by 5 million. kr. Volunteering is an important addition to public relations when it comes to connecting people and following up individuals. The Christian Intercultural Work Organisation, KIA, is an example of an organisation that gets an impressive amount of homework, Norwegian courses, short-term kindergarten, etc. out of the money they get. It's thanks to the fires that work there, and that take to heart with much less pay than they would get elsewhere, and often do very much hard work. We need immigrants. We depend on immigrants to fill all the jobs in our country. Immigrants are the ransom gene, not the problem. We must work to make Norway an attractive alternative for workers from other countries. I believe, among other things, that we must offer free Norwegian training also to work immigrants. If we do not put in place measures to facilitate work migration in Norway, we will easily lose out in competition with other countries that are much better placed at geographical, climate and linguistic levels. We Norwegians tend to think that the whole world would like to live in Norway first, but it's not really like that. To the housing support: Now the government finally added a couple of tens of millions to the housing support arrangement. But it is unfortunately a very poor contribution if the Government's goal of eradicating poverty is to be achieved. Again, a review of the housing aid scheme is to simplify and renew the exposure. Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa said to Dagsavisen on 23 November 2002: ‘A debate on housing is necessary before Christmas. It is too long until the next harvest.» Now we are in 2007, and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has become the Council of State with power in its own hands. Can we now expect the notified review of the housing support to be soon on the table? In 2004, two years later, the Council of State stated to the same newspaper that DKK 3–4 billion is a low price to be paid to overcome poverty in Norway. She said the following: ‘I believe in that number, because in the Bondevik I government, we estimated that it would cost approx. two billion, since then the number of poor has increased.’ And on the other hand, «The number three to four billion says a lot about how limited this problem really is. And how great it is to make it right!" We follow with anticipation whether the Council of State gets the rest of the Government on just such a stake. So far, the red-green efforts for a social housing policy have been disappointing. Own dwelling is one of the most important welfare goods in society. The Christian People's Party wants to give a real boost to the housing system, and so we started the 90 million increase. kr extra in our alternative budget, so that the most disadvantaged in the housing market, which is currently outside the housing aid scheme, can be included in the scheme. Modernisation of the public sector is essential to ensure the well-being of individuals and to manage resources properly. The starting point for the renewal work must be to ensure good and worthwhile well-being for future generations, and to address seriously the challenges that population development presents to us. Conversion and renewal are essential in order to ensure sufficient labour in important welfare areas in the coming years. We don't solve the welfare challenges just with money, we have to have hands and heads. Competitive labour is needed to ensure full child-care coverage and quality in school. Several older people lead to a greater need for care services. I miss an overall strategy for the renewal and improvement of the public sector that includes just this: new and concrete proposals on how to solve this challenge that becomes challenge No. 1 in the years to come. Furthermore, public information and public services must be available to all citizens. It is therefore important to have universal design also on electronic services. There must be flexible opening times in public offices, so that it is possible for the public to get there. In conclusion, the Christian People's Party is busy in the districts and that conditions are facilitated for a positive development throughout the country. Through different instruments, focus must be shifted from moving to moving. We need to focus in particular on young people and women in district and regional policy. It is necessary to pursue a policy that makes it attractive for this group to settle in the districts. In addition, the voluntary sector is a prerequisite for a rich life throughout Norway. Idealism and good spirit must continue to be rewarded and encouraged.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e400	The Christian People's Party, like the Workers' Party, is concerned with strong and good municipal welfare offers, and that these welfare offers must be composed of local elected representatives who know their own municipality and neighbourhood best. At the same time, we see that, in particular, one party in this Chamber is very much in favour of price financing and central government, namely the Progress Party. The latter party has invited the Christian People's Party into the government heat from 2009. What does the representative of Tørresdal think about this invitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e407	I get to thank you for the questions, that was at least two questions. One was about future government cooperation, and I think we should let that lie until we approach a big choice, and then we come back strongly with that debate. The second issue that is very relevant in this context is the question of price financing, or central governance, to which the Progress Party refers. The Christian People's Party believes in local democracy. We want to transfer power and authority to our local politicians, and we are sure they manage it in a good way. There we agree with the red-green government that we want to transfer the framework and that the priority should be local.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e414	There is reason to commend Bjørg Tørresdal for her strong commitment to immigration and integration policy. It's obviously a strong and real commitment. I have to get back to the Progress Party again, and what they write in this setting. They write a lot about integration and immigration policy, which has been said many times. I assume that Bjørg Tørresdal has also read it. For many of us, it's so unpleasant reading that we have to record it multiple times. Now we're not going to talk about government cooperation after 2009 or things like that, but my question to Bjørg Tørresdal is: From what the Progress Party writes and from the human vision that lies in these remarks – on minorities, not only immigrants, but also along with others, everything is included in a buttercutter – and that must be fundamentally contrary to the vision Bjørg Tørresdal represents, does Bjørg Tørresdal see that there can be any possibility for the Christian People's Party to cooperate with the Advancement Party in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e423	I am very pleased that there is a broad majority for the immigration policy pursued in this country, and that majority consists of very many cases of all parties outside the Progress Party. In this way, our immigration policy is formulated by quite broad consensus, and then we disagree on some points. It is very rare that the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party come together on immigration policy issues. It's an area where we're often counterpolar. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about having a fair policy, where we are committed to giving protection to those who need it, and having good arrangements for, for example. increased labour migration. We are also concerned that integration will succeed, and are committed to strengthening the voluntary work done to achieve more successful integration. It surprises us that even there is a distance between the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – one would think that the Advance Party would support the voluntary organizations much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e428	It was very interesting to hear the comments of the representative Tørresdal. The Christian People's Party is now increasingly showing, two years after they left the government quarter, that they are concerned with the welfare of the municipalities. Then is my question to the representative of Tørresdal: with whom does the Christian People's Party believe that the best way to secure Community solutions, local well-being and, as was also mentioned in particular in the article, a good rural policy? With whom can you best solve these problems, with the right-hand side or with us on the red-green side?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e436	My answer is quite obvious. It is in the centre that policy is best. It will be in cooperation with the Centre Party that you can achieve a truly good agricultural policy and a good rural policy. We have long experience, over many years, and in many different constellations in Stortinget, we have had the same view as the Center Party, and we want to continue that cooperation. With regard to the debate on what we are doing in relation to the next major elections, I just want to repeat that it will be taken later. But the Christian People's Party wants to strengthen the community economy, we want offensive and active district policies, and we want a good agricultural policy. We have all of this in common with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e448	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e451	In the Central Party we are pleased that so far this year there has been a clear increase in the number of small municipalities that experience increased relocation. In addition, there are far fewer municipalities on the feared ROBEK list. We're going to have far more than the 10,000 new year shifts in care by 2009. The coverage in kindergartens is 85 pst. We're happy in a lot of ways, but we're so far away from the goal. We are also pleased with the commitment of the Government to the community services for which the local government sector is responsible. A growth in revenue in addition to the wage and price growth of DKK 21 billion over the last few years is 8 pst. There is a lot, but the escalation must continue, for expenses of wages and pensions, etc. is big. For the red-green government, it is absolutely vital that people can get equivalent services regardless of where they live. It is therefore essential that imbalances in the income system be corrected before the next budgetary procedure. The suggestions of the Sørheim Committee provide some of the basis. Tax-deprived municipalities, municipalities with very strong growth or decline in the population need to get out better. Fortunately, there is broad consensus on the Storting that the content, quality and quantity of care and care for the elderly need to be improved. The conciliation procedure, which was not attended by only two parties, provides the basis for the necessary bet by the State. It is not least important to better understand the need for housing, while at the same time providing better facilities for those who want to live at home. There are great economic gains to be gained by the organisation of housing and services so that older people and their relatives feel secure by living at home longer. Care allowances for dependants and lay-offs may be decisive for the time to be allowed to run out of time at home. According to figures from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, one sick home place costs NOK 660 000 in 2006. For the same sum, five older people could get good help at home for an entire year. In the 2008 budget, it is set at 5 million. kr to establish a grant for the construction of a lift in older housing blocks, just so that older people can get it easier. There is one example of a state initiative for positive interaction between the state, the municipality, the Husbank and private. That's good. The 2008 budget provides the basis for commitments to provide investment grants to 1000 units of housing in nursing homes or housing with a day-to-day care. It is estimated that by 2015 the need will be 12 000 housing units. In our view, the scale of development needs to be adapted to different needs. There are considerable variations in the needs of municipalities, not least due to differences in population and age composition. We are concerned with decentralization and are pleased with the strong effort to reduce the distance constraints that this government is behind. In particular, increases in transport appropriations, including broadband, are important. It creates optimism. We look forward to the announced commitment to more social housing policies, including: the modification of the housing aid scheme so that more people with poor finances can receive support. The household bank needs to be given increased opportunities to provide loans and grants, in order to have a greater influence on investment in the housing sector to promote social objectives. The newly elected local government and county councils will face major challenges in care and school. Among other things, from the fall there will be five new hours in primary school. However, climate challenges can also lead to new tasks of significant scale. The media's keen searchlight and high-quality expectations will help to make the job important and exciting for employees and elected people, provided that we ensure a good enough economy here. That must be our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e477	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e480	There's a big lag in maintenance in Kommune-Norway. It's in the billions class of many municipal buildings. It's big values that fall and rot on the root. With the Central Party and the Government budget, the interest compensation scheme has not been continued, with the consequences it has for the maintenance of school buildings and church buildings. The centre lot has been occupied with this before. The representative, Mr. Enger, did not comment on this in his budget statement. I have a question: what makes the Central Party not want to prioritize this good system in order to avoid large amounts of value falling due in Kommune-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e487	I agree with the replicator that this has been a very good arrangement. It began in 2002, and we have upgraded very many good school buildings after that time. The scheme has not been continued. This is due, inter alia, to: that the local economy has improved. But I also think that's how we have to find other forms of incentives. I therefore expect the government to take a closer look at it, because some incentives are needed to allow municipalities to maintain their schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e494	The programme of the Centre Party for this period states that they will: «strengthen the local government sector through more free financial resources, primarily by increasing the proportion of the local government in the taxpayer». Now the Central Party has had the Minister of State for over two years. Both in 2007 and 2008 there is a reduction in the free income of municipalities. The municipal taxpayer has been reduced both in 2006, in 2007, and now in 2008. What is the reason why the Center Party, responsible for the Ministry of Local Affairs, is doing the opposite of what is in the Center Party's programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e506	Now we're in cooperation with several parties in this government. We have not followed up exactly what the replicator said, but in several different ways we have tried to do it so that the municipalities would have better finances. I don't have to go that far, when I say that over the last few years, the municipalities have received 21 billion in addition, plus that they have retained the increased tax income that it has also, fortunately, been in these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e511	I'd like to go back to this interest compensation scheme, or the loan scheme, for church buildings and schools. Now it is true that even if you have had this scheme since 2002, and it has been a successful scheme, not all constructions have been refurbished. It has been a very successful system, accurate and targeted. It has enabled municipalities to borrow and support them to operate these loans. It has been very stimulating on this particular maintenance work. I'm glad that the representative Enger will take this up with the Government, but it's not too late to turn around, we've revised. Is it not reasonable to do as the Christian People's Party has done, to grant money for interest compensation, to continue the arrangement, to extend the loan framework as soon as you have money and opportunity, to have a good order while waiting for other types of subsidies for maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e520	I see clearly what Tørresdal is saying here, and I'm going to be the first to stress that this has been a very good arrangement. I think we have numbers that there are almost 1,200 school buildings that have been established by this scheme. We also know that we have had the same system of church buildings. It was perhaps what put the representative Tørresdal on this to come back to it in the revised, because it happened to church buildings last year. At that time, the arrangements were removed in the ordinary budgetary procedure, but in the revision they were brought back again. For one thing, I have to say that it was no stupid idea. So we'll see what can happen here, there are many that can affect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e528	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e531	I want, first of all, to raise the area of integration and immigration, and the representative, Mr Skkelstad, comes back to the positions of the Left in terms of purely municipal policy. In fact, integration work in Norway is quite good. If we compare ourselves with very many other European countries, we are doing quite a lot of good work for integration in Norway. But some municipalities have special challenges because of developments. Therefore, it is important for the Left to enable these municipalities to initiate municipal immigration measures. That's why we're increasing the postage by $15 million. kr in this area. We have great faith in the local initiative, we have great faith in the voluntary sector in integration work, and we have seen how successful a lot of the work done in Oslo's inner East is. We now see that the challenges are increasing more and more in Søndre Nordstrand and in Drammen We must focus on good prevention work in this area. As in a lot of other areas, when it comes to integrating people, when it's about creating friends' networks, when it's about participating in society around it, it doesn't just happen by deciding that you should do it, but by actually engaging voluntary organisations, engaging in local networks, and doing schools and other important common arenas for that kind of work. We've seen a lot of the bet that's been in Oslo's inner east, so it's been very successful. I think it's very funny to see those results, for example. Some of the schools in the inner east have in terms of reading, when we see how they have systematically worked on it. We are also quite proud of the work we did in the previous government regarding the reception of newly arrived refugees. But there's more coming than just those that fall into that category. Therefore, it is important to focus on actions in non-governmental organisations and municipalities in order to reach this group as well. That's why we've done $10 million. kr also for that purpose. I have noticed SV's zeal in the reply earlier on regarding quota refugees. The left is actually the batch that increases the number of quota refugees via the UN from 1200 to 1700 in this budget. Libe Rieber-Mohn said at the Political Quarter on 15 October that the Government was really trying to increase this; the Soria Moria statement says, after all, that one should accept 1500, but that there was no room for it in this budget. In the alternative budget of the Left, there was room for that, and I'm very happy about that. It's actually international obligations that we're here to assume. It's actually the UN High Commissioner who asked us to do the job. It is a great international commitment, which it is important that we, as such a rich country, take our share of it when we know how much of this is taken by the very poorest countries. Good integration is also a good start in Norway. The recent debates and the recent lessons are that we could probably have had a much more efficient and faster handling of applications. The queue in which people stand is causing many to get off to a bad start in Norway. That is why the Left, together with the Right and the Christian People's Party, has put forward proposals for a review of the UDI and UNE to streamline and eliminate the queues that are there. The municipalities have also given us feedback. The local authorities' feedback is quite different from the pathos that are being carried out by the government parties here from the pulpit, but that's what we're going to get back to. They have said, among other things: that it is difficult to obtain good language teaching for many of the refugees located around the municipalities. That's why the left has added 15 million. kr more than the Government to get to it. We also support a proposal together with the Right and Christian People's Party to extend Norwegian education in the introduction course to 500 hours. I also want to make a little comment about the Data Protection Agency, as was said here from the pulpit was worth 1 million. kr. In this case, there is some creative accounting, because everyone knows that the wage and price costs have to be included here, and in this context, the Data Protection Authority has actually got a cut. I will come back to it when the Annual Report of the Swedish Data Protection Authority is processed later today. I want to bring up the proposals that the Left is on. So I would like to point out that we want to support the proposal No. 23, 24 and 25, from the right hand and from the Christian people, who are in the middle of the budget. S. No 5th@item: inlistbox Then by incubation it has become a mistake in Innst. S. No 81, on page 3. The Left shall support the comments of the Right and the Advance Party in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e563	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. The correction made by the representative is noted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e570	In the setting being considered today, we see why there is no credible government option for the sitting red-green government. The Progress Party and the Left strongly disagree on immigration and integration policy. It is difficult, if not impossible, to imagine that the two parties will be able to cooperate on these issues of government. How will the representative Skei Grande describe the immigration and integration policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e577	Yeah, that's a perfectly correct observation. It will be impossible for the Left and the Progressive Party to agree on a government platform on policy in this area, whether there are certainly many other areas where we can agree. But my description of the Progress Party's policy is that it's a very group thinking. It is a group approach reminiscent of political ideologies other than what is traditional in the bourgeois approach to political issues. You treat people as groups, and not as individuals with rights on the basis of the conventions to which we have attached ourselves. I believe that is a violation of bourgeois thinking. But we're going to be able to get a government option even beyond this. So we can take it easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e584	I was a little surprised at what was said about the Data Protection Authority and the Privacy Policy. It is an indisputable fact, no matter how you calculate – at least if you count in the usual way – that there is a rather strong growth in percent to the Data Protection Agency, and that we have now added 1 million. kr in addition to that which was there. Well, that was plus initially, so let's add 1 million. I got another 4 pst, no matter how we turn it around. And the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Unit, which are now divided into two, are getting a pretty big real growth for the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Unit. So I don't understand what the representative meant that there's no growth here, because it's a pretty big real growth when we see these two together, and also a real growth if we see the Data Protection Authority alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e591	I might have thought that Rolf Rikvam would ask me about quota refugees, but it didn't matter. We believe that the tasks assigned to the Data Protection Agency have increased, we believe that there are price and pay increases here, and all of these things together lead to the fact that the Data Protection Agency, which is increasingly under pressure, with more tasks and more challenges, actually experiences even less room for action than they have. The left has added even more money than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e598	We'll get it done," says Skei Grande in terms of getting a civil government option in place. I really think it's taking quite big words in its mouth. I do not understand how this is going to work, because the Progress Party has said that there will be no bourgeois government without the Progress Party being involved. Then my question to the Left is: how are you going to be able to stack on your legs a government option that has a twist of credibility in it? I just have to say that the longer this debate goes, the clearer it becomes to me that it cracks in every direction – we see it, among other things. in terms of local democracy, we see it in terms of immigration and integration, we see it in terms of common policies, we see it in terms of territory. What is a credible alternative? What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e605	In fact, this government is based on being a majority government. When it no longer has a majority in the Storting, the basis of this government and the philosophy behind this government is broken. I may not think that people are going to go in large mass marches in connection with the next elections because majority governments are the only thing that creates democracy, the only thing that creates an absence debate, the only thing that doesn't make us actually have government partners demonstrating on the front page of the Great Government, against our own government. I believe that the chaos created by this majority government makes the popular appeal for a majority government disappear, and that minority governments, which also bring more democracy back in public debate and make the Great Britain a more important role in the future, may be a better political solution than the majority government is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e612	That's when the queue change ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e615	The municipalities have delivered. During 2006 and 2007, almost 25 000 more children will have had kindergartens. If we base the KOSTRA figures and the SSB's accounts for 2007, the municipalities have put in place about 9,800 new annual works before care and care. The SSB's figures show that the municipalities of one year have spent about $2.5 billion more on school. We have provided a basis for equivalent services in municipalities. The 2008 budget provides room for several hands in care, more money for school, more money for resource-requiring services and more childcare facilities. This could mean that nearly 30,000 more children have been accommodated in kindergarten, and that one has received more than 10,000 more annual jobs in nursing and care and several hours in school. The number of ROBEK municipalities has declined from 118 in 2004 to historically low 42 in 2007. In spite of this, I would like to point out that I am humble to all the municipalities that are currently struggling with the balance of the economy. We're not in target. There is still a imbalance between tasks and means, which requires a further escalation. It also requires municipalities to focus on how to get the best possible services for the money. It is a pleasure for me to announce that there are now 90 municipalities in the quality municipality programme. This means that in 90 municipalities it is added, leaders and people elected around the same table and looks at how they can get the best possible services in their own municipality. Everyone also focuses on how they can take better care of those who add and reduce sick leave. It's like 1 pst. reduction in sick leave in municipalities is SEK 1.5 billion in freed funds for services. It's the government's goal to get everyone busted where they want to. If we are to achieve that goal, we must ensure that there are jobs, good welfare and a lack of leisure provision in different communities. The government has performed a district policy reverse operation. That's why we're betting on the municipalities. For this reason, we have implemented the differentiated employer fee, a regional policy tool of 11 billion kroner per person. So we're about to introduce a cultural lift. Moving data from 2007 show that there are now 73 more municipalities experiencing net migration than in 2004. It tells us that the reverse operation is in progress, and it tells us that it is important to focus more on everything from young entrepreneurship and new growth businesses to urban development, as well as on everything that has been done in the past. It's the government's goal that everyone should have a housing to organize their lives from within. It means better support. This involves attempts at Start-up loans; 25 municipalities should now try out a shared-risk scheme. It also involves a series of attempts to solve different problems for people with different needs. And that means that, as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, I have to do what I can to get the most out of the resources we have. For this reason, we have already submitted changes to the housing lease agreement and the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law Husleigelova has been sent on a hearing; the law on the wall has been sent to Stortinget. Therefore, we have notified a review of the bumps. And so it is also important in the future to ensure that the tools we have – housing support, housing support and start-up loans – are also used together. I'm very happy to be met with quotes from what I said in 2002, but what's so sad is that there was little will from the government that was then, to bet as actively as she should at that time, to correct Difference Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e634	The Council of State does not rule out that several municipalities are going to hit a click after the Terra case. The question is how many. The Terra thing is a scandal, we can all agree on that. It is a scandal for the inhabitants of the municipalities that are affected. Governments have indicated measures, that they want to examine the actors in the Terra case and limit what municipalities can borrow money for. But what is the consequence for these municipalities of the economy? What will this scandal cost the state? How much will this scandal cost the countyman? And how much of the government's discretion has to agree to this scandal? Is this the economic bomb of the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e639	Let me stress that the government is looking at the situation in the municipalities we know so far, which are very serious. We have sent letters to all the spokesmen to ask them to check out their own financial regulations, whether they comply with the regulations, and whether it is in line with the local authorities. We have asked all statesmen to review and carry out legal checks. So far, it's known that this applies to eight municipalities. What must now be a bod no. One must be to get an overview. These municipalities have recently reported that they assume that they have a loss of nearly 400 million. kr. I ask for an understanding that I cannot go further in detail in this matter before Bod No. 1, summary, is met.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e644	In the election campaign, the former municipal minister, Åslaug Haga, was out and promised that the poor municipalities would receive more money. She was asked by NTB on 24 August that this would mean that the rich municipalities would get less money. Then the municipal minister replied: ‘I believe it is possible to strengthen poor municipalities in a good way, and that we do not penalise those municipalities with high tax revenues.’ And she said, ‘Extra money until the poor municipalities come from the state fund.’ Later in the election campaign, Åslaug Haga also had a play on removal municipalities. On August 31, Åslaug Haga said to the Newspaper: ‘Both transfer municipalities and removal municipalities must receive more money from the cake to be distributed.’ When she was asked if there were municipalities with stable population that would take the bill, she said: ‘No, I recognise that a new system must be lubricated with fresh money at first. Here, the state must fill with a few billion dollars so that no one loses on the transition." My question is: will the new municipal minister maintain the promises of the previous municipal minister from the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e669	Let me first express my joy at the fact that the Right, at Bent Höie, is so busy strengthening the community, and thus the municipal economy of all municipalities. I, as former leader of the municipal committee experience, have not been the case too soon back in this room, so it's very joyful. Then I'm going to promise the Government to do what it can to present a new and more equitable income system in the municipal proposition. I still think it's important to focus on the relocation municipalities, on the municipalities that are growing, and on some big cities with very special challenges. We're going to go through both the Sørheim selection and the hearing statements there and the Borge selection, which is already there. The result must be presented for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e676	First, a comment on the statements made by the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa in 2002 and 2004, which I quoted. They were meant to be a reminder both of the urgent need for a new and more targeted housing policy and of the fact that there was a great deal – in the order of DKK 3 to 4 billion – that had to be done at the time to tackle poverty. It was to appease her that this must come quickly. So to a concrete question. We have some fresh quotes from this room today, from the representative, Enger, who is very positive about assessing the interest compensation scheme, or filling it in, in terms of extending the loan framework and granting a few million to interest compensation. Now, State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa is very close to that decision. Can she promise us that she will give priority to making an extension of the interest compensation, i.e. the loan scheme, for church buildings and schools as soon as she has the money for it – preferably in revised form?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e683	For the first time, I can confirm that these loan schemes for school buildings were so popular that they were actually met two years before they were supposed to. NOK 15 billion was met before the expected time. Then there will be a balance between continuing to invest in loan schemes, or focusing primarily on direct transfers to enable municipalities to provide both better services and better maintenance. It's, as the representative knows, a great aftertaste of maintenance. What will the Government do? Now in the budget, we've seen that what the government concluded with was securing a handful of money for the municipalities. We're going to evaluate this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e688	An important job for us politicians is to be an agent and a listening station for what's really going on among people. Today it has been a little confusing for me, because we started the debate with a tribute from Mr. The garden hill about how great everything has been in the municipalities. Everything could now be done, at least what was important, and what you wanted. With what's behind us, we read that the Minister of Knowledge is very concerned about the cuts that happen in the schools around the municipalities. I thought I would refer from an e-mail that came from a local government representative who does not live so far from the municipality of Hagebakken, namely in East Toten. Day The onion has written an e-mail to me that you have a real growth of minus 0.77. He continues to write about how, as a left-winger, he must cut 3.2 million. kr in the teaching of his own municipality, he who thought this was Regeringa's large bet area. My amazement is: Is it the Minister of Knowledge and the Day of the Onion in the East that is right, or is it the Hage Hill that is right in its reality here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e697	I do not know the details of the municipal budget for East Toten. What I'm going to assume is that the Eastern Death has also got its share of the 21 billion dollars that the municipalities are now actually raising. So it's going to be 21 billion dollars higher. But as I said in my post, we're not in the goal. As you know, Kommune-Noreg has been underfunded for a long time. It wasn't that field, for example. the government of the Left was the highest priority. So there's a lot to do again. It is my goal that there should be a match between tasks and means. Then I believe both East Toten, Hagebakken and Trine Skei Grande will be pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e702	In my previous question, I addressed the Terra scandal, which will have major consequences for the citizens living in the affected municipalities. I did not get an answer to all my questions. What are the consequences for these eight municipalities that now apply? It may be appropriate to use the State's discretionary means, possibly contributing even more to the fact that the citizens of these eight municipalities who are affected must not suffer from the absence of consequences for the offer made by the municipalities. There is no doubt that this will be an economic bomb for these municipalities, so here the state has to contribute. I think the Council of State should be able to signal something – at least in the case of these eight municipalities that have already been surveyed – when you see the amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e713	Let me stress that it has actually taken a very long time for each municipality to get an overview of what has happened, what they have lost, what is legal, what may have happened to the crime here. It's e.g. so that the municipality of Haugesund as late as the previous week had not yet been able to obtain the necessary paper for the county, which is to carry out legal checks. Therefore, I would like to stress that I, as the Progress Party, am impatient to move forward, but we must actually give the individual municipality – and they are very different – the necessary time. Then the statutory tasks that local authorities have set to solve must be resolved. Which way do we have to figure out at a later point in time than now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e722	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e725	It's going well in the Norwegian economy. Unfortunately, the municipality of Norway does not experience it. It is clear that the bet from the Government and Hagebakken at Kommune-Norway is over. All the expectations the municipal politicians had for this government have disappeared completely. The Progress Party has presented a modern and forward-looking budget. The government's proposal for a government budget is bad reading for the country's municipal politicians. Strong growth in, among others: compensation of employees, without corresponding increase in income for municipalities, means that the provision of services to the population is severely affected. The Progress Party is concerned that the Government and the Hagebakken are not taking this difficult situation seriously. The rhetoric from Hagebakken that the municipalities are receiving record transfers does not harmonize with the reality of the individual municipality. There is no agreement between what the Government and the Hagebakken say, and what they do. More money for kindergartens does not give more money to pay nurses, teachers or assistants. It is clear that Norwegian municipalities do not receive a real increase in revenue for 2008 but actually a decrease. This is documented by KS. This is mainly due to increased expenditure on wages and pensions, which is not affected by municipalities. Unfortunately, in many cases this means cutting the supply of elderly care, psychiatry and care to the population. This must be the responsibility of the red-green government. Even local politicians are becoming desperate around the municipality of Norway. They do anything, it seems, to increase the income of the municipalities and to maintain a minimum offer for the inhabitants. We see, for example: what some worker party-driven municipalities have done when they have entered into cooperation, close cooperation, with Terra. The positive thing is that there are currently only eight municipalities. They hope they can increase the income of municipalities large. They're waiting for the big Lotto win. With the government budget, the interest-rate compensation scheme has not been continued, with the consequences it has for the maintenance of school buildings and church buildings. It's a huge aftertaste of maintenance in the billions class of municipal buildings. There is also a great deal of lag in the maintenance of municipal roads. None of this has any room for the Government. There are great values here, and they're decaying and rotting on the root. Many municipalities, which I regret most, have introduced property taxes – an additional tax that makes unfair – in order to finance all the promises of the Government. Workers' party-run municipalities say that it would be difficult to get the budget into port without the property tax, and emphasise that the property tax actually saved the building's school, and that with the additional tax that hits so unfairly. The garden hill claims that municipalities will receive a significant increase in transfers from the state next year, but the budget shows that when the earmarked and promised funds from the Government are distributed, there is really little extra fresh funds for the municipalities. Population changes, with several older people and young people in the municipality, represent an additional cost for municipalities of DKK 1.5 billion. Under-coverage of the NAV reform is also an additional cost for municipalities. The maintenance run, which I was in on, on municipal buildings will cost the municipalities up to NOK 100 billion, and there is a aftermath on municipal and county roads of the order of NOK 28 billion. The Progress Party has an entirely alternative economic policy, as Hagebakken calls populism. Is it populism to prevent crises in municipalities? Is it populism to prevent the inhabitants of the municipality from being harmed? The Progress Party provides for an increase in the income of municipalities, with earmarked funds for the care of the elderly and more resources for the school. I think it's not just an income problem that gives today's municipalities a tight financial leeway. Many municipalities also suffer from a cost problem. On the one hand, the victims of government orders and reforms have been underfunded. The Progress Party considers that the current model for financing the municipal sector is not appropriate, as several speakers have pointed out. There's something we have to do with, and come back to. Local politicians should be paid to create businesses in the municipalities. Several municipalities must work actively and purposefully to attract jobs and businesses. In many cases, this is about localisations where the alternative for enterprises will be to localise elsewhere. I am concerned that these municipalities are rewarded through the income system. Higher value creation across the country is a prerequisite for ensuring the level of well-being and housing. I believe that budget exceedances in the municipalities must have a greater impact on the responsible leaders, and I am pleased that the Council of State is looking at the Terra scandal and assessing it as a whole. In this way, the proceedings may be subject to a continuous assessment and to an improvement in efficiency for the benefit of the citizens. We have to work to ensure that the citizens receive the services they require, regardless of the municipality in which they live. I have one positive feedback to the Government in conclusion, and there is a new policy in place, and there are ‘resource-intensive services’ in the municipalities. A single price mechanism has been put in place to ensure services to users. Such a scheme shall contribute to ensuring a level playing field throughout the country. This has been put in place by the Government after a steady record and pressure from the Progress Party. So it's a happy message to everyone who needs those services. The Progress Party regards the growing bureaucracy as a threat to Norwegian democracy because of the intransigence that exists in the administration. The party to the progress is of the opinion that public activities need to make greater use of instruments such as tenders, privatisation, competitive incentives and that there must be specific justification if these principles and instruments are not to be used by public undertakings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e761	I think it's been interesting to follow the debate, and I'm going to focus on immigration and integration policy, naturally. Let me start by trying to raise my eyes, and give some general considerations first and foremost. I think that as politicians we can sometimes ask ourselves some simple questions, and have the answers to the simple questions as the starting point for our assessments. Many times since I became the Council of State responsible for this field, I have asked myself the question: Is immigration to Norway good for Norway? Does it contribute to anything positive? Or is immigration to Norway a problem for Norway, which contributes to something negative? The answer to these questions for me and for the Government is that immigration to Norway is positive. Immigration to Norway contributes positively. Immigration to Norway is good for Norway. Why? Well, there are a lot of ways to analyze it, but let me just make a very brief reference to the positive that immigration means to the labour market. We see, not least now, that the fact that tens of thousands of immigrants, both the first generation and their descendants, go to work every day – they get up in the morning and go to work – contributes very positively. Without them, the Norwegian labour market would have had significantly greater problems than it has – and it already has major problems. Not least, we see it very clearly here in the city we are now in, where the immigrant population makes sure that care for the elderly is going around, that hospitals are going around, that the bus, the tram and the T-Bahn are going, that is, in areas by area, we see that the immigrant population is helping to keep the work going. In addition, I would also say that although it would not have been profitable for us, even if it had not been so that this contributed positively to the development of the Norwegian labour market, I believe that diversity in itself is good for Norway. I am happy to live in a diverse Norway – multicultural Norway makes us a more exciting country, a more interesting country, a more creative country. We would have been poorer without the multicultural society. Immigration is therefore good for Norway. That means that we have to meet our obligations to give residence to people who need protection. We're going to take international responsibility and accept quota refugees. We are in order for marriage to be concluded across borders and for families to be able to form a basis for reunification in Norway. We are in favour of labour immigration to Norway. However, immigration also requires active integration policies on the part of the authorities, and an integrated approach is needed in integration and immigration policies. When people come to Norway and apply for a stay in Norway, we need to have a prompt and sound procedure by the foreign authorities. We must have decent conditions in the waiting time for the asylum recipients, such as. The introduction of Norwegian training is now an important contribution. We must actively return for those who are refused, who do not receive a valid residence permit in Norway. We need to have a quick settlement for those who are allowed to stay, so that we can start integrating as quickly as possible into the municipality in which they will live. We need a good introduction system with a strong focus on Norwegian training. We need a strong focus on transition to work or education, and we need measures to ensure that Norwegian law is followed by everyone in this country. That is why we must, among other things, combat coercion. My opinion is that the Government rates along this whole line in the draft budget for next year. The action plan for integration and inclusion, as established by this government, is further strengthened. It's increasing from this level this year, which is 430 million. NOK 650 million. in the action plan for next year. I recall that this means that during the financial years 2006, 2007 and 2008, the Government has invested more than DKK 1 billion in implementing measures for integration and inclusion. Norwegian training is being strengthened. We have had difficulty finding a good Norwegian training grant system. The previous government introduced a grant system – probably with the best intentions – that has proved to be ineffective. Therefore, we have had to realize that the subsidy system we have today is not satisfactory in order to obtain a good funding for Norwegian training around the municipality of Norway. What we are doing in the budget for 2008 is primarily helping to raise the level of appropriations. We say very clearly that in addition to 2008 we will have a future grant scheme that we will present to the Budget for 2009. Another important element of the Action Plan for Integration and Inclusion is that we expand the focus on free core time in kindergartens. The representative of Trine Skei Grande was concerned about how important it is to cooperate with municipalities with extra major challenges in order to get good action in such municipalities. Free core time is a collaboration between the State and the Municipality of Oslo that all four- and five-year-olds throughout the Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand now have free core time in kindergartens. It is also important for me to say that we have now cooperated with the municipality of Drammen, which means that this year the municipality of Drammen will start an offer of free core time for a lot of kids in Drammen, starting this year. We're strengthening the foreign administration by 178 million. kr. It is also in order to ensure action in the overall immigration and integration plan. We are increasing the processing capacity because we agree that excessive foreign-exchange payments are destructive to good integration work. We are now phased in by electronic processing. It's quite amazing that this isn't already established in a system that's as paper-based as the foreign administration is. We are increasing the host municipality compensation, so that the municipalities that have today reinforced their reception and who have had a large cost of having reinforced departments at their reception are now fully covered. We strengthen the return work by e.g. to enable us to have more foreign Attachés in place at several foreign stations. Last but not least, in the draft budget, there is a heavy commitment to measures against coercion. 70 million. Allowed to employ minority advisers at the higher education schools with the highest proportion of pupils with a migrant background. We set up integration advisors to be employed at those foreign stations where we have the greatest challenges in helping Norwegian citizens who may be exposed to plans for forced marriage. We strengthen cooperation with non-governmental organisations, and we establish our own improved provision of housing for young people who have to break up with their families because they fear that they may be pressured into forced marriage. The sum of this is, in my view, that the Government is pursuing a comprehensive immigration and integration policy, not without there still being challenges, but we are addressing the whole chain, which immigration and integration policies require us to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e787	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e790	It is very interesting to hear from State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen as he brings out the greatest benefits of the massive immigration we have experienced in Norway in the last ten years. What he lists first as an argument for immigration to Norway is the need for labour. Then it's a little strange that he's talking to a better person, that he's talking the wrong way, contrary to what the most important organisation in Norwegian working life might say fairly clearly, namely that we have to limit immigration to Norway. Massive immigration is no solution to the challenges we face in terms of labour shortages. They provide a long way to go for the immigration policy of the Progress Party as a solution to the challenges we face. Is the Council of State here completely on a collision course with the world of work, or is it such that the NHO has not understood anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e797	I think you almost have to be from the Progress Party to realize that the Norwegian labour market would have worked if the immigrant population had gone home tomorrow. I think it is quite impressive that it is a demanding analysis for the representative Amundsen to hang on to. If everyone who came here and got a stay in Norway, consistently against the recommendations and wishes of the Progress Party, had not gone to work tomorrow, the senior care in Oslo would have stopped, the hospitals in Oslo would have stopped, people would not have gotten to work because the T-Bahn had not gone, the bus had not gone, the tram had not gone. It would have been a complete stop in Norwegian working life at all. The reasoning that I've led is no more advanced than that. I am absolutely sure that the NHO agrees with me on this, but the alarming thing is that the Progress Party is not able to join in such a simple analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e804	In the VG on 31 October 2005, state councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says that integration becomes job no. 1, and in this regard he criticises his predecessor – completely unjustly in the eyes of the Right. But I'm not going to ram up what Erna Solberg did, now, just refer to what the state council itself has framed by measures in the state budget, and note that there are actually only measures against coercion that go on integration. The right has in its budget a number of proposals which are being integrated. We want to have language mapping of everyone at four-yearly checks, both in the city and built throughout the country, we want to increase the mandatory Norwegian hours in the introduction system to 500 hours, we want free kindergarten for children of all those who are in the introduction system, just to make it better for women. And we don't want children to be interpreters. Children must not be drawn into the difficult world of adults. But we don't get a majority for this, because the government parties don't want to be part of it. Will the Council of State take care to come back and join us on these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e818	At least I want to be so positive that I say that both I and – I am absolutely sure – also the government parties in Stortinget have noticed those suggestions from the Right. For example, the question of extending the number of Norwegian hours in the introduction scheme is absolutely a topic we should have for consideration in the coming period. As we know, the introduction system has been evaluated, and we are now starting to review the results. I want to look at the evaluation and what it says about the level of Norwegian training, and on the basis of a thorough and comprehensive evaluation, consider whether it is increasing the number of hours in Norwegian training that we should now give priority to, or whether there are other things that are revealed through the evaluation of the introduction system that will go ahead. I believe that the basic tone of what the government is doing, and the right is proposing in this budget, is the same, just with some level adjustments. But no matter what I put forward, the Right would have levelled itself a little bit over in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e827	I am glad that the Council of State is so offensive and positive when he says that immigration is positive, that he looks up and says it enriches our society and is important to secure the labour force here in the country. The Christian People's Party fully agrees with those assessments and that it is necessary to raise its eyes. There are some areas in which we disagree with the Government on immigration issues, but we have clear expectations for the Government that one should be able to come together for consensus, not least in relation to the new law on foreigners that is under treatment. We have a concern about the paperless immigrants and will invite the Council of State to take a more nuanced view of this than just saying ‘return, return’. I will leave it now, but I have a specific question to the Council of State, and it concerns the statement ‘return, return’ in relation to those who are here illegally. I see nothing in the budget about extraordinary measures to do anything for this group, and I fear that there will be the status quo – they will still be hidden if one does not put in a major offensive somehow. What has the Council of State planned to do in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e837	First of all, the representative Tørersdal has to look a little bit better because it's 10 million. kr in the budget for enhanced return. So there's a little bit of a leaf too fast in the proposition. The tens of millions we now have and distribute, and the main thing we're betting on, and we're now working intensively on – and I think that the bulk of the population will agree with me – is to put in place more foreign attachés, which they've been called to at least now, at important foreign stations, such as. Amman and Moscow – the type of station – just to address the main problem we have with returning related to the lack of ID documents and travel documents. So there is a very focused effort on reinforced return work in the budget, and, as far as I know, the Christian People's Party is also voting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e844	The left is very happy with the tone at the beginning of the Council's articles. It is clear that the old LO concept that labour immigration only weakens Norwegian workers has disappeared from the Government, and we are pleased about that. I want to address an area that the representative Rikham has raised in the question to more people here, and that concerns quota refugees. The Soria Moria Declaration has a bold objective. Libe Rieber-Mohn said – as I referred to in the post – on 15 October that they wanted more. It's not like we just accept refugees because it increases our own well-being, it's also because we have an international responsibility. Why has the Council of State not had a pressure in this area, so that the Soria Moria objectives can be achieved in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e851	I have at least had so much pressure on it that we now have 200 receptions higher than when the Left sat in government. The first thing we had to do was to build the level up from the time the left was in and out of the country. In this way I do not have a bad conscience with the representative Skei Grande. It says in the Soria Moria statement that we're going up from 1,000 quota refugees, as it was when we took over, to 1,500. Then there is one budget proposal left to achieve the objective. What we have prioritised in this year's budget is Norwegian training. We believe it is important when we get newly arrived asylum seekers and refugees who live in the municipalities – and the refugees live directly. Within the budgetary framework we have now had at our disposal, we have prioritised Norwegian training to put it in place in the introduction system, so that it can form the basis for increasing the quota in the budgets that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e860	Of course, no one intends to return immigrants who have been legally resident in Norway. Of course, those who have come here will be allowed to stay here. No one in this room has any intention of throwing anyone out. The point is that believing that the challenge of labour shortages can be solved in the future by bringing more people to Norway is something that the NHO strongly warns against because by doing so it only scales up the economy. This will solve nothing at all. The new immigrants who come to Norway will also ask for goods and services, they will need services, etc., etc., plus that we know from experience that the immigrants who have already arrived here are much lower than others in the labour market, and to a much greater extent than the rest of the population receives benefits. How can the Council of State have labour immigration as a solution to the problems we face in working life, given these facts?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e869	Then I understand the representative Amundsen that in the case of those who have come so far, it is positive and good, and they work well in the labour market and contribute to prosperity and development in Norway. But if there's more now, we're going to have a problem. I also think that is a rather advanced reasoning. If it comes in 400,000, it works well, but if it gets 500,000, we get a problem. But I agree with the representative Amundsen that it would be totally wrong to focus solely on labour immigration in order for the Norwegian labour market to meet the challenges for the future. Therefore, the government also has several thoughts in its head at the same time. This is why we are implementing NAV reform and pension reform, but also looking at the organisation of labour immigration. What has happened in recent years is that 150 000 more have come to work in Norway, while we have over 100,000 immigrants. So it's not like Immigrants have prevented people in Norway from getting to work. People have come to work plus that labour immigration has increased. That's what's going to be a little bit too difficult for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e876	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e879	So far in the debate, the Progress Party has not made any comments on immigration policy. We've been talking about it a little bit in line exchanges, but we haven't had any post about it yet. Despite that, we have already served the creative descriptions against us. The representative Rikvam has already been up and talked about the terrible human vision of the Progress Party. What I'm challenging is whether you can point out in concrete terms what is such a terrible human vision of a policy where we want first of all to take care of the interests of the inhabitants of this country, first of all want to take care of what is a good society, before opening up the locks to everyone else in this world. It is an immigration policy which is partly the same as that pursued in Denmark, where the Progress Party wants the 24-year limit, attachment requirements, greater family immigration requirements. It is an intensification of asylum policy, where only those who have a real need for protection will have a port of refuge in Norway: UN conventions, yes, but not happinesses, and all the others whom we know abuse a system that was not intended at all. But there is also a policy where we say very clearly that job no. 1 is to integrate the people who already live in Norway, who have come to Norway through immigration for several years. Then we have to tighten up immigration policy at least as we concentrate on that task and not get even more people to integrate until we have solved the integration problem. I find it hard to understand that it is a policy that can be described as having a bad human vision. It is a realistic policy and a policy that takes care of the interests of the citizens in this country, simple and simple. There are some truths you have to be willing to take over. It must be recognised that it is not as easy to have a liberal immigration policy in a welfare country as it is in a country based on a far, far freer economy with less social cohesion. That is why we know that in those countries that have what we often call a slightly tougher economic reality, integration succeeds much better than in the European welfare states. That's a truth we have to take over. It's a truth that more and more people are beginning to understand. Even the NHO, in the VG yesterday, has drawn that conclusion and talks in many ways about what is the immigration policy of the Progress Party, as the solution to the problem. Clearly, the NHO now says that we need to concentrate on integrating the people who already live in Norway, who have come to Norway before we can accept new ones, and they want to limit immigration to Norway. The NHO is also very clear, unlike Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, that we cannot go around and continue to believe that increased labour migration will be able to solve the economic conditions we face, where we have a shortage of labour in a number of professions. This is because very many of the immigrants who have come to Norway in the last ten years have a low level of competence, have not been able to contribute so much to the labour market, have a low level of employment and receive a high level of public benefits, much more than the rest of the population. Then there is no recipe to solve anything in the labour market. That should be obvious, but it is clear that in this room only the Progress Party has understood it, although more and more outside this hall are in the process of understanding it. Of course, that's not the way the Council of State tries to make it, that we wouldn't have had people to drive a taxi in Oslo if we hadn't had immigration to Oslo. Of course it's not like that. After all, the economy had fixed this for itself. The praise of labour, the dynamism of the economy, had made sure that of course there had been people who had driven taxis as long as people had been interested in driving taxis. It has something to do with how the economy behaves automatically if you let it do it. I find, unfortunately, that the government has not understood the challenge, although more and more outside this hall are about to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e892	First of all, a little bit about local economy: the newly elected local politicians of the autumn get fewer opportunities and less power with this budget. The new money is either managed by the state or is going to cover increased expenditure in relation to population development. For the second consecutive year, the free revenues of municipalities are actually reduced, and thus the opportunities of local politicians to find the right solutions. It is no exaggeration to say that the disappointment is now great in Kommune-Norway. It's written a breach of promise in the air. Elder care is not given any increase in funding for construction. The reality is that municipalities have no better chance of operating the important welfare. Keywords: Kongsberg. New keyword: the Vestfold municipalities. A third key: Sandnes. The list of cutting knives in the municipalities is actually long. The government has boasted of the unhindered community economy, and this has created a false expectation of local politicians, because the money is already tied up. And it's the newly elected municipal politicians who are left with blacks. They're the ones who feel this on the body. So on to integration policy: it is more likely that the dramatic events and the new challenges that bring immigration and integration to the agenda are less likely to be a debate on local economy. First of all, I would like to address the issue with the background of the Right Budget proposal, but also with reference to the fact that we were able to read in yesterday's VG about the NHO's concern about labour migration. I will not comment here on the article except on one point, the concern that immigrant women do not participate in the labour market. Because it is worrying when labour market statistics show that unemployment is higher among immigrant groups than among the rest of the population and that unemployment is highest among migrant women. If we are serious about integration, we need to make things right so that more immigrant women can get to work. It's important for business, and it's important for municipalities. Unlike the government parties, the Right is pursuing an active policy in this area. In our 2008 alternative state budget, we have several proposals that will improve the opportunities for immigrant women to participate actively in Norwegian society. Unfortunately, neither the Workers' Party, SV nor the Centre's party want to contribute constructively. They're instead on the sidebar. We're sorry about that. One of the most important keys to success in Norwegian society lies in language skills and good language skills. A further commitment to language skills is essential, and the Right therefore proposes to extend the right to Norwegian training in the introduction scheme to 500 compulsory hours. I appreciated the signal from the Council of State about the possibility of following up on this later. The introduction system for newly arrived refugees and immigrants shall cover the whole family. Mother, too, should be able to participate. We know that too many mothers are home. Therefore, the right will provide free childcare services on the condition that both mother and father participate in the scheme, or are in work or in education. The main thing is that both adults should be able to get into society. For a small number of immigrants, the final Norwegian test consists. This means that language skills are not good enough and that too few people use this offer in full. We want more participants in Norwegian training, we want them to go up to a final test, and of course we want them to pass the test. So we think it's important to facilitate relationships so that both women and children get the best opportunities to actively participate in society and at school. Not least, it is important to prevent students from dropping out of high school. It is more than worrying when PISA studies once again conclude with worse results for School-Norway, and it does not make it any better that municipalities seem to deprioritise their efforts at school, at least the red-green rapporteurs. We have to start with the smallest, and we have to follow them up. We want a targeted language mapping of all four-year-olds in the country, not just a sample, as the government parties add. We do not think it is right that resources for municipal immigrant measures should be used for free core time in kindergartens for all four- and five-year-olds in areas with a high proportion of minority-speaking children, i.e. the largest cities. We will target the funds instead, so that several minority-speaking children receive an offer that strengthens the use of the Norwegian language. It will provide children with a better basis for school start-ups. It's important that everyone gets that opportunity, so that it doesn't become a Difference Norway. It must not apply only to cities. It's amazing that the Center Party can't help and support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e911	I am very pleased that we now have a government that prioritises the community, and that offensively uses the municipalities as a tool to improve the well-being of everyone. If we are to be able to improve the well-being of everyone and get everyone involved, it is important that we see the different challenges of the different municipalities in our long-term country. I am busy with the conditions of the districts and will use my post to say something about the important grips the government is now taking, and which to date have not been so much focused on in the debate. We have to be able to see that we have to use other instruments in many of the district municipalities than what we do in Oslo and the larger cities. Cities and districts have different roles in national value creation, and they represent different cultural and natural values in Norwegian society. We want to make sure that there are equivalent living conditions throughout the country, so that we can maintain the settlement even in the districts. Our government has taken many important, general steps in district policy that show that red-green policy is different from blue policy. Where the previous government agreed with the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee, our government showed determination. We have strengthened the budget for transport up to a level well above what the previous government was willing to do. It matters who's in charge. Next year, therefore, we will set up a centre of competence for district development, and, as stated in the proposition, it should have as its overall objective ‘to be a knowledge and experience base and supporter of comprehensive and sustainable development work in district areas’. An ongoing challenge for all district municipalities is to be able to offer attractive jobs in order to maintain and possibly get back young people who have moved out, and perhaps especially young women. As everyone knows, workplaces are crucial for positive development in municipalities. Now it has to be said in this context that the record unemployment is obviously a plus for the districts, but we have to make sure to provide our communities with extra help in good times too, so that we can make the best use of it for the districts. Now the possibilities are bigger than ever. That is why I am very pleased that good regional policy measures are now being properly focused, and that a number of measures are targeted specifically at young people and women. The Small Society Initiative of the Government supports a number of pilot projects to make small sites more attractive. There are many measures that may seem small in a large context, but which, in total, are of great importance, such as: Young Entrepreneurship, which has measures aimed at young people and young people, is also targeted both from county municipalities and through Innovation Norway against young people and especially young people. In the future, we will work systematically to strengthen the strategic competence of young people between the ages of 18 and 35. It is also suggested that women should be given priority in the use of instruments to increase the proportion of women entrepreneurs. It is important both in a regional policy perspective and in an equality perspective. It is gratifying that the number of women entrepreneurs increased last year, but we are still on a female share of approx. 20 pst. and far behind in relation to other comparable countries. I am proud that we have a municipal minister who has set himself the goal of 40 pst. Of all regional policy instruments, women are expected to reach 40 million. to funds to ensure support for women entrepreneurs. Now this might be perceived as an article in the equality debate, and in some ways it is. Equality is not only about gender equality, but also, as I initially said, about equivalent living conditions for people throughout the country. The local economy is the cornerstone of district policy, and therefore the change in the income system and the way it is organised will be of great importance for the future rural policy. If we want to have living settlements, we have to think about distribution policies in all contexts. A great deal of Norway is small rural communities. Exactly there is some of the quality of Norwegian society that we have to take care of and develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e932	Strengthening, renewing and further developing the welfare society is an important task for this government. To that end, a strong and effective public sector needs to ensure the well-being of all, regardless of the size of the wallet, where a cage, or where one or one of the closest originals had to come from. An important area of the renewal strategy is that the public sector should lead in terms of poverty, ethics and the environment. Increased participation and involvement of citizens and their additions should provide better solutions. Another key element is the use of new technologies to facilitate electronic services and information, so that one also reduces, for example: the need for labour in the public sector. The committee setting shows clear political priorities and dividing lines, and not least where a cutter comes up with a suggestion for cut, one might see it clearly. I'm going to comment on a couple of areas that I think absolutely need almost a separate debate, namely a fundamental debate on the principle of legal security and on who manages important legal security tasks in this society. It is such that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right claim that because of scarce resources, the county councillors must give priority to controlling the law and tasks relating to legal certainty on the one hand, and what they call the review of the municipal self-government and forward-looking local policy decisions in planning and land matters on the other. In the public information service, I would like to remind both the Progress Party and the Right that legal certainty is an ongoing task that the state has on all sectors. In that function of legal security, the tasks lie both as a review body, as a supervisory body and as a legal counsel to the first instance. Legal security is thus as important in both the environment and agriculture as it is in the health and education sectors. The right hand side and the right hand side cannot be drawn. Then I also register that the Progress Party once again refers to its proposal to replace the County Council with a system based on administrative courts. I can hardly do anything but assume that it is the complaint function of the County that the party I believe can be taken over by an administrative court, but the party is little concrete about how this is to be done. At least it did not seem that the Progress Party has thought well enough through the costs of its proposal, cork for the individual citizen or for the country. For what costs will each individual have to incur in an administrative court, and what costs will the State have to set up administrative courts, while clearly maintaining the counties for a good deal of other tasks, including: in order to implement national policies of magnification and government? In any case, any special court for different municipal service areas will not be a contribution to reducing public bureaucracy, which the Progress Party primarily refers to in negative color, nor will it be less fragmentation or less fragmentation of public administration by this type of proposal. When a municipal decision is currently pending before the State, the State shall decide on both the lawfulness of the decision and the professional management system. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party limit their competence to review only the legal status of the municipal decision and not the professional management system. In this case, the population will be cut off from the possibility of getting a test of the municipal assessment. In my view, this would lead to a weakening of the community's legal position in relation to the municipality. When the Progress Party and the Right also cut significantly, by 227 million. NOK 125 million. I have to say that there is a great deal of commitment to the rule of law and the rule of law. So now we're going to have a debate on the annual reports from the Data Protection Authority and the Subject, so I'm not going to say so much about that subject here. I just want to say that I am of course happy that the Committee, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, has voted for a budget proposal of 1 million. kr in addition to what we have proposed. Of course, I take it very seriously and agree with the Committee that the work done and continued by the Data Protection Authority is becoming almost more important and important because privacy threats are increasing and are taking more and more into account in more areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e953	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e957	We get more and more added to public administration. This means that more and more private sector jobs need to finance more and more public sector employment. If I take my own home state and my own region, Nordfjord, it is my claim that all municipalities in Nordfjord have resources and equipment to do all the tasks for all the municipalities. That means that, in our view, it's a huge overcapacity, both on resources and on equipment in the public sector. Does the Council not see that it is possible to reorganise and renew the public sector, so that we can move labour to the private sector, which has a screaming need for labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e962	After all, both the public and private sectors now have a major need for labour. This government believes that the most important welfare tasks should be solved in the public sector, and that it is the only way to ensure that welfare services are the same for all residents of this country, regardless of geography, size of wallets or any background. So we also need labour in the public sector. What we don't need is that we use our workers' faults. I totally agree with Mr. Oge Starheim. There is also a basis for the renewal strategy and not least for the effort we are now making to get the most possible services electronically, so that people can make them themselves. I'm talking to representatives from the Loan Box last week, which showed that they've only reduced by 60 years of work in the last two years. because they are committed to making the most of their services electronically available, so that the representative and I can enter and be customers of the Loan Box via the network. That's what we're thinking about in all walks of life. But what is important then is that the underlying etats keep some developmental money just to develop these electronic services, so that in the next round they can reduce the number of annual work used in public administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e973	The public sector needs both to be streamlined and modernised to meet the challenges of the future. The status quo is not a sustainable solution. Now the Council of State has been Minister of Renewal for over two years. I have been reviewing the cases of the Municipal and Administrative Committee since the government change in 2005, and there is not a single proposal or notification from the Council of State on the theme of renewal and modernisation. Does the Council of State think it is a sustainable situation that the department under its management has not done anything in this area that is so extensive that it requires a separate case for the Stortinget or Odelstinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e980	Now, above all, the renewal strategy has been put forward, at the same time as the state budget, and it is an excellent opportunity for the Stortinget to just discuss the Government's renewal strategy. It's not like we haven't done anything because we haven't had our own stuff in Stortinget. On the contrary, we have just focused our efforts on the underlying directorate, supervision and colleagues in the other departments, and not least on adding them to the team. If we haven't always added them with us when it comes to thinking about efficiency, thinking about user-friendliness when they do their daily service for us, then we've missed the renewal work. We want effective state services, both by means of them added, by means of new electronic technology and not least by having an economy in state administration that allows people to think about development. We now see that the new electronic services are just launched out in the departments and the Directorates, which have a lot of head over the water to think about how to work trickers, so that users get a better service, and that in the next round we might be able to free up the workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e989	In addition to the quality programme, there is little innovation and modernisation to track, but many beautiful promises. The Minister for Renewal has tried a few steps, including: something I wrote down instead, namely the web portal Norge.no. The portal was to revolutionize the flow of information in the Norwegian community. Unfortunately, the portal is little known and used, and one can't call this a big revolution, a revolution. When does the Council of State think the revolutionary web portal should become better known to most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e994	Now I probably didn't find it at Norway.no, but I was actually the first politician to bring Kristin Halvorsen on a visit to Norway.no in 2000, when the portal was created. The portal is not created because it should have the most possible matches every day, such as a web page, for example. vg.no, has – on the contrary. The point is that both I and the representative are going to find out in the state without needing any help. The portal should be so transparent and neatly arranged that we find out in a simple way when we're going to search for tax or NAV, or what it is. What Norway.no is is a public service to help you find out what many people experience in a fragmented country. When they now have over 9,000 hits every day, there's not a goal in itself that's going to be more, because that might mean that we've been more incomprehensible. This means that they should keep up a good web page and not least a telephone service that will actually help those who cannot be found, and they will get help from Norway.no today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1003	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Council of State that modernisation of the public sector is essential to ensuring the well-being of individuals and to manage resources properly. If one does not take the renewal work seriously, one will not get a strong public sector, which is of course important to meet the challenges ahead. The government has put forward a strategy for renewal. It is easy to agree with the intentions and objectives of this strategy, but I have repeatedly said that I lack a comprehensive strategy for the renewal and improvement of the public sector. In all these good intentions, one can look a little bit for what the main priority is, and I want to ask the simple question to the Council of State: what is job number? 1? What is the main priority she and her department will be doing in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1012	First, I must be allowed to thank the Christian People's Party for its constructive support for the Government's renewal strategy, and not least for the supported I experience it is a value base, which is in the renewal strategy, to keep, among other things. the most important welfare services in the public sector – as I also perceive the Christian People's Party. It is almost impossible to point to a single measure, because the strategy is forced to embrace several different directions, including the strategy, but at least let me mention two, maybe three. The one thing is related to openness. The Soria Moria statement is permeated by the word openness, and we are totally dependent on our openness about the decisions we make, and about the resource use we have in the public sector. So when we get a new public law in place – it is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for – we have arranged for a whole new public e-mail journal to ensure that everyone has transparency, for example. in the correspondence that goes to and from the Government Quartet every year. It is an important measure. The second is, of course, putting in place more electronic services and an eID that gives us a seamless, efficient public administration even online.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1021	I will continue to work on my introductory question. If we are certain that this is as I described, that when the municipalities have resources and equipment to serve each other beyond 100 pst, it must be reasonable that one can do the services to each other. In that case, it may be that one has to strive to influence the municipalities to initiate intermunicipal cooperation, when they do not get to other things on a voluntary basis. I am aware that the municipalities need workers when it comes to what we call the pedestrians. That's not what I'm talking about here. I'm talking about people in the administration. If we are certain that this is the case – and I do not think it is so difficult to prove that the actual conditions are such – will the Council of State help to increase the activity of inter-municipal cooperation in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1030	Yes, now I think the representative Starheim drew me a little far from what I agreed with him in the previous reply, but I agreed that it is important that we have an effective public administration, whether it is in state or it is in municipality. When it's my hold on intercommunal companies, I can only say that it's positive to me. I was among others. not long ago and open the first Intermunicipal Children's Protection Office in Sogn and Fjordane, where just local authorities take it seriously that they have very small units of trade, each of which, on the other hand, can create a professional environment if they merge. What we're going to be busy about when it comes to the intercommunal companies is the political governance, that the local government didn't let it go. Otherwise, my main contribution to improving the efficiency of local authorities is also to stimulate them to facilitate electronic services. We have these construction cases as an example of an entrepreneur doing about the whole job. This means that one can reduce the treatment time in a technical sense, so that one actually gets to do their projects within reasonable time and not as today, when many have to wait – unfortunately – for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1039	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1043	I am proud to be able to stand on this platform today and screen Soria Moria. In fact, it is good to be able to be part of the majority today when we are going to deal with the municipality budget for 2008. We red-green here at Stortinget have been in power for two years, we're halfway in the period, and we deliver what we've said we're going to deliver. We're on track. Since we took over the government two years ago, the municipalities have had a real growth of 21 billion kroner. This is a formidable increase in income for municipalities. This was, in our opinion, a high time after the starvation of Norwegian municipalities suffered from 2001 to 2005. In the autumn, many municipalities have said that they are in need of financial support, and many municipalities have to cut costs and cut jobs. We're taking this seriously and we're going to take action to fix this again. We are concerned that there should and must be a balance between what municipalities have received from tasks and the economy. Despite what the Right and their likes say about the finances of the municipalities, at least I don't hear a cry from the Municipality of Norway to get Erna Solberg back as a municipal minister. Municipalities have benefited from additional tax revenue of DKK 8 billion in 2006 and 2007. These are one-off incomes that municipalities have been able to use for, for example: exceptional maintenance or amortisation of debts. If local authorities have used this money for normal operation, of course these municipalities will have trouble getting a budget in balance. As I pointed out earlier here at this pulpit, we are in the municipal fraction very much concerned with the finances of the municipalities. For spring we get to the treatment of the Sørheim committee. This will be an important tool to correct biases in Kommune-Norway. This is a work we're going to take seriously. We have to ensure fair distribution also in terms of the municipalities in our country. As I mentioned earlier, the results are now starting to show up. Kindergarten space for anyone who wants it is within reach. In 2006, 11 400 more children were placed in kindergartens. In 2007, a further 13 000 children will be accommodated. At that time, almost 250,000 children will have children's gardening space. This gives a coverage of 85 pst. This is, of course, a lean comfort for the many who do not yet have a real offer of kindergarten. I know how they feel. I myself have been in the desperate situation. But that's exactly why there's reason to look forward to the future. The government continues, and the goal is full child care coverage, high quality and low price. I record that the Progress Party in its alternative budget proposes to spend NOK 1.4 billion more than the Government adds. I have to say that it's okay to be in opposition and pretend to be so much better. The truth is that the Progress Party is not at all concerned with local economy. We have witnesses of truth on that. Carl I. Hagen has just written a book, and it shows that during the budget negotiations in 2004, the then bourgeois government wanted to give the municipalities 800 million. DKK in free income and in Appendix 2, DKK 2,2 billion in tax compensation. According to Carl I, Hagen was furious when the government parties would then give the municipalities more money. Instead, the promotion party wanted to use released funds to reduce alcohol taxes. As we then see, it is quite clear that the Progress Party believes something different in position than in the opposition, and then it helps so little to pretend as if you mean something completely different. I am pleased that the current government is doing what it says it will do, namely to bet on the municipalities and the community. I can promise that we will do that in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1066	The left is pleased that municipalities have seen a larger increase in income in recent years. Looking at 2007 and 2008, however, the increase in income is not greater than the previous government contributed in 2004 and 2005. But the large increase in 2006 allows today’s government to beat itself a little on the chest. On the other hand, today’s government has contributed to a significant increase in interest rates. When we know that 1 pst. the increase in interest rates will result in an increased cost of at least 800 million. kr, the effect of increased transfers is reduced. This effect is also reduced by increasing responsibility for various public tasks being added to municipalities. A special grey zone with a high economic impact is tasks at the intersection of health businesses and primary health services. Today’s corporate law is a mature revision of the interaction between municipalities and health businesses. It can not only be up to municipalities to initiate more and better interaction. Another challenge we face is the degree of freedom of the municipalities. In 2008 is 75 pst. of the real growth of the municipalities tied up in state priorities, such as kindergarten. For municipalities that have already made an effort to expand spaces, this will result in a small counting. This means that the impact of increased transfers to the local government sector is even smaller for a considerable number of municipalities. This designation policy of the current government parties and the Progress Party related to kindergarten policy is at the expense of other investments in the municipal sector, so that the latest figures from the Technical Calculation Committee for the municipal and county economy show. The left will release the municipalities. To a lesser extent, we want to reduce the local taxpayer, to draw funds from municipalities and to re-distribute to what is more and more like a piece-of-price financing of state reforms. The left wants to establish the constitution of municipal autonomy and does not want municipalities to become state branches. In order to strengthen local self-government and increase freedom, the Left primarily wants municipalities to have greater freedom to determine the local taxpayer, to assess more concession-based revenues and to extend the possibility of natural resource taxation. Until this policy is adopted, the Left believes that the tax revenue of municipalities should be about 50 pst. of the total income of the municipalities. The left will also stress that there is a significant potential for efficiency improvement in the municipal sector. 1 pst. Improving efficiency in the municipal sector could release up to DKK 2.8 billion. But here it is important to have a political debate on where to streamline in the municipal sector. In the left, we are very concerned about the signals that are now coming from many municipalities, and not least county municipalities, about efficiency improvements in the school sector. This seems to be particularly detrimental to education and educational quality, but when the interest-rate compensation scheme for school construction will fall from next year, it is very likely to go beyond the necessary investments in the physical environment. Despite increased transfers to municipalities, teacher coverage in primary and secondary schools has not increased in recent years. For high school, with strong student growth in recent years, this is serious. In addition, we see a tendency for county councils to speculate not to replace teacher absence. So the left re-prioritises 500 million. kr from the municipalities of the counties in order to strengthen secondary education in 2008. In addition, the Left has found room to continue the scheme of interest-rate compensation for school buildings by DKK 2 billion in 2008, which will benefit both municipalities and county municipalities. Together with the Left's proposal for increased scholarships, the recruitment plan for teachers and the strengthening of the school libraries, the Left gives a clear signal that we will bet on quality in school. As far as county councils are concerned, towards the introduction of regional reform in 2011, we have a challenge to make them more than a school driver. The left considers it to be a waste of democracy and state resources if we do not manage to delegate greater political responsibility and carry out more tasks at this level along the way. We've decided to pass the intermediate level, regardless of its size. It is therefore a paradox that the county office, which is actually more threatened by regional reform than the counties, is constantly being given new tasks, while the counties seem to be kept in subdued until 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1083	On 17 October 2005, the country was given a new Stoltenberg government, and remarkablely, on 17 October, is the International Day of Poverty. The Soria Moria Declaration clearly states that it is an objective to eradicate public poverty. This is a very ambitious project and a desperate, desperate operation, but it is serious. Poverty measures have increased by DKK 1.6 billion over this period of government. The Action Plan on Poverty contains targeted efforts that are strengthened in the 2008 state budget. The next year's rate is 336 million. kr. We are on the right track in the fight for a more fair society for those who have the least. Oslo has special challenges. Year-on-year differences are greatest in the capital. It's still the way people on the west side live ten years longer than people on the east side. This is where you have most minorities. The problem of noise is growing up in this city, and crime is highest here – people don't feel safe in Oslo streets. Prostitution rates have changed markedly in recent years. Homelessness — and the shelters — still exist, including in the capital. The government underlines the importance and special needs of Oslo by presenting a capital message, the aim of which is to create an open and secure capital region. It is to recognise the potential of the capital and that a strong capital is a advantage for the whole country. We want a capital we're proud of, but then we also need to recognise the capital's special challenges. I am delighted to see the continuation of the fight against poverty and get a big city perspective on living conditions differences when the Capital Message is to be addressed in the UK if not for very long. Social housing policy is one of the prerequisites for breaking poverty. Everyone should be able to have a safe and good place to live – a decent place to live. The measures are many: housing support, start-up loans, housing grants and the Husbank are good tools to achieve this goal. We are concerned that the municipality should be able to use these instruments for the benefit of those who are disadvantaged in the housing market. Through the treatment of the State budget by the Storting, a good budget has become even better. Thirty million. kr is used to improve housing support for the disadvantaged, 25 million. Dr for anti-drug measures and new places at Tyre, and children and young people in the risk zone will receive even more. The State budget is a further strengthening of measures to combat poverty. Over the course of three years, efforts have now tripled. There is still a lot of work to be done, but no one should doubt that the Workers' Party is still occupied by those who have the least. This – the 2008 state budget – in conjunction with the forthcoming capital announcement, makes me optimistic. Combating poverty is promising and realistic. I'm looking forward to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1100	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1103	I don't know if I'm going to feel honored or besieged by the committee leader, Hagebaken, taking a visit to his opening post, but I would have appreciated if he had completed the reference when he first did. What I wrote in the reading column Hagebakken refers to was that no one could accuse Erna Solberg of creating expectations – and: It was rather an understanding of conversion and efficiency. Today's government has created an expectation crisis in Kommune-Norway. The garden hill points to increased incomes, but it does little to help when the willingness to promise off benefits on behalf of municipalities is even support. It can then not be so difficult to read the government's own forecasts for the development of the local economy. The garden hill will find a very simple representation in the national budget, on pages 263, Table 4.17. It shows that the local economy was significantly improved in 2004, 2005 and 2006. So this is from the third year of the previous government even to the first year of the sitting government. It may well be appropriate to remind Hagebakken that an improvement in the local economy means that the growth of income is greater than the growth of expenditure. For 2007 and 2008, the same table shows that the growth of income is lower than the growth of expenditure. That is what I call a deterioration in the local economy, even though the growth in income is significant. Of course, one is left with the question of whether it is the desire of the local politician to make promises, or whether central politicians are the leaders of this. However, the same table shows that expenditure growth increased markedly in 2006. The cost explosion is directly linked to the government shift. The garden tray rotates in the line from this by focusing on the distribution key between the municipalities, but it doesn't correct the fundamental. A redistribution just means that someone gets it even tighter. The municipalities are once again back to conversion and modernisation, and they did not expect that. Expectations are dangerous. They tend to turn back on the one who created them. It's enough to take a look at almost every locality a day. It's not exactly the freedom of action that's the review tone. The image does not match the image Hagebakken pulls up. Then there's just one very central question: when the map no longer matches the terrain, is there anything wrong with the map or terrain? The answer is left to the individual. But I expect that there will be as much discussion about it as there will be about anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1117	First of all, in the terrain that Gundersen represents, the distribution profile of the municipality structure has a lot to say. So I realize that it's tough to be a Right-Man and be from Hedmark and inland. Secondly, I would like to say about this interest-rate compensation scheme that we have said quite clearly in the position that we are asking the Government to assess incentives for upgrading more school buildings. Because it's necessary, and that's something we'll follow up. So it's this thing with the glossy image. And I ask, is there anyone here who can't stand to hear the facts? All I described was reinspecka facta. In its time, I led an action with rebellious moves to get more money for the local government sector. We came up with a claim that was adapted to the government then – but we took it a little bit, we asked for NOK 3 billion more. Now it's been seven times in three years. And then the Progress Party, frankly – I say that – says that we have raised the level by 21 billion kroner, is to stop. I clearly acknowledged in my post that there is still a need for more money – and we intend to provide more money – but I added that for many municipalities it is particularly important that we now get a different distribution profile. Here there are people who quickly sign out, and who seem that the distribution as it is today is going too far. I didn't draw a glossy picture, but I described a new situation in Kommune-Norway. If there's something I'm going to take on self-criticism, it's that in its time I might not be as good as how bad it was, that many municipalities were completely on the rim. We have made sure that there is something to run on – and we will make sure that the comfort gets better gradually. In terms of quality, we're busy with quality. I also thought the Right was, because the Right profiles often quality. But when we talk about the Quality Municipalities Programme, which has taken a little off – 400 attended a start-up conference recently – yes, then the Right reports. There's nothing to the right that makes sense. Is it because there is little privatisation that characterizes the project? Is it because the employees themselves are engaged, or is it because they have not made up this themselves? Right doesn't want to be on this bet, which is so important. I want to repeat what I said in the introduction: this is modern renewal work. Anyone standing on the outside of this thing is doing something unwise – for this it is going to be exciting. So I ask the Right to maybe think a little bit better. With regard to the Progress Party in this context, I have no expectations. That's why I don't mention anything in that way either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1136	The president just wants to mention that in this room there's probably nothing that's "freaky."
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1139	We, who are members of the Health and Welfare Committee, should also keep a special eye on the municipal budget in addition to our own budget. Community policy is of great importance in achieving our objectives in the field of health and care, especially in relation to, for example: care for the elderly. It's natural, when we know that the municipalities use approx. 40 pst. of their income in the course of care. It is nice to be on the platform as a member of another committee and to be able to thank for the work being done in the area of the Municipal Committee. The local government sector has really been lifted after the government change in 2005. Thanks to increases in the free transfers to the municipalities, we received 5,900 new annual works in the care sector last year. As a result, the Government is well ahead of the 10 000 new annual report by the end of 2009. It shows that municipalities give priority to care and that annual work increases through increased free income. I have looked at figures from the SSB about the development of the number of annual shifts in the care services. Last year’s growth — figures for this year are not ready yet — is significantly greater than any growth in the last decade, as we have had bourgeois governments. The Government introduces an investment grant to 12000 new hospital and nursing homes by 2015. That's a good news. The municipalities can apply for NOK 600,000 per year. health place and 400000 kroner per day. nursing home. I agree with the importance of the grant scheme being managed in such a way that differences between municipalities will not be reinforced. At the same time, I think it is important to use discretion. Although, for example: Bergen municipality has slightly more than average coverage, Bergen may have specific challenges associated with other conditions that suggest that it may be right to prioritise places there as well. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Municipal Committee – the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – have a note saying that they ‘consider that both the County and the House Bank must exercise discretion when assessing the need for grants to each municipality’. And on the other hand, ‘The majority will underline the need to exercise discretion, in particular because some areas of the country may face specific challenges, such as weaker social networks for older people and more age bias’. This is an important comment, and I'm glad that the majority have written it into the vote. I would ask the Minister of State to follow closely with regard to the management of the grant scheme, so that we can both ensure that the target of 12 000 new health and care places is met, and that the grant is allocated in line with the objectives we believe to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1163	There are some statements that have been made in this debate that I think it is good to comment on. The only claim is that there is a decrease in the free income next year. That's wrong. There's $2 billion more in free income next year compared to this year. Perhaps the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, as evidence of their claims, have counted on the growth of VAT – but that is not possible. From the Ministry's point of view, it has been very clear when it comes to stressing that VAT growth is a one-time income – $6 billion last year, $2 billion this year – which should not be used for operations. On the contrary, the Council has been quite clear: use these funds for exceptional maintenance and for debt reduction! For the debate on taxpayers: Had the Right had been implemented for its proposal in the budget for next year – Bent Höie might have corrected it, but I think that is the case – they would have moved 4 billion dollars to the more tax-intensive municipalities. So the government is going the opposite way – to make it possible for several municipalities to ensure equivalent supply. Then I heard the representative, Gundersen, criticise the fact that the growth in expenditure is increasing significantly – I think he used the word ‘explosion’ in 2006. The easiest thing to do is to keep the growth of expenditure down is, of course, not to ensure more babysitting places, not to ensure more new annual work within school or care. However, when, over the course of two years, municipalities actually have 25 000 more children's cohabitation and 9 800 new year-olds in the care of the elderly, it goes without saying that additional expenditure is required. That's why the municipalities also have increased income. So the question of ear marking or not. It is true that from the third quarter of last year to the third quarter of this year, municipalities have used 15 pst in total. more for kindergartens, 10 pst. more for care of the elderly, please choose 7 pst. more to school – a little different from municipality to municipality, which underlines that it is important to work for a further increase in the free income. The situation in the municipalities is different. Behova is different.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1178	I think the joy of reaching the country's rapporteurs after the contribution of the municipal minister, when they get the impression that they can balance their budgets within their local government with the difference in growth estimates between the revised national budget and the state budget. The Minister of Local Affairs knows better. Here she tries to create a different impression from what is in the national budget, on page 75: «The free revenues of the Community sector are estimated to be actually reduced by more than 0,1 billion. kroner or 0.1 pst. from 2006 to 2007.’» Furthermore, the national budget, on page 76, states: «Free income is estimated to be actually reduced by 0.8 billion. krona or 0.4 pst. calculated in relation to estimates on accounts for 2007.’» Free income in municipalities goes down in 2008 — for the second consecutive time. That's the money the municipal government representatives want to pay their budgets. They do not balance their budgets with press releases from the Ministry of Local Affairs. And the prime minister was clear that the extra tax revenue in 2007 should only be a one-off income. The previous municipal minister was so clear that she sent out a Hurrapress message in the election campaign where she said that the government increased the revenues of the municipalities by NOK 2 billion. It's just this that's the problem with this government. There is also the problem with the head of the municipal committee and with the municipal minister. They create a warped image of Kommune-Norway, and it's the local politicians who have to be left with the bill. Not one of these two has addressed the challenges that local authorities are facing today — the challenges they face in recruiting labour, with a galloping wage level, not having access to the skilled labour force of today’s labour market. It should have been the contribution of the municipal minister and the head of the municipal committee. They have not addressed the major challenges faced by municipalities today at increasing interest rates, and the investments they have made on behalf of the Government and imposed by the Government, which eat up much of their freedom of action, and they have not addressed the problem experienced by today's local politicians, namely that they have a government that promises and promises on their behalf, but does not provide them with the resources to implement the promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1198	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7, 8, 10, 11, and 12. [[Votation, see pages 1338, 1339, 1340 and 1341]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1214	I know that there have been too many long and tiring debates today, but I still think this is such an important matter that it has to be mentioned from the pulpit. The government said in its government statement that it will focus on and ensure that privacy is not compromised. Nevertheless, we see that we are at a time when privacy is still being threatened. Some of us had George Orwell's book '1984' as a curriculum when we went to school. The reason why it was only viewed as a utopia when we read it in 1984 was that it was thought that so much information is actually not possible for anyone to gather. It has now completely changed. With today's technology, we have enormous opportunities to gather information, and we have enormous opportunities to compile information. And what we're constantly looking at is that technology is the very driving force behind doing things. It's like the debate we had here about new machines on the Gardermo. It turned out that there was no safety assessment of their use, there was no mention of speed or convenience – but you moved into people's personal sphere because it was an interesting and exciting new technology, which you really wanted to use. We're looking at a number of areas. We see that in the health sector it becomes very tempting to use new technologies and new compilations of information. We see it in traffic, where it'll be very exciting to see how you can set limits for new compilation and gathering information. We see it, of course, in the justice sector, searing about it for me, as liberals, is quite perceptive that the old privacy areas that we were so concerned about, which were about the state's monitoring of the individual, are now becoming less and less important compared to the private surveillance of the individual in society. And we're still looking at a service business, like that. the insurance industry, which offers people other conditions if you are willing to be monitored, if you are willing to hang a small “dupedit” on the boat or in the car that tells you where you are all the time. This means that it is enormously important that the Data Protection Authority and the other bodies that we have in society to take care of privacy are actually able to do so. I'm aware that it's plus 1 million. kr in relation to the government, but we in the left have wanted to add 2 million. kr on top of it again. It's a huge work pressure that's on the Data Protection Agency, and they have a job that they would like to have done in a real way. But we should perhaps, I would say from the Left's point of view, have decentralized more of the power and approval to get a debate closer to people on the privacy challenges. A number of proposals have been made by the Left in the field of privacy. There will be a debate related to the Commission. But it's important that the Data Protection Agency does not weaken its job, and that they are made able to do the important job they have, to actually be involved and answer how we, as individuals, should be able to maintain our integrity in a society where technology is constantly driving us to new scans.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1229	The primary task of data protection is to protect individuals from the violation of privacy interests. There can be no doubt that in recent years, both nationally and internationally, one has seen a development in which individual privacy and integrity are subject to pressure. The fight against international terrorism has, in many contexts and countries, diverted attention from the needs of individuals to protect privacy and privacy to the need to safeguard society against terrorism. This is serious because basically it's about what values we believe in. In its ultimate consequence, it's about what kind of society we want. If it becomes easier to accept privacy in favour of other political demands, it is our democratic ideals that are at stake. It is difficult to imagine a well-functioning democracy in which the boundaries of privacy have been moved and where information on individuals is easily accessible and can be used for purposes other than those for which they were intended. Kafka is the one who in the most striking, scary, and unpleasant way has shown what can happen when you don't understand what's happening to you. New technology makes us even more vulnerable to the misuse of personal data. In the annual report, the Data Protection Authority writes that data protection is under pressure in almost all areas where supervision has been carried out. When a decision-maker is faced with a dilemma where privacy either prevents one from doing it, or requires one to change the plans, the decisions are most often in the disfavor of privacy. There are only favourable coincidences that prevent personal data from coming out of control. Clearer and clearer it can hardly be expressed. It is absolutely necessary that we have up-to-date and active data monitoring, in order to supervise and not least to maintain and develop a lively debate in the open room about the position of privacy. Supervision has selected certain industries and sectors where supervisory work is a priority. That's a proper strategy. It is certainly often the case that privacy is violated without being exposed to a critical light. The supervision describes a situation in the financial sector in which a liberal practice of access to information for outsiders has been identified which may involve significant impairments of integrity for those affected. According to the notification, the respect for the provision on the deletion of personal data is consistently low. At the same time, there is a tendency to generate a quantity of surplus information. This may be due to a number of factors. Information is kept because it can be useful once in the future. It is unpleasant to know that information that has been legally collected in a particular context is stored and may come back in a completely different context. This also reveals a lack of knowledge of current legislation in this area. That's why, in this context, it's a proper strategy to bet on information. The 2005 data protection survey shows that the population has little knowledge of its own data protection rights, but has great confidence that everyone who processes the data will comply with the legislation. Choosing children and young people as a target group for a comprehensive information package is therefore wise. The Municipal Committee has examined the budget for 2008. The majority have increased data supervision by 1 million. kr. In this note, we explain the reasons for the strengthening, inter alia: with the need for increased efforts to provide information on privacy and for children and young people to receive special attention. Let me end with a worry. I'm not sure we have enough attention around these major challenges. It is not enough for the Data Protection Authority to administer a law and do it in a good way. At a time when we're seriously discussing whether to dress more or less naked at airport checks, we've gone far beyond the line of integrity. As politicians, we have a special responsibility to keep the debate on these issues alive. We cannot ignore the fact that there are others, such as the Data Protection Agency, who take responsibility. It is always our responsibility to ensure that the necessary conditions for a living democracy are protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1246	Now I'm not going to try to prolong the debate, but I agree with Trine Skei Grande in that this topic is so important that there's a debate going on, even if it starts to be something late in the evening. Let me start with some of that representative Trine Skei Grande ended up with, that one in a way has decentralized the theme around privacy issues and moved it closer to people. This is the whole basis for the reinforcement that the Swedish Data Protection Agency has received in the last two years on a project basis, the 2 million. kr as they got to the you decide-campaign – a very successful campaign aimed at children and young people, who were developed in collaboration with the Technology Council and the Education Directorate. As late as today, in fact, you've decided our campaign is nominated for a European privacy prize. The awards were today. Unfortunately, they didn't win, but they were pulled out as one of two projects that meant special mention in Europe. This means that the work done in the Data Protection Authority is noticed. Of course, that's why we've found that we want to support it with $2 million. NOK, and continue to support it by 2 million. kr. And not only that -- for the current year, we have allowed two independent projects. Now it's probably going to move over to 2008, because it got a little late. Data protection is now under way both in an art campaign and in a film campaign, where the film campaign is in particular in the extension of the website dudetermine.no, where the young people themselves are involved in developing the material to make people aware of the challenges of privacy. Youth they meet very exposed, especially in meeting with the Internet. Let me do it a little bit. It's a bit the same thing that Trine Skei Grande also had in mind – using the Internet in all the world's everyday activities. Both in job contexts, leisure contexts and where they are, the Internet is still more common. We've got these new online phenomena, online communities like Facebook, YouTube, and MySpace, where users share huge amounts of information about themselves with others – without being sufficiently aware of it, I'll say. Another example of a site that collects a lot of personal information is the Google search service. Google registers and logs a lot of information about the users. The information will be sent to the United States and stored for 18 months, cf. the debate I know we are going to have on the Data Storage Directive if not for long. So the information on Google is stored for 18 months. It is important to be aware of this, not just because it is stored for 18 months, but because in the United States, privacy regulation is not based on the same principle as EU regulation and what Norwegian law is based on, and because it is harder for users to understand what the information is used for. Therefore, the Data Protection Authority is continuously working on various issues related to privacy online, and we are obviously dependent on us being present in international forums, where this is a topic. I also know that the Consumer Environment and Consumer Council have been working on some of the same challenges, perhaps especially targeting advertising against children. So there is reason for concern, as both the representative of Reikvam and the representative of Skei Grande were involved, when very few actually are aware of what tracks you post when you use different network services – not least what the different electronic tracks are used for. Several websites and online communities turn to young people who are even less aware of the consequences of what they do online than we are. The registration and use of information about young people gives particular cause for concern, we think, not least because it is actually useful in advertising. It is a challenge that many of the activities of Norwegian online residents lead to the registration and use of personal data entirely elsewhere in the world than with ourselves. I don't think everyone is aware of that, on the contrary, the data protection investigation that Rolf Reikvam was having, that we're a bit naive, we have a limitless trust. It's good that we have unlimited confidence in public and private businesses, but that's probably a little naive compared to the fact that someone can abuse the information. We need a debate. We've created a privacy committee that's been set up in the fall, and it's going to be more visible over the New Year, even in the public debate. We need more actors on the track who raise issues about privacy – in debates in Stortinget and in debates outside Stortinget – so that the attention to these issues is heightened. I think the answer to these questions is very different -- that's what we'll get back to another time. What is important is that both the Committee and the Government have raised the level of privacy issues monthly in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1263	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1271	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e1279	During the debate, 26 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, no. 2-4, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 5, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 6, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 7, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 8-24, by Mr Korsberg on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 25, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right and Left Amendment No. 26, from Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of Right As regards proposal No: 25, from the Right and the Left, this must be regarded as a framework-dependent proposal and therefore cannot be put to the vote. The proposal thus lapses. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e2594	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose raising the so-called tourist quota for fish from 15 kg to 25 kg.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e2610	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8-24, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e2726	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to repeal the export quota regulation for fish and fishery products from sport fishing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e2741	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refrain from structuring vessels below 15 metres until the impact of this on fleets, owners and fisheries-dependent communities has been determined.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e2756	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote a new case for the Storting if a vaccine against the smell of robbery is approved in the EU or when the research has new concrete results to point to.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e2771	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e2801	The vote will then be taken on the proposal for a decision in the framework area 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e4663	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e4677	The proposal for a decision in the framework area No is then put to the vote. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e5376	The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right also want to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e5389	The vote will take place at the end of the debate on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection under the heading 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e6678	All of the Roman numerals below the area are framework dependent and are initially to be taken into consideration in a single vote, but because of the slightly special origin of Roman numerals VI, and since we had never such a small coincidence in the hall last year, the President will suggest that we deviate from the general rule and do separate voting over Roman numerals VI. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President shall assume that the Party of Advances and the Right wishes to vote against the motion for a resolution under Framework Box 11, with the exception of Roman numerals VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e6699	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government in respect of the State’s ownership of Aker Holding to provide a sale of NOK 4950000000 in other listed companies owned by the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e6764	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e7240	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 5 December 2007: ‘The Government is asked to continue the current organisation of veterinary services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e8524	During the debate Bent Höie has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 691 Foreign debt instrument, item 221 Operating expenses, treat ment, the term ‘transferable’ is added.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e8842	The right party of the Christian people and the left have announced that they will go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e8858	28 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 5, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left motions No. 6-8, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 9-13, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 14-22, by Åge Starheim, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 23-25, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 26, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right and the Left, proposals Nos. 27 and 28, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 27 and 28, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e8916	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the right and the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the 2008 Municipal Proposition, to come up with an escalating plan to ensure that its tax revenue is at least 50 pst. of the income of the municipalities again.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e8931	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–25, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e8963	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–22, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e9030	President! I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e9037	The correct votes will then be 83 votes against and 23 votes in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, and therefore the proposals have been rejected. It is then voted on the proposals Nos. 9-13, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e9081	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e9113	President! Inger S. Enger and I voted wrong. We are against, but we voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e9120	The right votes will then be 69 votes against and 37 votes in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right, and therefore the proposals have been rejected. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. Right and left. The proposal reads as follows: «Previous «Statskonsult» is separated as a separate company and sold.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e9137	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e12504	The President has understood that the Advance Party and the Right will oppose the vote. The Christian People's Party and the Left will support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11-2.ana.ud2504e12524	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
