ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e24	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e27	On behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to propose an action plan to help the deaf and deaf.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e32	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e35	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Per Sandberg, Tord Lien and myself to draw up an action plan for enhanced oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e40	The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e43	I have the pleasure, on behalf of the representatives of Lars Sponheim, Gunnar Kvassheim, Trine Skei Grande and myself, to put forward proposals for a review of the regulatory framework for acquisition watchkeeping.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e48	The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e51	On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Per Sandberg, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I have the honour to propose measures to prevent a long-standing power crisis in Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we go into the oral question procedure, the President will give some information. One is what we have already adopted in Stortinget, namely the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which means that we reintroduce ordinary Question Time every week – and that the time period for sending written questions is extended. This is because the Presidency believes that the Questionnaire Institute is very important in any parliament, and that we must have the opportunity to ask questions every week, so that there will be regularity in it. The second is that the Presidency has also had a wish, and has discussed it with the Prime Minister, that government councils can come to the Stortinget more fully and provide information if there are major events or major issues to be presented – that they can come to the Storinget immediately and immediately, so that it is here that you can inform the public and that the opposition is given the opportunity to respond. Of course, there is something that needs to be done in cooperation between government and big business. But we think it would be very good if you could get more attention on major issues here in the room instead of just doing it in the media and the debate comes a couple–three months later here in the main hall, when there is no longer any interest in it. The third applies to the spontaneous question hour. There's also a couple-three things. One is the distribution of the word. The President shall then decide to do so in the following manner: the President shall interrupt the person who has the floor when the time has elapsed. If you want to answer, you start talking right away. For example, in the case of those who are going to ask questions to the Trond Giske State Council today, this will happen as follows: He/she will be given two minutes. When the two minutes are over, the president says, "State Council Trond Giske," and Trond Giske starts talking. Once he has had the floor for two minutes, the president says the name of the representative concerned, and this one starts talking. That's how the president doesn't sit and club and club when the time is up. [[muttering in the hall]] It's bad on TV. We're starting with this already today. The second concerns supplementary questions. There the President – and this was the case originally – should be freer, both in terms of the number of questions and who asks them. It's gradually become a kind of ritual that you have to do on all the main questions by asking all the parties additional questions. It may be important and good to keep the pressure up. But if the President discovers that it might be better to move on to the next main question, the President must be free to do so. The President will also essentially give the first supplementary question to the party that has the main question so that you can coordinate to get the pressure up. This might mean that we get more main questions. That means, of course, that the President must stand free, also to make mistakes — it is the President’s privilege to be wrong — by failing to give any word that might have been given. But essentially I think it might be more free and more interesting if we stand a little bit freer here. But this under the repressive assumption that no batches are distributed; one should essentially give the same opportunity for all lots to be put in order in the hall. But it doesn't necessarily have to be a mathematical distribution in every question. It could happen in a larger whole. The third concerns the time limit. There is no time limit in the Rules of Procedure, but gradually the spontaneous questioning has slipped over to almost an hour and a half. We think it's better that we keep it around an hour -- we don't say an hour, and then it's over, but about an hour. We've noticed that the hall is getting pretty empty when it goes towards an hour, and when it's an hour and twenty minutes, the hall is almost completely empty. Then it's better to keep the pressure up for an hour, and maybe have more main questions and have a little bit more intensity in it. This is what we're going to try out from today, and we're going to try to make it work. The President will remember that that was the way it was originally, but then we might have got something more ritual about it later on. Let's try to get back a little bit more spontaneity. Before we start the spontaneous questioning session, the president, since there will probably not be so many at the end of the ordinary questioning session, will take the opportunity to wish Christmas, thank you for the cooperation and wish good New Year, and I hope that everyone comes back here rested. Resting is basically quite healthy, and you can do it in many different ways. The President won't interfere with it, only you rest a little bit and come back in peace. Merry Christmas and good New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e101	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Knut StorbergetTrond GiskBård Vegar Solhjell The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e120	Let me start by wishing the President a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year, in case I shouldn't be here at the end of the meeting. My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. We are all concerned about Norwegian children being given the opportunity to go to kindergarten – a qualitatively good kindergarten with enough pedagogical staff and with good material around it. That is why everyone in the Norwegian economy has agreed that it should be put on and built up a good kindergarten offer. As a party, SV has promised full child care coverage – and may be engaged in the speed of being in target everywhere. Based on the unanimity that has been around this, it's amazing to experience that when a government council meets its own pledge breach, it chooses to direct the big shot at other parties, and at the municipalities that have done a hard job in recent years to achieve what we've all wanted. Let me take an example from my own hometown. Since 2003, when it was a political shift, 4 560 new kindergartens have been built. In 2000, 9 kindergartens were built in that city, so it was a huge tow. Then my question is whether the minister really thinks it's worth using the attempts at a mediajippo to smoke his own promise break, that you can't reach the goal of what you've promised, by shooting at those who are actually doing a hard job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e135	We made yesterday's speech, our estimate, for how it will go with the Government's goal of reaching full child-care coverage in 2007. The figures show that we have come very far, almost 250,000 children will have space in kindergarten by the end of 2007, according to that estimate. But we've only reached almost the goal, because almost 4,000 children will be out of space. I don't want to say good-bye until 'nearly' has been that we're completely in the game. So the estimate shows that there are five rather large municipalities, all run by the Right, who have a particular challenge, because almost four out of five children on the waiting list live in those municipalities. It is true that the big cities have had special challenges when it comes to kindergarten development. However, some major cities have met this challenge through a systematic effort over time, through a clear political will – by setting land to land, setting clear goals, and one has achieved them. Trondheim, Tromsø, Kristiansand and the last Stavanger, whom I want to give praise here, have reached them. By contrast, there are other cities that have not reached their destination. I have gone through the work they have done, and I want to say that everyone has done a lot of good work to achieve full child-care coverage in recent years, but I can also see that everyone could do things better to reach full child-care coverage. That is why I have also sent a letter to the representative Erna Solberg asking me to cooperate with the Right to achieve full child care coverage. My predecessors took the initiative to meet the Red-Green Party Secretaries before the summer, to review how we can press against the red-green municipalities that still don't have full child care coverage. Now I thought that the Right should also be involved in how the right-wing municipalities should come into being. This is about very important questions for parents and children throughout Norway. If we're all on top of each other, we can get to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e146	If you want to invite me to work together, you don't do that by sending a letter – so I was informed about a wish that I would come to a debate in the Norwegian media, until I had received the letter. This is a mediajippo. It is symptomatic of how the former party secretary of the SV is doing his job, as a minister at the moment, namely that you are busy mastering the media rather than doing what you have promised. In 2006, the Prime Minister invited all these cities – including the red-green cities, how many have long queues, especially in relation to the number of children – to a meeting. He then gave the impression that something had to be done to advance the work of the statesmen with the regulation and preparation of the plots. The party leader and finance minister Kristin Halvorsen promised to give plots without tender and competition in Oslo. Can the Council of State now tell what has been done in relation to County, and how many plots have the Municipality of Oslo actually received?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e155	The government is very committed to how we will achieve the goal, and will have special contact with all the municipalities, but especially with the five that are far from reaching the goal. We'll run through all the government tools. We've identified a number of state-owned plots around Norway that could be used for kindergarten purposes if one was in agreement with the municipalities. We're going to review how we're going to proceed with this, and we're going to contact all of these five municipalities and other municipalities with regard to what extra we can contribute from the state in the future. But it is clear that we both depend on the municipalities taking their responsibility, and that the state takes responsibility for the health of the people. In Oslo one has e.g. sold a number of plots in the last years, while a missing plot to build kindergartens. This is one of the reasons why Oslo is also not fully targeted with its goal over many years of full child-care coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e162	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e165	I hear the Council of State talk about this as if it were a new issue. He's talking about what you want to do, and now you're going to review things, without being specific about it. This is something we've known for a long time. We have known that the big cities in Norway have special challenges. We have known that the maximum price setting will make an extra big impact in view of higher demand. We know that population growth is larger. We've seen that the cost level is higher, and the construction costs have been on top. At all, we know that there's a series of problems here. And then the council now comes and talks about what he might think to do! Shouldn't the Council of State have had a strategy for this at a little earlier time? As early as 2006, the Prime Minister felt it was necessary to attend a meeting. We can't say that we just heard what the follow-up will be. What is the strategy of the Council of State now? I think he might also have to answer a little concretely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e174	This gives me a good opportunity to say a little bit about what's been done, because there's been a huge effort in the last few years to get full babysitting. We have come with significant government funds, through investment advances and financial means that come automatically, and that will cover the municipalities' costs of development. We have made a great effort to guide local authorities and municipalities on how to get prompt treatment and avoid some of the problems that have taken a long time to get new kindergartens established in the past. We have gone through state-owned plots, but have also tried to guide the municipalities with regard to how they can set up own plots for this purpose. We've met municipalities with special challenges in the past. I now announce that we will continue that work systematically in the future, because we are not yet fully in line with this important goal for parents and children in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e182	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e185	There are now torches all over Norway in protest against the cuts and cuts that occur in almost every municipality as a result of poor municipal economy. Jan Davidsen, working party leader and head of the Trade Union, is going out in the newspaper today and is accusing the Government of a gigantic breach of promises in the community economy. My question to the Council of State will then be as follows: In its eagerness to achieve full child care coverage around the country, in a situation where the local economy is very under pressure as a result of the government's high rhetoric, does the money spend many times, but does not take responsibility for the full funding of all the tasks that the municipalities have, the Council of State then believes that the municipalities should cut down in school in order to achieve full child care coverage, which is also the responsibility of the Council of State? Or does he think it would be more right for the municipalities to cut in the care of the elderly? After all, most municipalities must be cut, and this Council of State must also give priority to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e194	In the years that we have provided the budget, this government has achieved a strong improvement in the local economy compared to the budgets that the representative Jensen voted for in the previous ageing period. This means that there has been a great deal of room for bets on kindergartens, schools, culture, care and other areas that each municipality itself has prioritised. Fortunately, one here also sees significant improvements in many areas. When it comes to kindergartens, the development of kindergartens is particularly financed by a very large investment investment investment and clientele, in the billions class, that goes to local development. In addition, there are some challenges when it comes to land and treatment, which are not primarily due to high expenditure. So I see that many municipalities will get better supply both when it comes to care, school, kindergartens and other areas, because of the efforts of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e201	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e204	I can understand that the Council of State does not answer Erna Solberg's question, when the Municipality of Oslo has not been offered a single empty even if they have reminders of the state. Yesterday, the Council of State said that we are very close to full child care coverage. Only 4000 places are missing. But it's a creative bookkeeping, because not everyone who wants kindergarten during the year counts. Øystein Djupedal has said before that we don't know what full coverage is until we have the new maximum price. Only one of four municipalities has an income graded parent payment, and the maximum price level 2 has been promised before the end of this year, but it has not been met. How can the Council of State say that we are very close to full coverage, when many parents still can't afford kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e211	In the past, there has been no national definition of full child-care coverage, however, many localities. In order to measure, among other things, we've seen a definition of it for this year that we see as reasonable, that everyone who applied for a spot before the main take-up would have a place before the end of the year. Then we have contacted all the municipalities to see how they are compared to that goal, so that they can compare with others, and so that everyone can see how we, as a government, are doing. Then the answer is that we're almost in goal, but not completely, and it's serious for them. When it comes to the issue of price, it is quite right that full child care coverage and demand depend on the price. Now we have kept up the price of NOK 2,330. I cannot say anything about the way forward when it comes to how the price will be, but it is true that future price reductions will lead to a greater need for development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e220	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e223	I must say that Solhjell's statements have been quite provocative to the Oslo citizens. Now we've managed to get this town so close to track that people actually want to live in the center with little kids, which they didn't have before. It's made things very different. This has led to an enormous pressure on everything we have of green space. SV and Left have had to stand together many times to stop kindergarten expansion that would have destroyed green space that would make it popular to live in the town with little kids. But SV has been against a lot of other projects as well. For example, in St. Hanshaugen, who has a lot of problems in providing kindergartens, SV has opposed the use of buses and outdoor children's gardens to get a good offer for the kids. Why is it that SV opposes things locally, but insists on local politicians that they do not get things through centrally?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e228	I myself have been in Oslo for many years and bid in the same district as the representative Skei Grande. I don't do that anymore, but I can sign that it's a great and exciting city – and city – to live in. SV has proposed, in a series of contexts in Oslo, the development and regulation of plots for kindergarten purposes in recent years. Among other things, in the context of large-scale development projects, SV has submitted proposals to the City Council on several kindergartens or that it should be required to do so, and one has proposed regulations. Then there is also an example that SV, as also the representative Skei Grande mentions, has in some cases not supported development projects. However, the important thing is that we take responsibility nationally and now they have submitted superior figures. In addition, the Board of Governors of individual cities must take responsibility. It turns out that a lot of big cities have come into being, other big cities have not come into being, despite that, for example. in Oslo, has had clear goals for many years in front of the voters to reach goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e235	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e238	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. An important tool to prevent crime is zero tolerance. Lawbreakers must see that crime, large and small, is not accepted by society. Not least, this is important to young offenders, as the Storberget's own party has pointed out. Police Norway has long pointed to the challenges of serious crime, trafficking, recrimination, etc. Not least, Oslo has had one of the worst years for a long, long time in terms of the number of rape cases. The half-yearly figures from the police also show a sharp increase in gross acts of violence. They also show that the large volume is still a winning crime, and here you have an explanation rate of 18 pst. Not long ago the Minister of Justice stated that he wanted a better use of the money that the Oslo police get. He challenged the Oslo police to make better priorities. So far, the Minister of Justice has not answered what he thinks must be done, but he has, on the other hand, challenged the people of Oslo to do so. The consequence of this for Oslo part is that one has to consider putting one of the world's most advanced police helicopters on the ground. I further expect that the natural thing to do is to give priority to issues relating to moral crimes, violence and young people under 18. In addition to this, the chances of the police fighting crime are minimal. But I have seen that the Council of State has given a signal about what should be given priority. After a heated debate on the apprehension of a thief, he said this week that the civil weight industry should not use power, that's the task of the police. Since the Minister of Justice is also Minister of Police, I expect him to have enabled the police to handle these tasks that he himself points out. It doesn't seem like it when you read in the newspapers about frustrated entrepreneurs or others who don't feel like the police are setting up when you need help and expect help. Furthermore, it cannot be that we should have a freedom for people who commit crime if only crime is low enough. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: What should the threshold be to be able to expect police assistance – should there be a value of one hundred, one fifty, or two hundred?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e252	It is difficult to specify any values for police intervention. But for the government, it's imperative now that we just get more police out there, especially in the big cities. It's about organisation, which I've pointed out a number of times, but it's also about how we have to be able to train more policemen in Norway. That's why I'm not so proud that we're actually getting as big a recording at the police high school as we have. Had we had it in place during the last four-year period of the Bondevik government, we would today have 400-500 additional policemen out in Norway. The recording that is now taking place at the Police College is record high; it has not been so large in ten years. I believe that it is the key to getting more policemen out, so that in many ways you too can lower the threshold for when the police intervene in situations. That's absolutely necessary. But we are also totally dependent on the fact that we can now do grapple, among other things. to the seniors. I have several times here in Stortinget explained what is actually being done, where we, among other things. Starts a pilot scheme in one district to get more seniors to stand in positions. The third thing that I think is also very important, and it's also about organizing, is that you now get more of those who are doing civil work in the police today, out in regular police work. This means that when you increase the resources available to the Norwegian police, as the government has done, and as we will also do next year, you will be able to free some of those who are currently working on civil tasks, just to come out and do the work that both the Progress Party and not least the government parties see as very important. The last thing I want to say is that besides strengthening the police in this way, we also have to have an active look at prevention. There I warmly welcome...
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e263	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What does not surprise me, but which I take note of, is that the Council of State does not have an ambition about the threshold for where the effort will go. I also record that he takes self-criticism for the lack of training of police officers during the previous period, among other things. through its own budgetary settlement with the previous Government. Of course, he should pay attention to that, although I may not be sure that it was intended in this case. However, the challenge in the Council's response is that the educational capacity that the Council of State now boasts is not enough to meet the needs we have today. The Oslo police alone run with approx. 100 job vacancies. Natural retirement in the form of retirement and people applying for employment in other professions mean that the rate of departure is higher than that of newly educated policemen. We're not going to solve this. And then when the government council is critical of one of the other branches that actually helps keep the system in place, in connection with money transport and other things, namely the weight industry, I'm surprised. Then my question is: what kind of solutions does the Council of State see about the relationship between the police and what the weights stand for?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e272	There's one not too bad solution The government has chosen in the absence of policemen, one actually chooses to train more policemen. You'd like to characterize it in the opposition as a show of glory. But once we've chosen to run the recording as high at the Police College as we do now, that's the solution to get more policemen in Norway. Nor is it possible for the Advance Party to escape. Then you might get to fight about the history of the four years that the last Bondevik government set up. But I remember that if we had had the same recording when we are now running, we would have had between 400 and 500 extra policemen, such as. would have covered up the vacancies we're facing in Oslo, and I'm just as concerned that we're going to fill up as Elling's representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e279	Morten Ørsal Johansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e282	Governments are concerned that, among other things: In Oslo, he's going to spend the money better, and he's also very busy training more policemen. The Council of States must be commended for that. But how will the Council of State solve the problem of the more efficient use of money, the more the Council of State in the budget of the Oslo Police? How, then, will he be able to employ more policemen to perform the service needed to get a safe and good capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e289	Our government has not cut the appropriations of the Oslo Police District, we have increased the appropriations of the police district. Since 2000, if taken in a larger historical context, the Oslo Police operating budget has been strengthened from 1.1 to 1.4 billion kroner. So at least we're going to try to have the sizes right when it comes to police issues. What the Oslo police experienced in 2005 was that the outgoing government made a cut, which we wanted to fix. We also did that in the supplementary proposition that came. This does not mean that Oslo police are not still facing major challenges and the need for resources. But I think we can't just solve this by giving more money in, we're totally dependent on that we're also getting more money for the heads that are being granted. We're going to do both. The decision that Stortinget was invited to make here the other day, among other things. For a major DNA reform, extra funds are also allocated to the police districts – over 60 million. We're going to spend it on it. There's also something that will pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e296	André Oktay Dahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e299	Over the weight industry, the Council of State has had a strategy for two years: nothing seen and nothing heard. All proposals have been voted down, budgets have not increased, and TV 2 has had a better overview than the Council of State and POT together. Small, medium-sized and large companies have asked for help in getting better control of the unprofessional parts of their industry. Governments call it unprofessional and have had no dialogue with the industry in two years, despite their begging and asking for it. Actually, after over two years, the State Council of an Oscar inspires for the best side role in this matter. When has the Government planned to make the necessary legislative changes, tightening up and improving control procedures, we in Oslo saw in particular, where the police are struggling with tight budgetary frameworks because of this government's policy, not seeing a blossoming of what I would call – once again, it is possible that it is not parliamentary – chewing berry police activities, which happen because of the Oslo Police's lack of resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e306	It was a little unclear to me what the question really was. But when that is said, I would say that before the representative Oktay Dahl swallows raw the arguments that are now out in public space regarding the weight industry, he might also want to check a little bit what is the real fact of the situation. It is not true that this government and the department have not been in contact with the weight industry, as it was claimed, among other things. in the sacred day's revision, which I understand must be part of the source of this statement that now comes from the representative Oktay Dahl. Last week we had a meeting with the weights industry. We are in a joint working group in the ministry, just to review the legislation in this field. This group also met in October. We believe that we actually have the main role in the issue of the development of legislation that surrounds the weighting industry. I am not so provoked by both the question from Oktay Dahl and the claims that now come from the weight industry, where one tries almost to shift responsibility, get it over to the public, under the condition that we are not available and have no contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e313	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e316	The struggle for security is now, and then it does not help with Bolshevik history about the past. Under three out of four years under the Bondevik II government, the admission to the Police College increased. But it is also the case that recently during the financial debate the government parties voted down the Left's proposal on 550 policemen trained from the next fall of and about civil positions. But when the situation is this, I'd rather go into the weighting industry. My key question to the Council of State is, when we know that there are weights, and we know that weights have the same right as the Council of State or any other citizen to hold back: will we now get a systematic, well-described code of what weights can do, and what they can't do, in public space? The police have a very solid background for this. Will we have such a code, and will we have simplified procedures for reporting to the police so that we can have systematic control of this exercise of power? It should ideally be that the police take care of people and weigh on buildings, but if we are to have them, we must have clear rules of play. So do we get the rules in detail?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e326	That's what we're doing now. I remind you that the working group and the work that we are doing started before the last episode showed up in the case of weights. So I think it's worth clarifying that we're not doing this on the basis of the last episode, we're doing it on the basis of actually a good deal of events that have happened in the weighting industry. The use of power that we see deeply worries me. There is a need not only to look at the question of competence and the criteria to be applied to those entering this type of industry, but also now to have a review of the rules surrounding instruments, as asked by Mr Dørum. It was precisely in Dørum's time that the Council of State also had a debate on this, among other things. by providing the weighing industry and all of us with a certain opportunity to hold back offenders who are closer to fresh work, or on fresh tracks. There's a need in this game to do something about it. That is why I have set up this working group – which has been reduced and which has already had several meetings – where we actually feel that we have good dialogue with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e333	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e336	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. In these days there are Christmas graduations in the school. Unfortunately, there is once again concern and uncertainty in the school regarding Christmas labelling. Teacher and management are in doubt about whether it is allowed to sing Christmas songs and to have Christmas services. The government has sent out a proposal to remove the CRL subject at school. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the subject is in line with human rights. The European Court of Human Rights has assessed the subject during the 1997–2001 run-in period. After that, with broad political support, we have implemented the necessary changes, not later than 2005, in order to ensure that human rights are respected. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that there is no need for major changes in the CRL subject. We believe that the adjustments pointed out in the judgment have already been made. It seems that the minister of knowledge is using the sentence to remove the KRL subject. That is why I should like to ask for concrete reasons for two aspects. Firstly, the government proposes to change the name of the CRL subject by removing the word "Christianity" so that the subject should be called Religion, Life View and Ethics. This is done ‘as one of several measures to follow up the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights’. My question is, where in the judgment is the subject's name problematized? And further, the government is proposing to remove today's rule on the percentage distribution of quantities between the different main areas of the subject. Today, Christianity has a greater emphasis than other religions in view of the place Christianity has in the national history and tradition of Norway. My question is, where in the judgment is it problematic that Christianity is given a greater place in the subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e351	Let me first briefly mention, since it was recorded, that school gods are allowed, for example. in connection with Christmas, in the Norwegian school, if the school complies with some of the basic regulations, so that it is clear. So to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Norway has been convicted of having a subject in school that breaks with, or is indicted, human rights. It's a very serious thing. We in Norway are ourselves of that opinion, and Norwegian courts have said that this is not the case, but we are still condemned in the European Court of Human Rights. There has therefore been a need to clarify how the subject can be in line with human rights. So it's not right if you have the impression that from the government's side we've used this to make changes. We have made the necessary changes with the aim that there should be no doubt that the subject is in line with human rights. We think that when you have a subject to create respect and dialogue, it's crucial that it's in line with human rights, and that we, for example. avoids new legal proceedings if so. The judgment points to two specific aspects – that is the purpose paragraph and some aspects of the training law § 2–4 – but otherwise refers to the health. We've got legal advice on what changes are going to be in line with this, and we've put forward a proposal based on that. I would particularly like to point out that the proposal that has been put to the ears, and of a curriculum in the future, is that quantitatively Christianity is still the major part of religious education – as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e360	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We are very concerned not to make more extensive changes than is necessary — and that is why changes have been made — and we must point out that it is true that the subject is as it was when it was new, not as it is now, when the changes have been made. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that knowledge of the Christian values should not be lost. Therefore, it is reasonable that Christianity is given a special place in school – not in the form of preaching, but in the form of engaging knowledge dissemination. In an interview in Our Country, the Council of State said that ‘you have to stop preaching’. My question is, what kind of cover does the Council of State have to say that the teachers who teach at school today are preaching? Is it not a huge distrust of the teachers who today teach in a field of knowledge where it is Christian knowledge to be taught in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e369	Announcement in today's CRL field is not allowed, and will not be in the future. Today's CRL is a knowledge subject and should be in the future as well. That sounds like we're some people about it. But there's a need to clarify this, because we're actually condemned for the Christian part of the subject, as he is today, against human rights. Now we have sent a proposal with what we perceive as necessary changes, on hearing. When one sends a proposal on the phone, many, I guess – and I have reason to believe – will turn right. My ambition is that we should both have a dialogue with the parties on Stortinget and go through all the listening questions that come, and make a proposal for Storinget at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e374	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e377	There are a number of parents, students and teachers who are concerned about whether this government is in the process of downplaying the Christian purpose paragraph, the Christian part of the CRL subject. That concern is not merely expressed in doubt about Christmas services. I recently heard that it was a question of whether it was allowed to sing Christian Christmas songs in school. The table-verse discussion is well known, and it has appeared again. And then last, it's the KRL. The Christian People's Party has been eager for a broad, pooling subject, which conveys our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage and also other religions in respect of their peculiarity. It's been a joint project for almost the entire Biggest. Every time there have been adjustments in the subject, we have had a dialogue line – not a split and ruling line. We feel that the Government has left that line in many ways, but I am pleased with what the Council of State is now saying, and I would like to ask: will the Council of State ensure that there is a dialogue with the opposition in the Storting before the matter is presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e384	Let me first, just to clarify it, say that there are no changes when it comes to Christmas or table verses this Christmas. And, as I said, giving certain appointments is allowed to offer schoolgods services to students. The CRL subject was modified at a specific point, namely the exemption rules, in 2005. But the very Christian part of the subject, for which we are condemned, has undergone only insignificant changes. The legal advice we've been given makes it clear that if the subject is to be open to human rights, we now have to make changes. Finally, let me say that I am prepared to have a dialogue with the opposition in Stortinget, and I am prepared to speak to others who express their views on the proposal we have now sent out on the phone, and I look forward to a good debate with the representative of Højbrätten about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e393	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e396	It is important to know your own background and cultural heritage in order to understand others, and so the Right has also been critical of the proposed changes in the CRL subject. We're not the only party that is. In our country, December 11, we can read that a new life - vision profession creates resentment in the Center Party. Per Olaf Lundtigen from the government party of the Centerpartiet, says: ‘I do not see the need for a change in the CRL subject’. To the extent that he supports the proposal, the Social Force of the Centre Party answers Vedum: ‘No’. My question is really simple: how can it be that the two government parties SV and the Central Party look so different on the question of the need for change in the CRL subject? After what the Council of State has previously said in this round, it is not possible to interpret the Council of State in any other way than that the Central Party Party violates human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e409	The government has a fairly clear view of this issue, and it is that we have been forced to make changes in the CRL field as it stands today, because the subject has been sentenced in the European Court of Human Rights to violate human rights. It's a very serious thing. That is why we have submitted the necessary changes and sent them to the audience now. Then we're going to have a further process with that before we finally make a proposal to the Storting. Let me use the ability to clarify that it should be so that because of our historical tradition and cultural heritage Christianity has a clearly greater part of the teaching of the subject than other religions. That's the way it is today. On the other hand, we must be outgoing, there must be no doubt that there should be no preaching. We must clarify it in the light of the judgment given by the EMD.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e416	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e419	My question goes to the Council of State Solhell, and it says this: Yes, think it; wish it; would it with; – but do it! No, I don't get it! Today it's not about Peer Gynt in the third act and the first stage, but it's about State Council Solhell that tells us about everything he wants by VG on December 4th, after the state custom that now characterises the Swedish government councils: Trust in the press, but not the Stortinget. There, the Council of State tells straight out that he wants systematic further training for teachers. However, after the introduction of parliamentaryism, state councils should deal with the Stortinget. And what's happening in the Storting is that when the Left is promoting proposals to develop an obliging capacity, further education, for teachers, it's voted down by the government parties, including SV. If you want to break through, the Left has now learned that we are making budgetary negotiations with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in Oslo, because then we are actually getting this systematic further training, such a teacher's promise. The deep wonder is that the Council of State, which admits that he is happy with teachers, will do something about teacher training, will do something about further education, does it anywhere other than in the Stortinget. And that's in the Storting you're going to do it. It is also the case that if the Council of State wants to take inspiration, it is at these times that a Norwegian government can take inspiration in Sweden in the field of environmental policy – that is actually the way it is. But it is also possible to get inspiration in Sweden, which now systematically does what the Left proposes, namely to create a learning lift through systematic further training, and to commit to spending the money on it. When we get back to the situation, and aren't in Peer Gynt, where, as I said, it's about not acting, not doing anything that's entirely, my question becomes to the Council of State: when can we count on SV having its thoughts, dreams, wishes, opinions practical against? When will Stortinget get a systematic set-up for further training of teachers who are committed to money, and which means that we know what we are going to do in Norway when we are going to build up competence for Norwegian teachers, for society and for Norwegian students?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e430	The teacher is the most important adult in school and has a decisive influence on what students learn, and on how good the Norwegian school is. That's why it's extremely important that we bet on our teachers in the future. We have to give teachers responsibility and trust in what students learn, a clear responsibility for it. We need to go through teacher training and see if we can make improvements in the future that both increase recruitment and do it better than it is today. And not least, there is a need for systematic continuing training of teachers. In fact, in the budget for 2008, there is a commitment to systematic continuing training of learners of 375 million. a follow-up to the Knowledge Lift and the previous decision of the Storting on it and of previous financial investments of the same size. It's also the case that municipalities and counties in Norway together have an economic stake of the same size. It is a significant skill lift that is now being implemented around the schools, with contributions from both the state, from the state and from the municipalities, and as we see it has a clear effect. Then I am busy that for the years to come we will be able to continue with a commitment to continuing training. In the spring, I would like to send a big message about quality in school. One of the important themes to be considered there is an effort to continue training. I want to come back to how we can systematize that work. I will also return to the promises for the years after 2008 in the future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e439	Storing messages are often the emergency response of state councils when you have no money, and this government has chosen that emergency response. It has been repeatedly done by the predecessors of the Council of State, the Council of State, Djupedal, to deliver messages when he has no money. And here it's about prioritizing the money, and the government of the Council has chosen to prioritize the money for a full-day school instead of betting on the teachers, and that's the priority of the money that counts. It's just that these days we get one message after another on the NRK that we're missing teachers. And what the Council of State could do was, for example, ensuring that the regulation of the Training Act that the requirement of competence is not linked to employment but to teaching itself had been implemented. But it doesn't happen. It's only been a short time since the government councils and parties voted down proposals that left and other opposition parties had to recruit enough teachers. This government has a line called "Know it to the press," but don't commit yourself to Stortinget. When will there be an obligation to have a binding recruitment plan for Norwegian teachers, so that we have at least enough of them and do not have to resort to unskilled people in the situations we are now being notified of?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e448	It is also the case that what the Government does next year is to invest in both continuing and continuing education and a skill lift for teachers and to get more hours in reading, in accounting and in the central disciplines of the first years, which can provide students with greater learning outcomes — as well. We have a stake of 375 million. kr – I repeat it, and that is because it is a far greater bet than what was in the budget of the previous government in connection with the Knowledge Lift. In addition, significant amounts are invested from municipalities and counties. And then we also find room for an extension of five hours from next year, which I've seen that the representative Dørum and Left didn't want. Especially in the light of the results we now have from the PISA and PIRLS studies, which show that Norwegian elephants get poor results in reading, I believe two extra Norwegian hours, which go significantly to reading, and hours other than those that can be used for reading, will be an important contribution to turning the course there, so that we get better reading results in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e455	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e458	In school too, the government has great promises, especially through the press, but when it comes to implementation it fails — just as it does in areas such as kindergarten development and care for the elderly. This is primarily because the government speaks on behalf of 430 municipalities, but does not have the power or authority to ensure that all municipalities actually give the same, good quality to all residents throughout the country. My questions to the Council of State are as follows: Can he guarantee that the quality of teacher training will be demonstrated in all the municipalities of the country in the future? Will the quality of education, the professional benefit that our children should have equal rights to wherever they live in the country, also appear in all the municipalities of the country, in line with the rhetoric of the government about how much money they transfer to the municipalities, and how much they intend to invest in improving these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e465	The extra hours that come next year will apply to the school in all Norwegian municipalities. We now see that there is a significant leverage for teachers with funds from the state, the state and the municipalities. My clear impression is that it happens all over the country, in the vast majority, if not all, Norwegian municipalities, and that it hits elephants and teachers across the country. It is also such that when we have improved the municipal economy, it has given room for increased bets across the country. But – and that’s important – it’s that Norway looks quite different in different places. We therefore place great emphasis on the fact that some places are particularly concentrated on care for the elderly who are given priority; in other places, there is a particular focus on schooling or perhaps culture — or even on paying off debts. Therefore, it is smart to improve the local economy, because then local politicians, elected by the people, will have the opportunity to prioritise locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e472	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e475	The Christian People's Party is very concerned that there is a lot of competence in school today. It's important to take care of it. That is why we have proposed in our alternative budget a mentoring system that consists of teachers who have good knowledge and long experience from school, transferring it, mentoring and following new teachers who start school. I would like to know if the Council of State would like to include it, both because it is good that the competence stays at school, and because it is a good senior policy and a meaningful task for teachers who do a good job at school today. That's the one. The second is that we see that the teacher's density goes down, despite an improved municipal economy, at least there are trends to it in many municipalities. Then my question is, is it right to give priority to full-time school instead of increasing teacher's density? The Christian People's Party would like there to be enough time for every student in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e485	Let me just say that the number we're comparing, because this year and last year, shows that there's a very stable trend in learning density. Of course, this means that there are better places and worse places elsewhere. We are of the opinion that it is right to prioritize the combination of teachers and several hours on the road towards the all-day ball, as was also the previous government, in which the Christian People's Party participated, prioritised, through an extension of the hour. So I thought it's an interesting suggestion the Christian People's Party has. I have previously reported here from the Stockholm Chair that I want to look at proposals that are being made in the Stortingen in terms of skills requirements and other things in order to improve school leadership. I also want to look at a number of suggestions on how to improve the skills of teachers, which can be even better than today. I think it's an interesting suggestion, which I want to take a closer look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e492	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e495	In the Right, we are pleased that SV is pursuing school policy, and that the Minister of Knowledge is now most concerned about scrapping SV's own school policy platform. But this must not lead to paralysis in school policy. We talk a lot about the teacher being in the center, and we all agree on that. This is why the opposition has just made a number of proposals in terms of both recruitment and teacher empowerment. What they're being met with from the Minister of Knowledge is that you have to evaluate and maybe also make a big message. The school benefit today was expressed by the representative of Dørum. There'll be a lot of words. The previous government, on the other hand, acted, and the Minister of Knowledge is also so lucky that he has a number of municipalities, including Oslo, that continue to act and exercise a very active ownership in school. It's actually pretty important to get there. Will the Minister of Knowledge use the municipalities that have an active school policy as an inspiration for school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e504	Firstly, I will follow up the Soria Moria Declaration of the Government, where the main parts of SV's programme have been implemented and the direction is very clear – towards SV. So to the question, yes, there are many municipalities, Oslo, Skedsmo and many others I myself have visited, who do a very good job when it comes to school, and there's a lot to learn from. I'm going to take a closer look at how they've done it in these municipalities and in a number of other municipalities when it comes to different relationships in the future, because I think there's a lot to learn there. So I've noticed that when there's good results in a municipality run by the Right, like Oslo at school, the Right attaches great importance to the fact that this comes from good political efforts from the Right, but when there's something worse in the same municipality in another area, that's when it comes to kindergartens, they put far less emphasis on the responsibility that the Right has for the results in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e513	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e516	My question also goes to the Minister of Knowledge. We have just received the results of the PIRLS and PISA studies, which show that Norwegian students are at the bottom of their reading, writing and calculating skills. If one goes further into the results, we find that students with a minority background are two years behind ethnic Norwegian schoolchildren. Norwegian school is currently using substantial resources in native language training. Neither Norwegian nor international research shows that the teaching of the mother tongue gives each student some benefit. What research shows is that these students spend relatively longer time achieving good results. In order to be qualified, the student has to be surveyed, and it has to be documented that the student is poor in Norwegian. On the day that the student becomes a good student in Norwegian, the student loses the right to training in the native language. The mother tongue teacher loses his job, and the school no longer receives a grant to have a student with Norwegian as a second language. So there's no incentive to improve your student's Norwegian skills, rather on the contrary. Then we have a number of schools that have deliberately invested in training in Norwegian and read understanding and used individual mapping and follow-up. Reading skills have gone up. In order to be able to read and understand, the students have moved with them to other subjects, and the progress has not been missed. The progress party believes that the parent language training needs to be out of school, and that the resources released need to be used to strengthen the reading training and understanding of the Norwegian language further. In our opinion, lack of knowledge in Norwegian, combined with problems and unrest in classrooms and low learning pressures, will lead to minority students becoming school losers, and we risk creating a subclass if we do not reduce the performance gap between ethnic Norwegian and minority languages. So my question is: will the Council of State take the initiative to use the funds currently used for parent language training to strengthen the ability of minority language students to read and understand Norwegian, so that this student group can have the opportunity to improve their performance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e533	The results of the international studies mentioned here are very serious, and perhaps the most important ones in terms of reading. So we see that the reading results are worse in the PISA survey 2006 measured against 2000. Too many people don't learn the basics of reading and writing, which is important for all other subjects. It is also important for the possibilities of working life and, in general, of growing up. It is an important social issue, and it is an important knowledge issue for everyone to have equal opportunities. Unfortunately, we also see that the differences between elephants in Norway are greater than between elephants in other Nordic countries. Among other things, sadly elephants with a minority background make it even worse than average in all countries. It's a very big challenge. I have a number of actions and systematics in my work ahead when it comes to reading, which should benefit both the elephants with a minority background and all other elephants. There is a commitment to teacher training and continuing training and several hours, and there is a commitment to reading in all subjects. Furthermore, we need to look at kindergartens and language training there, the collaboration with the home, osb. Then there's a discussion related to native language training about how it works to learn another language. There are different views, which the representative is probably aware of, but I have no plans to change the system we have today that it is possible to get language training under certain conditions. On the other hand, I want to do other things to improve the reading skills of all the elephants, which will also take the elephants with a minority background.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e542	I thank you for your answer. I expect the Council of State to also agree that we are spending a lot of resources in Norwegian school, but that the results are out of proportion to the resources we spend at school, and that there is reason for critically looking at what we are actually using resources on. Much of the money currently spent on parenting education is devoted to monitoring and documenting and archiving decisions, precisely to ensuring that schools are safe in the event of an ex-post legal case. The supervisory authorities do not have the possibility to follow up. When we see at the same time that the results of this teaching do not give the students any relief, I expect that the Council of State might also look at it in its future assessment to make the Norwegian school better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e549	Åse M. Schmidt – for follow-up questions. No, I'm sorry. State Council Solhjell answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e554	Thank you, I was in doubt if it was necessary to answer after that. But let me say briefly that I agree that we're not getting enough for the resources we put in, because we need better results in school. It's actually a context, and it also shows the PISA study, between resources and results, but there's a number of other things that are at least equally important for achieving results. Parental education is important to many elephants in the Norwegian school, and there are many good offers. I don't have any plans to change it, because I think there are completely different things and broader measures that are more important to improve the skills in reading to Norwegian elephants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e563	Then it's Åse M. Schmidt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e567	We heard here the representative Gåsvatn talk about mother tongue training. We also see that the legislation is very unclear. The municipalities interpret this differently. We see that there are children, maybe with German background, with Romanian background, who get native language training, so it should be good to talk to their grandparents. I might think that it's not entirely the intention of the Council of State to use native language training in that direction. Now the government doesn't want to change this. SV will continue to have parent language training as it is today. Will the Council of State also look at the use and make the legislation clearer? And one last question: can it be relevant to think about labeling for the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e576	I am of the opinion that there is a lot of good language training in the Norwegian school, and I know that many elephants need it. I don't see any need to make any changes to the legislation, or to stop with native language training and today's offer. I would like to send a big message about language the following year, and in connection with that message I will go through some aspects of the native language training, and then come back to Stortinget with it. I also have no plans to change the way we transfer money to Norwegian municipalities. We're giving the municipalities money, and we're giving far more money than the previous government gave, because it's going to be possible to prioritize different relationships in many places. Fortunately, many of the important areas in which the Government is busy are heavily invested.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e583	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e586	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. In the election campaign, red-green justice politicians promised that 2008 would be the year of the police. Now the line is set for the 2008 budget, and it is a fact that 2008 is not going to be the year of the police. This week, the Council of State has expressed concern about the balance of power between police and sentinels in the public space, and today, the VG has a first page that the hearings have taken over Karl Johan's gate. It is in this situation that 2008 was to be the year of the police, that the government is adding to a 2008 police budget that means more unoccupied positions and a less visible police force in all the police districts of the country. While the Bondevik II government had a real growth of 3 pst. in its last budget for justice, this government is now down in 1 pst. I find that there is a greater and greater distance in the reality of the everyday life of the police. So there's been some sort of glamour in the department, while the operative business is not so beautiful out there. There is a short interval between press reports from the Council of State on new initiatives in the field of criminal law, but there is a very wide gap between similar news about the police. That's a lot of talk. Except for increased admissions at 72 places to the Police College, there's little to pick up in that budget. I don't think it's worth boasting about a senior bet in one trial team, Hordaland, and so there won't be any more civil servants in the police when there's no room to pay them in the 2008 budget. My question to the Council of State is: if there is a real concern the Council of State has with regard to the weights and the police, why isn't the police a priority in the 2008 budget? Why is it that very important police intervention areas are fed with short-term project funding instead of sustainable funding – I can mention rape, recriminalism and trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e602	First of all, I want to wish the questioner a good new year. It is going to be a better new year, at least as far as justice policy is concerned. The percentages she refers to when it comes to the budget, I can't say I share. Next year, the justice effort within the Ministry of Justice’s budget – if we also include the investments made in other budgets – is on record DKK 1.9 billion. That's what we're going to spend extra on the justice sector. There are large investments that contribute to increased police force. I believe that you should allow yourself to think something further than just on the appropriations for the police, which are also increasing. Until next year, the appropriations will be at their highest level. I have problems understanding that there is a defensive police effort when extra SEK 1.9 billion is added to the justice budget and the justice sector by building a very high prison rate, by establishing a completely new emergency link, such as a new one. The police have been asking for many years, when you have a recording at the 432-secondary high school, and when you start one of the biggest reforms, which in my opinion contribute to increased clarification, namely the DNA reform, which is funded by between 60 and 70 million. kr. I could mention several measures. Yesterday we opened the Hamar Children's House, which is also run by the police. We've opened one in Bergen. We're going to open up three new ones for next year. We meet children in a completely different way. These are not just words on the issue of strengthening the police, yes, the entire justice sector, efforts and responsibilities. Next year we will face major challenges. Among other things, we need to: use new methods that will solve more crime. I also believe that we have spent the last few years building up the reconciliation queue, which this week is less than 1 100 judges. It's a significant reduction since the Right set with government. Then it was up to 3,000. We're going to have to get the payoff down to zero. It will also give the police greater power and opportunities for custody and redress.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e613	I'm also going to use the chance to wish the Council of State a good new year, but it's not going to be a good new year of police operation. It is correct, as the Council of State said, that significant investments have been made in emergency networks, DNA and child care. However, in the operational everyday life, the police experience that they are still short, that they are still being fed with project funding in key areas of action. This means that you have less continuity with regard to staffing and applications for this type of job. So the Council of State will not avoid 2008 being a very difficult year for the police. I want to challenge the Council of State. He's concerned that we should have a knowledge-driven justice policy. Why, then, is it that the Council of State and the Government parties cannot support a police study, which would in fact be a much more thorough review of what kind of police needs we want in the future than the manning project currently being carried out by the Department?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e622	It is true that we are doing the work that lies in the representative's questions, namely looking at the situation in the police. I guess the representative's familiar with that. There will be a report for next year looking at crew needs, response time, equipment questions and questions about how to recruit even more police officers than we do. There, to my knowledge, we are in a debate about what you call the work that you do. I understand that the Right has chosen to call it a police study. I'm glad we're doing that work. At the same time, I would like to stress: what is more useful for the Norwegian police, what creates more police force and a better resource situation outside, than that we actually give the police in Norway the opportunity, among other things. using DNA to a much greater extent than when the Right sat with the Governmental Power? It has to be one of the most important things we do now to solve more crime. The percentage of information goes up, but it's too low. I believe that the reform that we are about to launch will remedy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e629	André Oktay Dahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e632	I record that a knowledge-based policy is that the Council of State is giving lectures, or not relevant research. Of today's VG, it appears that a male growth representative has been exposed to something he naturally does not like. The most special thing is the input of the female wholesalers into how to solve it. This is to be done by tightening up police regulations, and by prioritising this to the police. Is there any reason to believe that the female representatives of big business are being heard, for example. in revised? In the past, this has been voted in favour of the Stortinget, both in terms of budgets and in terms of police regulations. Since it's Christmas, and since Christmas cards have been sent, I would like to extend a greeting to the Council of State on the debate we are going to have on these women. It's very strange to see that as soon as it's dark-skinned women, they're whores. If they're white, they're prostitutes. I think there is something I say about the signal effect and the really small racist vision that underpins some of the representatives – not from here, but partly from the debate – view of these women in order to solve a serious social problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e641	When dealing with the problems we see out in the public space associated with prostitution, I'm very concerned that you should be careful to think easy solutions. These are people living in a bottomless, tragic situation. If you want to put more police into the kind of challenges we are facing here, I am concerned – which I also believe the previous government was concerned about – with taking those who organize this human trafficking. That's why the government decided to set up its own group in the Oslo police district to get in touch with the girls and the boys, so you can get behind them. The entire human trafficking plan of the Government, which includes: provided increased reflection time for these girls and the possibility of more assistance in the form of an aid lawyer, etc., is just about not solving this problem by chasing them around the city. They need a completely different offer. That's the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e646	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e650	There is no evidence that the Minister of Justice will be unemployed next year. I want to grasp one side of the representative that Aspaker brought up, namely the capacity of the police. In Oslo police district, we have had a number of quite ugly tax evasion cases that affect entire industries to the extent. In November, the director of the Oslo Equation Office expressed great concern that serious tax fraud reported by the tax authorities is not being prosecuted, solely on the grounds that the police have no capacity and would rather not want to report. With the 2008 operating budget, does the Minister of Justice think that the Director of the Oslo Equation Office has any reason to have a different assumption for 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e657	I clearly believe that we have major challenges in dealing with the economic criminal acts that the tax rate covers, and also other types of industries. We can never guarantee – nor can I – that we can investigate all the matters we would like to have investigated. One important reason why the government believes that we need more police resources out, and that we have given more money to the police is that we want to address these issues. That was also why we chose, among other things, to grant money to an outsourced auditor. But these are very complex issues, and I believe that if we are to have a more effective law enforcement of special tax crime, we will probably have to see the need to have two tracks – where some cases are solved by civil law instruments, criminal taxes, and the most serious are being investigated by the police and corrected by the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e666	Then today's oral Question Time is over, and we're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e672	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 3, 6 and 7 from the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Vera Lyskleätt and Tord Lien of the Minister for Oil and Energy, respectively, are answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. Question 4, from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn. Question 5, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Questions 10 and 11, from the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg and Torbjørn Hansen respectively to the Minister of Defence, are moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire. Question 20, from the representative of Trond Helleland to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 21, from the representative of André N. Skjelstad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 7, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 22, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister of Knowledge, will be raised by the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e695	The changes mean that the first questions to be addressed are questions 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e702	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘According to Defence Study 07, the proposed closure of the Control and Reporting Centre is: [[CRC]] Does the Council of State consider it scientifically sound to terminate the CRC system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e711	Before Easter, the government will present the new long-term proposal for the Defence of the Storting. In the work on the proposition, the Government will draw on several recordings, including the Defence Study 07, FS 07 of the Defence Manager, and the Defence Policy Selection report, FPU, as well as all the other recordings that came in the process. The government is concerned that we will continue to ensure a robust capacity for monitoring Norwegian airspace in the future. That is why, in the next long term, we will also provide a device for the air surveillance and combat management system, the LOS system, which will meet our national needs for air surveillance and combat management, and which will also ensure that we can make a good contribution to the NATO air surveillance chain. The Defence Manager has recommended the establishment of a single unit for air surveillance and combat management on Retan, with the same capacity as the current two units on Mågerø and in Sørreisa respectively. No conclusions have yet been drawn on the future base structure and geographic location of the defence. The question of the future activity related to Mågerø and Sørreisa will be addressed as an integral part of the overall work on the long-term proposition. FS 07, together with the recommendations from the FPU, is a central input into the work we do on the long-term proposition. We're going through these thoroughly. Particular attention is paid to ensuring that the recommendations to be made to the Storting are comprehensive and robust. In such a context, both security and defence policy, operational, economic, environmental and a number of other considerations will be considered. It is not appropriate to go out and deal with specific individual matters piece by piece and divided before the Government has concluded with regard to the whole to be presented to the Stortinget. For the Government, it is important that the basic structure of the defence is structured in such a way that the defence can best perform its tasks. The Government will therefore seek solutions that cover the needs of the defence as much as possible, including both the need to ensure robust and sustainable professional environments and the ability to be able to be present quickly with the right capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e724	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm also familiar with a long-term proposition where you have to go through the base structure, but that's not what I'm asking. What I'm asking is the situation right now, when we write December 2007. That's the situation I'm starting from today, and then I just have to be allowed to repeat the question. I recommend that the Council of State either answer yes, that it is scientifically sound to shut down the CRC system – and then I would like to have a reason – or no, and then I don't need any justification. I just want to repeat the question to the Council of State: Is it professionally sound to shut down the CRC system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e733	In his proposal for a Defence Study 07, the Chief of Defense has recommended a different way of solving this than that of the two bases of Sørreisa and Mågerø today. These are proposals that we will go through in depth. I can't come here and now make a yes or no answer to it. We're in a process and we're going to include this in the long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e738	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's the defense minister I'm asking the question to, not the defense chief. I just find that the Council of State does not have a professional basis to answer either yes or no to the question. I think that is quite strange, because it must be completely possible to ask questions of a defence-related nature in the Storting before we get the so-called long-term proposition. So that's the situation now, and as the Minister of Defence only stresses, everything has to stay calm. You don't have to have any opinions about the structure of the defense. I think that's weird. I want to challenge the Minister of Defence once again to make a concrete assessment of the CRC system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e745	As of today, there are two bases, Mågerø and Sørreisa. The Defence Manager has proposed to change this to one place and add it to Retan. I have to deal with the fact that the head of defence thinks this is a perfectly sound proposal. So we're going to make our assessment of this. We're in that process. It's per. at present a fully acceptable solution, but the head of defence is enough of the opinion that there will still be a fully acceptable solution on Retan. I have said that we will come back to this in connection with the long-term plan, which will be put before the Storting before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e754	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following question: ‘The size decided in 2003 to invest 5 billion. krones in new MTB vessels adapted to the current safety situation. Norway needs a strong maritime defence system capable of carrying out a wide range of defence tasks, as well as environmental and economic interests. The proposal to scrape Skold class will weaken the Marine greatly and has created uncertainty as to whether the Maritime Defense could have sufficient presence in both the north and the south. Does the Council not see that the situation around the MTBs should be clarified immediately?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e763	I agree with Mr Hansen that it is important that Norway has a strong maritime defence. As I have just explained in the reply to the representative of Korsberg, the Government will present, before Easter, proposals for a new long-term plan. The question of future use of the shield class MTBs cannot be seen detached from the overall structure, which will be addressed in the context of the new long-term proposition. It would not be appropriate to draw out one capacity and say what it will be like in the future in relation to the other proposals available from the Defence Policy Survey and from the Defence Study. So I don't see it as appropriate to go into individual matters at the moment, until there are thorough assessments, and before we put this proposition ahead of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e772	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which may not have been so surprising, and I would like to say that I have a great understanding that the defence needs to be transformed in order to solve its tasks in the future. But this is a proposal that has created shock waves inside the Maritime Defense. It is alarming that both the Defence Chief and the Defence Policy Committee make a recommendation that is so much contrary to the professional judgements made by many in the Maritime Defence Department. Håkon Tronstad, the flag commander and the head of the Coast Guard, said to the Official Journal of Bergen on 13 December that the consequence of removing the MTBs is a marine that may not be present both north and south. If this proposal for the closure of the MTBs is adopted, we will have a fleet of only 19 vessels, five frigates, six submarines, two miners and two logistic vessels. It's weak for a coastal nation. Does not the Council of State see that this proposal leads to a severely weakened marine, and that it sends a very negative signal into the Maritime Defense? The matter needs a rapid political clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e781	I can see that there are many of the proposals that have been made in the Defence Study, from which it would be desirable for too many people around locally to have a quick clarification. Equally full, we have to have a real and a complete process. Here I would also like to point out what has been the point both from the Defence Commissioner and from the Defence Policy Committee, that there might be other capacities that can do the job that these MTBs would do. It is a point of view that I have not concluded, and that the government has not taken a decision on either. That's why this is going to be treated as part of the long-term proposition. It's enough that everyone has to deal with us having to see the defense together before we can make the final assessment and say what capacities we're going to recommend for the future, and which bases and camps we're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e790	This is a very special case. It's only been four years since the Storting decided to build the Skold class for 5 billion kroner. This is a modern, heavily equipped warship with a top speed of 60 knots. The shield class is significantly larger than the current MTB fleet and adapted to future challenges. They are mobile, and they may also be present in an area over a longer period of time. We see in these days many signs of increased activity and presence from the Russian Navy. Our neighbour has a better economy, one is more confident and more active in the marine areas. So this is a discussion of operating costs of about 200 million. kr set up for an investment of DKK 5 billion, made by Stortinget four years ago. The operating costs are approx. 0.5 pst. by the entire defence budget. It doesn't make sense to scrape an investment of $5 billion to save 200 million. kr in operation? And what is the reason why the Workers' Party is so powerful in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e799	Now, the representative is once again trying to address the facts of the matter. I have said that I want to see this comprehensively, also on the basis of the recommendations available. I would like to point out that the Defence Policy Selection, which is a selection of representatives of all the political parties on the Stortinget, also the Right, would not go against the Defence Manager's recommendation when it came to the MTBs. Similarly, I say that it is important that we go through this and look at it completely again. That process is in progress. The matter is put before the Storting before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e811	So we go to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e818	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘Gross tax fraud reported by the tax authorities is not punishable because the police have no capacity, says the director of the Oslo Equation Office in a newspaper release in November. This may mean that serious infringements do not result in any penalty or prosecution. What action will the Council of State take in its responsibility to ensure that the poor manning situation in the police does not mean that very many avoid serious tax fraud without consequences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e827	The tax administration reports cases to the police on the basis of its notification instructions. It is true that in some police districts, and in particular in Oslo, there are capacity problems associated with criminal prosecution of that part of the case which should have ideally been reported from the tax office according to the instructions, and that therefore the number of notifications is somewhat limited. The tax administration does not consider it useful to produce reports that cannot be expected to be investigated by the police. Instead, the department concentrates its reporting practices on the most serious and punishable cases in such cases. I understand that the tax rate considers it necessary to set it up this way, but of course it would have been desirable to have more research capacity and reporting volume, so that the applicable notification instructions for the State had been followed more consistently. In recent years, the Tax Directorate has set up five tax crime units operating in the area of serious and widespread tax crime. Specialisation and administration of, inter alia: investigation competence has strengthened the capacity of the establishment to detect and pursue such cases. It's set at 10 million. kr in earmarked funds for the extension of the police aid auditor’s scheme. The reason for this is that a desire to ensure a more effective criminal prosecution of tax matters by providing audit, accounting and tax jurisdictions in the police districts. Furthermore, in 2005, the National Attorney General, the Police Director, the Head of Ecocrim and the Tax Director concluded a cooperation agreement containing principles for appropriate forms of cooperation between police/prosecution authorities and the tax administration. The agreement regulates cooperation at both central and regional/local level. Cooperation, particularly at regional/local level, includes, inter alia: assessments of which cases should be prosecuted by the police. The extension of the cooperation agreement also developed a separate ‘Instructions for operational cooperation between police/enforcement authorities and the tax haven’, which was launched from February 2007. The purpose of the instructions is to further develop cooperation between the agencies in order to ensure effective and good handling of cases where criminal proceedings are used as an instrument. In the operational cooperation between the departments, these instructions shall be followed. This does not mean that there is a zero response in the unannounced cases. Today, additional taxes may be imposed by up to 30 pst. if the case is also prosecuted, and up to 60 pst. when there is no criminal prosecution. In Oslo, roughly 60 pst is used. additional tax on unannounced cases, in order to contribute to a significant overall response to identified tax evasions in these cases. 60 pst. additional taxes may also be combined with the reporting and tax follow-up of the accounting failures that are often behind tax evasion. The lack of accounting can be severalfold easier to prosecute, so that police capacity problems do not apply to the same extent as in some tax evasion issues. The government wants to strengthen its efforts against economic crime, and not least against tax evasion. Questions about the resources for such efforts must also be dealt with in the budget in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e840	I thank you for your answer. Yes, I know that a lot of resources are deployed and a lot is also done in the organisational context. For its part, the right has also granted more to this area. What the question really is about is the fact that if you don't impose additional taxes, but send them to the report, you can risk, if the police don't follow up, that they don't get any response at all. And this is the state council at the end of its answer here, that one should have an eye on the load in the police, so that on the one hand one uses additional taxes, while on the other hand one finds a different basis for the notification. That's how I understand you might want to deal with it, but doesn't the Council of State think it might be necessary to go into this even a little bit more, so that no one falls between you and escapes completely?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e845	It is a very important question that the representative Fleet addresses, both because we know that tax evasion is a major economic problem – it is money that should otherwise have been paid into the community – and also because it has to do with the general respect for paying taxes, and especially among ordinary employees and small businesses, if one sees that tax evasions of a significant amount are not dropped. Therefore, this is a high priority case for the tax rate. We are now also implementing the ROS project, which can release capacity in the tax haven to strengthen work on this. Then, as described in the answer, it is of course so that the tax rate prioritizes the matters that are the most serious in terms of which ones are passed on to the police, but also then uses the penal tax of 60 pst. on the matters you can't count on the police being ready to go into. So I think we have a good system for this. But I am very pleased with the commitment of the fleet's representative and take it into account in the internal budgetary negotiations in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e850	I think it is good that the Council of State is concerned about this. I've taken this up from three different angles this fall. One angle is the one on the question that I address to the Council of State today, that is, if you fall completely out of the penalty if this goes to the notification. Another angle I picked up earlier was the role of the media in e.g. bookshelf. We had a case here in Oslo. The third angle was the opinion of the Council of State at a seminar on the publication of the names of those added to the premium tax at the high levels. This is seen from different angles, but overall I think it might suggest that this area of extra tax, a maybe a little unknown and not so very interesting area for us politicians, should be explored to make sure that it works well for all those involved – that is, that the state gets its reactions, but that it also takes account of the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e855	It's very important to have a lot of angles, like the fleet's representative, in relation to how to combat tax evasion. Now we have not concluded in the issue of the publication of criminal taxes, but it has been said, especially from those who work on the really big tax evasions, that the burden on tax evasions can be as great by publishing as with the actual criminal tax. That is why there is an issue that is being considered, but it is a delicate issue, which also limits privacy. I have a strong commitment in this field and am going to follow these matters carefully. I am also going to make sure that the Tax Agency has the resources and competence to do an important job. If the President allows, I would like to wish the representative Fleet a really good Christmas and a good new year. We have weekly meeting meetings in all the public in the Questionnaire, and I look forward to that in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e862	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e871	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘In the analysis by the Statistical Centre, the EEA 6/2007 states ‘from an allocation point of view, it is important to take into account the indirect effects of tax changes. [[SSB]] Tax reliefs at lower income levels may, for example, be motivated by a desire to stimulate increased professional activity in order to increase the income of persons in the lower distribution of income.» Is the Council of State in agreement with the SSB, and will the Council of State, like the Right, use the tax system to stimulate people to work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e880	The government is concerned that it will pay off to work. The strong growth in the economy we've had in recent years has given the strongest growth in employment ever recorded. This development is very joyous. Continued high employment is a very important goal for us. At the same time, we see that large groups are still out of work, and we know that a good part of them want to work. The good situation in the labour market gives us a unique opportunity to include even more people in the labour market. More work is a prerequisite for society to manage the tasks that the Government has set itself as a goal. In order to achieve this, the Government sees a wide range of instruments, including fiscal policies. The government's tax policy objectives are to secure income for the community, contribute to fair distribution and a better environment, promote employment throughout the country and improve the functioning of the economy. At the same time, it is also important to ensure that incentives to work collectively are good. Reduced taxes on medium and low labour income are one of several instruments to contribute to the inclusion of more people in the labour market. Research, including: made by the SSB in that Article to which the representative refers, and partly financed by the Ministry of Finance, shows that there are in particular these groups where changes in taxes may affect the supply of work. This government has therefore proposed a number of reliefs to medium and low labour incomes during this period. A total of over 2 billion DKK of increased minimum deductions in 2006 and 2007. This is also in line with the Government's objective of a fairer tax system. However, it is important to be aware that tax policy is only one of many factors affecting the supply of work. Therefore, if one is concerned with stimulating increased professional activity, one cannot unilaterally focus on the tax system. The arrangement of different social insurance schemes is a very important factor. The government has, among other things: present a separate communication on work, welfare and inclusion, one of the main objectives of which is to get more from different social security schemes into work. The new qualification programme is an important measure to ensure this. Furthermore, different public services are also important for the provision of employment. In particular, full childcare coverage and a low parental benefit in kindergartens will help more people to participate in the labour market. It shows that the Government has a strong focus on many different proposals and measures to stimulate work, including taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e895	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Right-hand shares the Government's view that the labour force is our most important resource, and we rejoice with the Council of State over the strong growth in employment we have. Nevertheless, too many people are outside the labour market. The main challenge for next year is precisely the increasing labour shortage. Then it is problematic when we see that the red-greens in the 2007 budget broke their promise to protect ordinary revenues for top taxes, where 65,000 new employees received top taxes. The red-green increase in housing taxes and the tax on private capital did not, however, increase the minimum deduction for lower and medium incomes in addition to the inflation adjustment. In other words, no incentive for work. Will the Council of State establish the principle that work should always be more profitable than in social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e904	There may well be certain groups in the social security system who, by taking certain types of jobs, do not receive an income from an alternative job that can match the benefits they otherwise have. It is important to focus on this, but it is also important to focus on good living conditions for those who do not enter the labour market. The main changes in the tax system for next year are the changes we have made in property taxes, with significant increases at the top and bottom. It will have no special impact on the job offer. But our focus is on the lowest income. There we have made changes, and we focus on that for the next year's budget as well. But it is important to note that the high-wage groups that have been the top-priorities from the Right when the Right has prioritised their tax credits are very little affected in terms of labour supply, by tax credits. Both for good distribution and good reasons for providing more labour, we concentrate the tax burden on the lowest income.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e911	The right has a comprehensive strategy to increase the supply of labour. We want more from social security to work. It must pay off to work, and we must much more strongly counteract exclusion from the labour market and facilitate a new chance for those who need it. We need to increase labour migration. It must pay off to be longer at work. It is therefore also strange to see what the Government is doing in relation to the 67-year-olds in terms of curtailment of pensions, but not for the 68- and 69-year-olds. We need to resume the modernisation of the public sector. Do the Councils have a similar strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e916	In the context of the 2008 State Budget, the Government has presented such a strategy, with many measures. Among other things, we are working to ensure that people who are out of work can fit into the workforce. A large number of employers should now take the opportunity to recruit groups that they have not previously seen as interesting workers. It could be young deformities, it could be people with a minority background. Here we know that there are competences and resources that are not being exploited. In addition, we have made various simplifications for foreign labour coming to Norway, for example. from the new Member States of the European Union. We're going to have a focus on this, too, when we add the whole economic policy to the budget for next year. I fully agree with the representative of Skovholt Gitmark. In two years we have increased the workforce by 150 000 people. There are as many people as live in Tromsø and Fredrikstad together, and many more than we thought it was possible to mobilize for the labour market. But we still have challenges for next year, because we lack capacity in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e929	This question, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e932	‘The Government has announced new negotiations with Sweden on green certificates. In the past, there has been disagreement about the role of small power in a green certification market. Sweden included hydropower over 1,5 MW, while the Soria Moria declaration excludes all small power over 1 MW from a certification system. Can the Government clarify the role of small power plants in the new round of negotiations and can the Council of State ensure that Norway wants small power plants into a system of green certificates?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e939	The government's policy for the development of small-scale power plants is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. We want to exploit the potential that lies in, among other things. construction of small, mini and micro power plants to a greater extent. Small-scale power plants are also part of the new renewable electricity support scheme. Electricity produced by the first 3 MW installed power in new hydropower plants will come under that scheme. There are many issues that need to be clarified in the discussions with the Swedish authorities about green certificates. The new EU Renewable Energy Directive, which is planned to be presented at the end of January, may also provide guidance for those calls. The technologies to be included in any single certification market are one of the issues that need to be addressed. However, the small power plant policy of the government is clear. We want to exploit the potential that lies here. In the discussions with Sweden, it would be natural for us to take on the existing policy for small-scale power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e948	This was a nice greeting to small power plants in general, but one knows how the government treated the small power plants in the state budget. They got a tax increase. The reason why the question is still relevant, and which requires clarification, is that the Soria Moria Declaration, to which the Council of States referred, states: «The government will introduce a mandatory green certificate market for new renewable energy and mini- and micro-power plants.» So it's not "small-power plants". This was the theme in Stavanger Aftenblad on 15 October 2005. Hallgeir Langeland said that the ironing of "small force" was conscious. And the current state councillor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said that the centre party had got its way, "small power" would be there. Thus, it is understood that the Soria Moria declaration deliberately omits small power plants from a green licence market. Can I still understand the Council of States so that the Soria Moria declaration does not apply, and that one will still try to bring small power plants into a green certification market?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e958	As far as the general framework for small power plants is concerned, I believe that the representative Solvik-Olsen is also aware that we have a major ongoing review based on the financial situation, which was issued in Stortinget for a short time. With regard to the specific negotiations with the Swedish authorities, I am asking for an understanding that it is going to go into the details of how those negotiations will proceed, and could also forge a possible solution, either desirable or possible, since one is thus in an initial phase here. From Norway, however, it is of course an objective to build on the policy that applies to small-scale power plants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e965	I have a great understanding that one will not publish things from the negotiations, and I respect that, but it should nevertheless be very easy, I think, to say what kind of starting point the government has in the case of small power plants. I hear what the Government says about small power, and I record what they're doing – that's not always the match – but I also record that in what's the starting point of the government, the Soria Moria statement, you say that small power plants should not be part of a green certificate system. Now, the government has modified the Soria Moria statement several times – they would like to have come with a revised anniversary edition now that they are halfway – but it would still be good to get a clearer answer as to whether it is primarily desirable for small power plants to be part of a green certificate market. Or is there one on the Soria Moria Declaration, which Hallgeir Langeland said deliberately removed "small power" from the wording?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e974	I am somewhat uncertain whether even a revised edition of Soria Moria would fall into the taste of the representative Solvik-Olsen. I think we have a little different approaches to important policy issues. I have nothing more to add when it comes to the negotiations on green certificates. We're in an initial phase. We want to implement as much as possible of what is in force in Norway for small power plants, and that is, among other things. mentioned in St.meld. No 11 for 2006-2007, with which the Stortinget is well known.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e993	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1007	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1014	This question, from the representative of Vera Lyskleat to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1017	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘StatoilHydros installations on Melkoya have emissions of CO2 far beyond what was foreseen and for which a permit has been granted. The site has a dedicated area for a CO2 treatment plant. Will the State Council initiate cooperation between the State and StatoilHydro in order to clean the CO2 emissions from the Melkøya plant?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1035	StatoilHydro is authorised in the emissions permit of the LNG installation on Melkoya to allow emissions to exceed the permitted permit limits during the start-up phase. This permit is granted subject to the environmentally sound operation of the installation. There are two main sources of CO2 emissions in Melkoya. Firstly, there is CO2 in the gas stream from the Snow White field. This CO2 we know is being removed in an already built amine plant, and then reinjected in the Tubia formation. There's a CO2 handling. It is a solution similar to that chosen by StatoilHydro on Sleipner, where CO2 from the gas extracted has been separated and stored in a geological formation on the seabed. We have now actually done this for ten years. The second source of CO2 emissions on Melkøya comes from the flue gas to the energy plant. I must say that I find it sad that the Bondevik II government – a government of which the Left was part – set in motion the Melkøya plant without CO2 cleaning. That shouldn't have been done. The plant will release 1 million tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere every year – ten times more than the emissions we're talking about from the testing centre in Mongstad, which I've found that the left has risen significantly over, yesterday at the latest. As you can see, there is good reason to ask some questions about the context of the policy right here. It's true, as the representative says, that there is an area set for CO2 treatment plants in Melkøya. Any facility located on this site will require an equivalent solution to that under Kårstø and Mongstad planning. The capture and storage of CO2 – CCS as it is called – is still at the technology development stage. Unfortunately, technology is still immature, and it is precious. Globally, there is still little practical experience in capturing CO2 from power generation. The Mongstad and Kårstø projects will and will change this. The Mongstad project is a pilot project in which several CCS technologies will be tested. Kårstø will scale up the technology by a factor of ten. With the construction of CO2 capture installations on Kårstø and Mongstad, the Government will make an important contribution to further developing knowledge of CO2 capture and scaling up this type of technology. Both in total and separately, these projects will help to reduce the costs associated with the capture and storage of CO2. The aim is to reduce the cost of carbon capture and storage so that it can be put into use when deploying all new power plants and connecting to existing power plants, both nationally and internationally. It is also important to gain experience and knowledge from the ongoing projects. The Kårstø and Mongstad projects have made it clear that the capture and storage of CO2 is a very costly measure. Whether and when to enter into new similar projects must be carefully considered. I therefore believe that we should gain experience from Mongstad and Kårstø before the state could possibly enter into other major and demanding projects, such as the power plant on Melkøya.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1095	I thank you for the answer, but in fact it was so that it was the Workers' Party and the Stoltenberg I-government that in its time had the direction and was the driver to get Snow White realized, with the frames that are there today. Today’s government has submitted to record high emissions of greenhouse gases at the Snow White Facility by granting an extended emission permit from 15000 to 200000 tonnes of CO2. Did the Government consider initiating cooperation on CO2 clean-up in relation to the treatment of the extended emissions permit? And if so, what was the reason for not going on that track?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1108	Firstly, I think it is important to point out that what is now done in relation to CO2 capture, and what is done around limiting CO2 emissions to the atmosphere, is on a historical level. The grips that the Government has taken — and that make the processes now going — are quite different from what we've ever been to in Norway. We could of course have started with long-drawn investigations and done a lot of work that would give us some answers in a long time. We've chosen to raise the list. We've chosen to say that we're going to put in good installations to capture and reinject CO2, but at the same time it means that there are demanding processes we're in the middle of. With regard to the concrete situation around the Melkoya plant, there is some emissions due to flares. There have been some challenges, problems related to the start-up of the installation, with emissions related to it. It is a consequence of the permits previously granted and is a consequence of the actual production of that installation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1124	Thank you also for this answer. In Hammerfest, Hammerfest Energi has already developed a very exciting gas power plant with CO2 handling. They are now working to obtain a concession for this plant, which may be in operation in 2010. NVE rejected the application in July. It was then anchored and is now being treated in the department. When will there be an answer to this anchor, after the Workers' Party's Tore Nordtun was in Hammerfest a few days before the election in the autumn and stated that Hammerfest Energy will be granted a concession to this CO2-free gas power plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1139	I cannot give an exact answer to this case in Stortinget today. What is important, however, is that the kind of development that the representative here refers to, which is exactly what we need. We need good projects, we need innovation related to professional environments, technology environments, which can actually go those processes further. We have now invested a lot of resources on the Mongstad project from the Government. That doesn't mean that what's happening elsewhere is negative. On the contrary, we need both concrete suggestions for solutions and input around it. In general, it is very good that we are working on proposals for CO2 solutions in the different disciplines. Specifically in relation to the individual case, as I have mentioned, I cannot give an exact answer to this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1153	This question, too, from the representative of Tord Lien to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1156	My question is: ‘According to the Address Paper on 7 December, LO’s leader, Roar Flåthen, at the December conference in Kristiansund, on Thursday 6 December, states that ‘Only an expansion of gas power stations in Fräna, Tjeldbergodden and Skogn can give Middle Norway the opportunity to become self-sufficient in energy’. The Minister of Oil and Energy has stated that a new gas power plant in Central Norway will have CO2 management from day 1 onwards and that the State will not contribute to the supply of gas. With these assumptions, how early is it realistic that a gas power plant can be completed in Central Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1168	The government takes the vulnerability of the Norwegian power supply seriously and has worked actively in this area since its accession. A lot of work has been done. Several concessions have been granted for both gas power and hydropower projects. At the same time, the 2008 budget for energy efficiency, heat and electricity from renewable energy sources is substantially increased. These are important contributions to improving the overall power balance, including in central Norway. The Government’s plan to strengthen the power situation in Central Norway is based on measures for increased transmission capacity, increased investment in energy conversion and new production, as well as other measures to ensure security of supply in Central Norway The government is working to optimise the conditions for the realisation of new gas power projects, for which the representative is involved. As regards CO2 management, the Government’s view of this is clearly set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. It says: ‘By means of economic instruments and by investing in new technologies, we will ensure that new gas power concessions are based on CO2 removal.’ In the case of granted concessions, it is also based on the Soria Moria Declaration that the Government will cooperate with the gas power builders on CO2 capture installations and contribute financially to its implementation as soon as possible. Several different plans have been presented for several gas power projects in Central Norway. The oil and energy minister has recently held meetings with all the relevant developers in the region to get an updated review of the status and potential of the projects. The review shows that there is a good basis for establishing production capacity in the region. At the same time, there are challenges related to the realisation of all the projects, and further work needs to be done. The Minister for Oil and Energy puts forward a close dialogue with the actors in this work. For the situation in Central Norway, it is also important to give equal attention to the work on new transmission capacity and other relevant projects that will help to strengthen the power situation in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1190	I note that the emphasis is on transfer capacity, and then you move the problem from Tøndelag to Helgeland and to Bergen. There is no solution to the problem. The solution has been presented by Prime Minister Stoltenberg on 2 May 2006 when he promised gas power plants in Forest. The centre party’s own Ola Borten Moe, then an energy policy spokesman, today the head of the nutrition committee, says in November 2006 that ‘The centre party promises gas power plants in central Norway. And it's going to happen very soon». Now I noticed that the Council of State in its response would not have fixed a likely date for the implementation of the gas power project. I also note that the Council of State does not support either its own Prime Minister, who has said that we are organising gas power plants in Forest, or the head of the nutrition committee, Ola Borten Moe, for gas power plants to come in mid-Norway. It's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1199	It could be tempting to read a little bit from the answer I just gave, because there it was clearly pointed out from my side that it is desirable to get gas power projects to stand up, and that there is one of several solutions to the energy situation and the challenges around it in Middle Norway. So it would be irresponsible for the government not to work with more solutions around the energy situation in Middle Norway. As the representative Lien also knows, it has been such extensive processes around the projects that have been launched, and as it is working on, that not having other reasoning, other solutions, including in the energy situation, will not be responsible policies. Therefore, the work done in relation to network investments is important, whether it is linked to extensions made by Hydro in the Sunndalsøra, related to the Worm Lange projects, or to what Statnett has done around stress support, and also [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1204	If the industry in More and Romesdal and Trøndelag had been able to live on good wishes from the Government, this would not have been a problem. What you need is power, and the only thing that can provide enough power is gas power plants. Everybody knows this. LO knows that, the Workers' Party knows that, the Center Party knows that. The industry and trade unions in central Norway know that this is what is going on. A beautiful spring day, the facts must also go up for those who are going to make the decisions. The government is also talking about industrial power regimes. Then you have to understand that it may not have been as easy as the Workers' Party and the Centre's party stated in the 2005 election campaign. However, it is likely and possible to implement the industrial power regime in Norway with the power situation we have in Central Norway per year. Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1211	The relationship to industrial power, I think, we're going to lie in this context, and then I'm going to try to focus on what was the representative's original question, related to energy supplies towards Middle Norway. To repeat what I said initially: I, and we, want gas power plants and gas power projects to rise and stand in mid-Norway. It'll be a good solution if you also handle the capture of CO2. Then one of these facilities has been granted a concession, but we still see that it takes time to realize a project that has been at the planning stage. And then I think it would be irresponsible if you didn't go along with what's happening on the supply side, also focusing on overcapacity, on renewable energy, and on getting energy into the market other than that that unilaterally goes into gasworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1221	We go to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1228	‘Melk production is the most permeable sector of agriculture. Each producer operates its production under the quota system. This system of allowances has not changed since the 1990s. Many farmers have bought more milk quota, but at the same time we see the dairy sector struggling to get enough milk to cover our consumption. At the same time, demand for milk is increasing internationally. Will the Council consider allocating milk quotas for the re-establishment of milk production in order to ensure access to milk on the market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1235	I would first like to point out that there is already the possibility of new start-ups in milk production. The legislation, then called the Regulation on the milk quota system, allows new entrants to purchase milk quotas from the country in line with others. However, such sales can only take place in counties where an offer profit from the purchase and sale of the allowance is set aside. The background to the marketing of milk quotas only within the county or marketing region is the objective of maintaining production in all parts of the country. There is a broad consensus in the UK that the agricultural policy objective of spread production across the country is important, including: to maintain the values of the cultural landscape. In this year's agricultural settlement, the priority profile of districts and structures was stronger than, among other things, that of agriculture. The left did when they were in government, it was just to ensure this production distribution. Nor is it right, as the representative of Skkelstad claims, that we are struggling to obtain enough milk for our own consumption. In order to meet the need for a certain build-up of stocks of cheeses, an increase in production through the exemption from overproduction fees was provided earlier in the autumn. This has led to Tine getting in now approx. 45 million litres of milk, as they have said they need, in addition to the forecast for the 2007/2008 quota year. As of today, therefore, there is no shortage of milk and, in isolation, there is no particular need for new start-ups to increase milk production. I assume that there is still a need for this quota system for milk. I would like to remind the representative of Skelstad that we also have different methods of increasing production under this scheme. First of all, this is done by increasing the ratio of the allowance scheme, i.e. that all producers of allowances are allowed to increase their output by the same percentage. In this way, all producers across the country are given the same opportunity to increase their output. Another measure used in specific cases is to provide temporary exemptions from the overproduction tax, as was done for the quota year in which we are now living. There was also free milk production in the first two months of this year, with which the representative is well known. Manufacturers will then be able to produce beyond the quota, without any over-production charge being levied. Another specific measure is to sell new allowances from the country to those already holding an allowance. It has, among other things, have been used to increase the production of organic milk. An evaluation of the milk quota turnover scheme was carried out earlier this year together with the Norwegian Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams. The point is that the milk market is the largest and the most important market in agriculture. I therefore have a continuous focus on possible improvements within the mechanisms that regulate this market. Towards the 2008 agricultural settlement, these questions will be something I particularly consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1254	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that there is an opportunity to purchase milk quotas in the context of the regulation mentioned by the minister. But there is no doubt that in 1997, when we had the first declines, it was mainly those who had a production of less than 30,000 litres that sold. And then we got a development of 40,000-60,000, and now it's between 60,000 and 80,000 liters. Quotas are a production regulatory instrument, and we agree with that. We also agree that we should have quotas to some extent, but I miss something in the response from the Council of State: we have to look ahead – we see that there is a development in both labour and the flexibility of adaptability. Does the Council see other forms of adjustment, where we have to have other instruments, when we come into a new era?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1263	I agree with the representative of Skelstad that it is important to look at the need for possible changes as the framework around – in this case – milk production changes. From this point of view, I believe that that entry is most relevant, just as I believe that the claim that we currently do not have enough milk is not relevant, because we are dealing with issues related to milk deliveries in Norway now. But that does not mean that we are going to have a static thinking about how the quota system is working. As I mentioned before, a comprehensive work was done in a report – a work that was completed in March this year. There are many interesting assessments of the changes that can be made within the milk scheme. As I also said in my previous answer, I want to be concerned about seeing possible changes and to what extent it can lead to improvements to this regime in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1272	I thank you for this answer, which I see to a greater extent as positive. One could have been afraid of what the Farmer in many ways stood for in 2002 — they saw it as a static dimension, which had to be first and foremost put up for the primary use of available capacity in existing milk production. Here I think maybe a new time is pressing forward -- here we're a little bit on hell. We see, for example: not all available milk quotas were sold to private this year in the Trøndelag region. This indicates that we might have a saturation. And after what I hear, many are also on their way out of the next year. This is when I see it more clearly: Is the Council willing to look at the distance rules in relation to co-operation, and not least at how long they must have run their own production to enter into co-operation – which would greatly alleviate the investment needs of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1279	Without prejudice to the fact that I do not remember exactly what I recently read in the statistics of the State Agriculture Administration relating to the sale and purchase of allowances in the various counties, I believe that the Nord-Trøndelag was relatively high on the statistics regarding the desire to purchase quotas in connection with the state supply of milk quotas. So it's quite obvious that there are more people who want to expand production in the North Trøndelag than what is currently possible based on the milk quota scheme. This suggests that there is also a young offensive farmer in the north of Trondelag who sees a future in milk production. That's good, because those people, those farmers, we need to move forward. There is now a manifest difference in relation to some years back in terms of capacity utilisation in individual poultry. Until a few years ago, there were very many poultry around Norway that went too close to half of the machine, as a result of the introduction of the quota system in the past. Now a lot of the frogs have increased production a bit. This means that the issues to be considered in this context should be assessed at a slightly different level from those addressed five to ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1286	So we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1298	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1305	‘Minister of State for Economic Affairs and Regional Affairs Haga promised in the election campaign that tax-intensive municipalities would not lose out on the conversion of the income system, because the lifting of the tax-weaks would be covered by fresh money. She also promised that the normal municipalities would not lose out on a priority for growth and relocation municipalities for the same reason. Are the promises at hand?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1312	Let me first say that Regeringen has strengthened the municipal economy in recent years. This was absolutely necessary after several years with a tight municipal budget. It has benefited all the municipalities. The Ministry is now working on a new income system for municipalities. We want to make a proposal in the municipal proposition for spring. In this work, it is important to focus on, among other things, municipalities with strong population growth, municipalities with strong dislocation and some large cities with special challenges. All changes in the income system – within the same budget framework – will result in some municipalities losing, while others will win. The government suggests that there will still be an increase in the free income of the years to come. This will increase the free income of most municipalities in 2009 and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1321	In this case, the government will break the tradition, for both in 2007 and 2008 there has been a reduction in free revenues. The former municipal minister said that the extra money for the poor municipalities would come from the state treasury. This must mean that, overall, the growth of municipal income in 2009 must be such that the tax-based municipalities receive relatively the same growth as all other municipalities, but do not lose weight on the conversion. However, the question to the Council of State was not about getting an account of the development of the municipalities' economy, but about whether, as a new municipal minister, she was behind the two promises made by the previous municipal minister, both in terms of the tax-intensive municipalities and in terms of the municipalities which have normal population development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1330	Not least with the cost growth we are currently seeing in the municipalities, it will be important to secure the municipalities more resources. Now, the income system, as the Sørheim Selection estimates, is out of hearing, with a deadline of 28 January. The Ministry shall then also review the page entitled Expense Smoothing, Cost Keys. My goal is to provide an income system that is fairer than today. Of course, it is also my goal that no municipalities should lose on this. The representative Höie has so long seagoing time here that he knows that the municipal minister cannot promise in December what the municipal proposition will look like in detail in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1337	It's my long speed here that makes me ask, now that the election campaign is over, whether the municipal minister is behind the promises made by the municipal minister in the election campaign, not least since we've got a new municipal minister from the same party. The two answers we have now received indicate that the new municipal minister has not intended to support the promises made by the previous municipal minister in a municipal election campaign. Several municipalities then faced a situation where the majority of a sample, consisting of government parties, were in favour of changes in the income system that would lead to income reductions in the centenary-dollar class. It may not be seen as a more equitable income system for the inhabitants of those municipalities. These are municipalities which in these days make reductions in their budgets as a result of today's income system. Will the Minister of State repeat the promises, or will she not repeat the promises made by her predecessor?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1346	Let me say that I, of course, share Åslaug Haga's assessments in this matter. Let me also say that I am deeply disagreed in the representative Höie's production when it relates to the reduction of the free revenues in the last two years. It has to do with counting the VAT growth. In addition, let me stress that today the country has a government that is currently busy securing an equivalent offer across the country. It means that today's government has a completely different note against the municipal sector and what it's going to do to secure this supply, than the Bondevik II government had – a government where the right had the municipal minister, and where the focus was on tax relief in front of the community. So the final answer when it comes to the income system is in the municipal proposition in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1355	Questions 10 and 11 have already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1362	I have the following questions: ‘For a number of small and large transport projects, tenders are now much higher than the client’s own estimate. Many conditions may affect the price, not least the project base. External quality assurance has repeatedly demonstrated the need to improve the own cost estimates of the road network. What measures will the State Council implement to improve the project base and cost estimates of projects in order to reduce the possibility of a cost cut when new projects are announced on the market?»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1369	The market situation in 2007 has been particularly impenetrable, both in terms of interest from contractors to participate in supply competitions and in terms of price levels of supply. The reasons for this are several, but there seem to be two main factors that have worked. One is a huge increase in the cost of inputs such as goods and wages. The second is that the construction market has our labyrinth and its overheating. The final relationship has emerged from the fact that there has been little interest and supply in individual competitions and higher prices than the increase in the price of the inputs should be seen in isolation. Entrepreneurs' interest has been the lowest and highest on larger and complex projects. The railway system and the state road system are particularly concerned about the problem. I would like to point out here that according to this, the State Road Service has seen several measures, including: There will be a review of cost estimates for a number of projects. Training will be carried out for personnel responsible for renting the process of producing cost estimates.The level of detail of cost estimates will be strengthened. This means that an attempt to facilitate the participation of both large and international companies and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in supply competitions for road construction tasks to a greater extent than at present. A process management system has been developed in the State Road Administration linked to the main process of ‘Implementation of development project’. This will be an important contribution to good project management. Furthermore, a cost bank has been established to provide a better basis for the preparation of cost estimates based on experience prices. A project database has been developed to provide better opportunities for providing the market situation. In addition, the State Road Administration Handbook 151 ‘Management of investment, operational and maintenance projects’ is revised and is soon ready for deployment. This will contain more structured and specific requirements for the implementation of projects than current ones. Experience from the implementation of external quality assurance, KS2, has been an important contribution to the audit work. Good quality when it comes to the basis of competition, and clear sharing of roles and responsibilities between the builder and the contractor, is crucial in order to ensure that the work can be carried out without large additional payments. Therefore, the road system of the State is continuously developing standardised models for the development of a competitive basis and procedures for ensuring quality. Statoil, Telenor, Defence Construction, the Swedish Railway Agency and the Swedish Road Administration are taking part in the research project ‘Practical management of uncertainties’, where it includes: work is being carried out on developing uniform procedures and procedures to identify uncertainties in cost estimates. I think this would show that the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency are actively and systematically working on measures and further development of the management system, with the aim of reducing the risk of cost gaps.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1406	I thank you for your answer. One of the projects notified back to Stortinget is a new Kråkerøy link, which Stortinget treated in the spring of 2007. In the autumn of 2006, the quality assurance report on cost uncertainty stated: ‘Metier records that the Road Directorate, following repeated recommendations to implement improvements in the estimation methodology in the State Vegvesen, seems to lack the necessary understanding of the problem and has not taken the necessary action. The Ministry of Transport must ensure that procedures are in place to ensure cost estimation of projects in accordance with recognised best practice.» This should show that there is a significant potential for improvement in the state road system. The councils were within it in their answer. However, it is important to stress that an important reason why projects are now cracking on the cost side is, in fact, a poor project basis. That should be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1416	In such a case, if the representative Sortevik is to be entitled to his or her statements, it must mean that one has been given a particularly rapid reduction in quality in the state road system. In recent times, there have usually been very small deviations in cost estimates between the external consultants and the State Road Administration. It should also be noted that the consultants have done little to identify possible problems. The best example is the Ulven–Sinsen, where the consultants actually were at the base of their Vegvesen. We know how these calculations were, and what we've been doing behind it. Nor do we feel that the external consultants, who are several, have been picked out by the Ministry of Finance and disconnected from the State Road Administration, to some extent have been good at selling prices in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1423	Thank you again for your answer. In fact, the criticism presented in this project has continued in one of the last projects dealt with by the Storting, namely the toll bill on E6 from Gardermoen to Colomoen. There is repeated criticism from the quality assurance companies about the way project drivers and builders calculate and document their calculations. As I have done before in Stortinget, I finally want to refer to the hearing in connection with the 2008 Transport Budget, where the director of the Land Association of Construction provided a very clear answer – is clear yes to questions as to whether there were a lot of errors and shortcomings on the project basis for new transport projects. He confirmed that quite clearly. I am somewhat surprised that the Council of State is concerned about minimizing this, when it actually became heavy and clearly pointed out in the quality assurance of the major projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1430	The state councils are debatable from nothing. I had a long list of measures that the Council of State and the State Road Administration agree to implement in order to get even better quality assurance. It may be better, but the constant blackout and the debt that comes from the representative Sortevik against the State Road Administration cannot stand behind. The state road service has been through a great reorganization. Despite this, the services are of high quality. If the industry can have its point of view on the material being sent out, I hope they will take it up with the State Road Service, possibly with the Council of State, then we will have to go in. So far, I have not received any specific references from the industry about errors and are missing from the basis for the projects that have been sent out. I still think it is wrong to say that the main problem today is the state road system's methodology. The main problem today is a strong price increase in the market, which is based on several factors. As I said, it's a price increase that doesn't have the ability to predict the external environment either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1439	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «Newly, the winter weather creates giant problems on highway 3 in Hedmark, resulting in miles of queues, material damage and human tragedies. What can and will the Council of State do to minimise this annual problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1448	There is no first time the representative of Bredvold has asked questions about rv. Three, and probably not the last one either. I will try to answer as best I can. It is true that at several times in winter, car combinations have run off the road on rv. 3 through the Østerdalen. Thus, the road has been blocked for periods. There should be no such thing, and there are several reasons why this happens. Winter weather is a recurring fact every year in the Østerdalen, and rv. 3 is operated as a winter road. Therefore, the State Road Administration accepted that there is snow and ice cover on the road. In some places the road is narrow and curved, which makes it particularly demanding for road users when snowing or raining on the frozen roadway. In the time between autumn and winter, there are more frequent weather changes with large temperature fluctuations in a short time. The contract of the State Road Service with the contractor requires that the road be strewn within two hours when the conditions so require. I have no reason to say that this has not been done. Such requirements are designed, which means that for periods it may be smooth. This is demanding, especially for drivers who have suffered from slippery winter roads and do not take into account the difficult situations. Unfortunately, when some combinations of vehicles have poor tyre equipment, the result is that exits and hatches may occur. I would like to ask the Swedish Road Administration to follow this route extra well to ensure that the contractor delivers, as required by the contract. I would also like to ask the State Road Service to increase the checks on vehicle combinations operating on this road to stop those who do not comply with the current requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1461	I thank the Council of State for a good answer. It is true that I have had questions about this before, and I will certainly have it in the future. The reason I'm going to have it in the future is that I don't have full confidence that the road is going to be as good as it should be. When you look at what kind of path this is, you pick 90 pst. by the wagon trains Østerdalen in front of the Gudbrand valley. The size has decided to rv. 3 shall be the route of origin. For example, between 1990 and 2000, 38 people were killed along this road, and several have been killed after 2000. I had the question up on March 1st, 2006. Then, in response from the Council of State, I was told that they would use more salt. ‘to facilitate compliance with adhesion requirements. The aim of the measure is to improve road safety and to evaluate it after the season’. Where is the salting evaluation? And why don't you use more salt?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1477	Of course, the state road authorities have evaluated the experience they have gained. The reason why a no longer uses more salt has to do with our common climate – or common environment – is perhaps better to say. It is not necessarily the climate challenge, but the environment that causes the state road system to try to reduce the use of salt. While some salt is used on this road, as one has classified the road as a so-called winter road, it means that one more accepts snow and ice cover and, to a greater extent, paves the way to ensure the adhesion that will be there, according to the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1484	I thank you once again for your answer. In more media, including: in the newspaper Østlandingen on Saturday 8 December 2007, there is an article entitled ‘Shuggish driving conditions’. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘It was both poorly fractured and poorly sprinkled in the area yesterday.’ When we're not going to salt so much because of the environment, and the result is several accidents with human tragedies and people dying, at least we have to have good brewing and good bedding to reduce the number of accidents. Whether there will be accidents with material damage, or there will be accidents with human tragedies, now there will be. But when we have salt that we can't use, and we have sand that we can use – and sand is cheap – it has to be used sand, and it has to be broken in such a big and important way. When the Council of State says that she should follow with extra care, I should follow with extra care whether the Council of State is very closely following. And I hope she does.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1498	When I send my messages to the State Road Administration, I assume that they will be followed up. I also think they will be in this case. Of course, I agree with the representative, Bredvold, that it must be broken and strangled sufficiently to ensure safety on the road. In addition, it is important that the State Road Service has received a letter from the Council of State to strengthen the control of heavy vehicle combinations, to strengthen the requirements when it concerns the depth of the tyre pattern, and that the State Road Service should listen to more proposals, including: to hold back vehicle combinations, to remove vehicle combinations from the road for the risk of the owner, if one sees that they are not well enough shunted. I have also asked them to concentrate the checks on areas where there are a lot of accidents and accidents. As this turns out, I'm sure rv will. 3 be a road that should have special attention, as I also said in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1507	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘NTB reports on 13 December that in June, even more air traffic controllers will be missing than in the summer of 2006, as the lack of air traffic controllers, conflicts and disease caused major problems for air traffic. This means that travelers have to deal with new problems for the spring. President of the Norwegian Air Force Association, Rolf Skrede, says to NTB that ‘if we can’t think new, this is a situation we’ll have forever’. Does the Council share this view, and in that case what will she do?'
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1516	When we took over the government power in the fall of 2005, Avinor was marked by unrest and internal contradictions. The background was that one under the previous government had greatly underestimated the need for air traffic controllers and stopped the training of new air traffic controllers over several years. This was a situation in which I had to clean up when I took over as Minister of Transport. As you know, the Executive Director withdrew at the end of 2005 to contribute to the company's peacemaking process, and the new Executive Director increased in April 2006. In addition, I appoint a new Chairman in an extraordinary general meeting in May 2006. These measures helped to ensure that the company remained calm. The problem with the lack of air traffic controllers, however, is not something that can be solved overnight. Avinor has deployed resources to train several air traffic controllers. However, it takes time to train new air traffic controllers and certify them for the places where they will work. As long as there is a lack of air traffic controllers, Avinor is dependent on an extra effort from the air traffic controllers you have today. In this context, I would like to commend the air traffic controllers who are currently preparing the difficult manning situation of the air traffic control service. They also show great willingness to do more work, something that Avinor also depends on. However, Avinor is also aware of the negative effects of overtime use, and in this context has indicated that the company has a focus on HMS work, in particular sick absence and follow-up of other negative effects of high overtime use. According to Avinor, the need for further work will be greatest in 2008, but the situation will improve from the beginning of 2009. The manning situation of air traffic controllers per On 1 July 2007, 462 were added – i.e. not annual work, but added. The manning situation per year 1 July 2008 is expected to increase to 470. Based on these figures, Avinor does not expect major traffic disruption problems through the spring and summer of 2008 than one had in the summer of 2007. Nevertheless, it must be emphasised that there is a need for good cooperation with the air traffic controllers and their organisations in relation to the additional work needed to maintain the necessary capacity in many air traffic control units. Avinor also feels that there is currently a good dialogue between the company’s management and the air traffic controllers’ trustees and a good cooperation climate in the business. Traffic has also been relatively painless for some time in the manning situation. In order to reduce the effects of understaffing and to solve the challenges of air traffic management, priority is given to the challenge of new air traffic controllers, called Avinor. For the time being, 70-80 elephants are under challenge, and in 2008-2009 46 new air traffic controllers are expected to be certified and put into operational service. In addition, a dozen current air traffic controllers from our neighbouring countries have been recruited, and several air traffic controllers who have moved out to work as air traffic controllers in other countries have returned home. In the same period, 17 air traffic controllers will now be operational age limit, which is 60 years. Although it will be both natural and statistical departure of air traffic controllers in the future, the crew situation according to Avinor will be better year by year, so that we will have an air traffic in Norway based on normal flight leader crews in 2011. Avinor will also approach the issues of understaffing by assessing how air traffic control units are to be manned and operated. In this context, the practice of opening and closing individual sectors is central, i.e. the best possible flexibility and dynamics of the crew throughout the day. Furthermore, Avinor will look at the need for staffing to be planned on the basis of the appropriate capacity figures, possibilities for improving the efficiency of education and opportunities to reduce the use of own resources through better cooperation interfaces with Nordic service providers, so as to improve the use of resources. However, for these measures it is common that they cannot be implemented in the short term, but require distribution, preparation and thorough analysis with regard to flight safety and, in some cases, technological changes. I follow closely the developments in the manning situation of air traffic controllers, and I point out that earlier this year, Avinor was identified as a provider of air traffic services under the Single European Sky Code, ‘Single European Sky’. Avinor is given as the designated provider of such services the task of ensuring that Norway has an air traffic service with sufficient competence and capacity to meet the demand. A yearly capacity and competence plan is required. Avinor is also required to commit to a service standard after conference with the airlines. If Avinor fails to comply with the obligation of the designation decision, the Air Safety Authority may issue specific instructions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1535	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now the council has been sitting for two and a half years, and has therefore had a good opportunity to do a lot at that time. I hear here that she is getting more air traffic controllers in place, and that is of course very positive. However, it is obvious that the president of the Norwegian Air Force Leaders Association does not see this innovation that he is calling for here. Otherwise, this statement cannot be understood. Does the Council of State agree or disagree with the President of the Norwegian Air Force Association in what he says? Does he simply not see what is happening, or what the Council of State has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1546	In my time as State Council, I have had very good dialogue with Rolf Skrede and with the Air Leaders' Association. I have not had this kind of Rolf Skreed input in the dialogue we've had. I also know that the dialogue between the Avinor Association and the Avinor leadership is now of a completely different character than what he was under previous regimes. It has its sides to cut 400 million. kr. The cut that was made under the previous government has given off a lot of results in Avinor, and I have seen a escalating when it comes to air traffic controllers, but also in other areas where one after another saw that one was actually understaffed. And it takes time to come back to that standard where one should be. I wish we weren't in that situation. But when that situation has arisen, I feel that we are in good dialogue with those added to find good solutions that will give us the capacity that we need when it concerns air traffic controllers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1553	Thanks for the answer. It is now the case that thousands of innocent passengers were hit last year when the air traffic controllers reported ill, and SAS employees have also now notified that they will report sick if SAS sells part of the ground service. What does the Council of State think about the use of search reports, or threat of search reports, in the transport sector? And what means will she use to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1560	Governments have said quite clearly from a number of points of view what they think of that kind of thing. It's totally inappropriate to report as part of an action. Neither is it acceptable in any way. But the Minister of Transport has nothing to do with it here. What we have done in the past is to create a dialogue that has worked when it comes to action. When it's SAS, there's another situation. Avinor is owned by the State with the Council of State as General Assembly. SAS is a private company, and ownership is run by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so there's the Minister of Transport even less active. When illegal actions are involved, they are re-sorted under a third State Council with a view to possibly taking action if one can see that there are illegal actions. The problem with these kind of actions is that it's very difficult to go in and prove that what's being done is illegal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1571	‘Atlantic route is one of the most attractive nature-based travel destinations in Norway. Work on developing the Atlantic route that has been completely stopped by the national tourist road. It is claimed that there is an application for the establishment of windmills in the sea outside that is the cause. Does the Council agree that there is no reason to halt further development due to wind turbines plans, and what will the Council of State do to enable the work to continue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1578	The majority and the Ministry of Transport’s guidelines form the basis for the State Road Administration’s approach to tourism road traffic. I agree with the representative that the Atlantic road is really an attractive and beautiful road. The scheme is further addressed in the Project Directive on the ‘Potential Area National Tourism Roads 2002-2015’, issued by the Road Director on 26 April 2004, which has been more detailed and updated in the Project Plan 2006-2015 for the Tourism Road Project dated 1 February 2006. Through discussions with the Ministry of Transport, Vegvessenet has been given confirmation of the importance of professionally high quality and the main requirements to be met for selected tourist road sections, among others. when it relates to the quality of the natural experience. The goal of the tourist road project is to develop a total of 18 carefully selected road sections in Norway to national tourist roads by 2015. A tourist product of high international quality shall be developed where the rootstock is itself a running experience. The passers-by tourists are to be tempted with the most plentiful of Norwegian nature. Nature quality along the ‘road at sea’ is thus the basis for investing on the Atlantic route as a future national tourist road. The tourist road project places high emphasis on quality and has created a quality management board for national tourist roads to monitor that the tourist roads become a national tourist attraction that can be marketed as a trademark. The Quality Management Board discussed, with the background of plans presented for a range of coastal wind farms, the relationship between these plans and the tourist road traffic effort meeting on 14 February 2005. In the Decision, the Quality Management Board concluded that the visual consequences of the establishment of wind turbines outside the Atlantic-Marine Route – Havsul – after its view, the Bud-Kårvåg route would render it inappropriate as a future national tourist road. The board also believed that they planned the wind turbines on the inside of the road – Free Airpark – could have visual consequences that could result from the Atlantic Road’s currentity as a future tourist road. The Road Director joined the Quality Management Board’s recommendation. In a situation where there was strong doubt about the future development of the very foundation of the route’s tourist road candidate, the road director found it right to await investment in new measures along the Atlantic route. This was made known locally. The wind situation has not yet been clarified. I think the situation that has arisen for the work on the Atlantic route is unfortunate for the established local commitment and the expectations that the Tourist Road Project has built up for the effort to process the 36-kilometre stretch along the sea from Bud to Kårvåg as a future national tourist road. I would therefore like to take matters up with the State Road Administration Tourist Road Project with a view to resolving them. I must point out that it is not such that all tourist road works along the route are iced. The tourist road project completes the measures started – a viewpoint point, a couple of molo measures and a couple of parking facilities. The tourist road project has also continued the planning of new measures, so that they can be put into operation once it has been decided whether the Atlantic route will possibly retain the natural qualities that can only be achieved by a national tourist road.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1593	I thank the Council of State for the answer. If we go back in history, we see that while the Atlantic route AS as a toll company was driving the road project, there was a lot of development and marketing of the road, and the number of passengers increased for each year. It also helped to speed up the down payment of the road as a toll project. After the State Road Service took over, my claim is that the development of the marketing has stopped. I dare say that the project National Tourism Roads may have been more damaging than for the benefit of the Atlantic route as a tourism product. In my opinion, little or nothing has happened for three to four years. Windmills in the sea or not – the road is now there. The travel life product is there, but it is due. My question is: will the Council of State give clear signals that a power cap must now be taken to re-establish the maturity that has occurred?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1602	I am not sure if I understood the question quite correctly, but I hope that it is not the road that is about to fall. I'm not sure I understood that. After all, there is nothing to do, regardless of whether the road should be a tourist road or not in the future, that one should not maintain the road to the standard that he should have. The tourist road project is not linked to the maintenance on the road – the tourist road project is linked to installations along the road, where one unites architecture and art, and not least local businesses are being dragged in to bring up the activity of the provision of services to travellers along the road. So the road project itself, I hope to be kept in the same place. I have a clear intention, as I say in my main response, to have a dialogue in this matter to get her back on the rails.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1609	The Council of State clearly misunderstands the question. It's not maintenance of the road we're talking about, although it's also necessary. However, it has been promised for spring, so it will go its way. It's all in connection with the road that's stopped. There were a lot of plans going on. Business operators ready to invest in projects and products have now withdrawn and may be using funds in other areas. So it's the way that travel life product has expired, both for marketing and for development. There are great expectations to the road. As I said, it is one of Norway's most attractive travel products, and I think it is worrying that there is so little political governance with projects like this. It is perceived as bureaucratic and impracticable in terms of recordings, and I hope that the Council of State will take action and give political signal that the work must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1618	First of all, it is not correct that there is no political direction with this project. The tourist road project is actually one of the projects in which the Council of State has engaged quite so much, because I think it's what I'd call the 'rosin in sausage' in everything I'm doing -- it's very exciting, it creates business development in many districts, and it helps travel to grow, which the Council of State is also very busy that we're going to get. When it comes to the Atlantic route, there is a lot of exciting planning, not least the development of a pre-project at Sandvika’s main site, with a view towards Hustadvika – a project that the Council of Architecture recommends to build on further planning. So the planning work has not stopped. It's very important when I'm going to go into dialogue to get a clarification on the further process. I've run the Atlantic road myself several times – I definitely think we have to get to a nice tourist path with many exciting attractions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1630	‘According to the media, several local leisure clubs are at risk of being decommissioned due to the need to do so. the new Work Environment Act, cf. Articles in the magazine of Rome on 14 November this year. This is an unsustainable situation and, hopefully, is also seen by the Government as unsustainable. Will the Council of State arrange for a change to the Working Environment Act, subsidiaryly? – then I will change the wording of the question, as it was written a little before Christmas – ‘contribute to the granting of a derogation to remedy the situation of the municipality of Skedsmo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1637	As the case has been made in the media, this concerns municipal employees who, in addition to their regular work in the municipality, work three to four hours extra a week in local leisure clubs. In the past, the Labour Inspectorate had the right to grant exemptions from the statutory limits on the general working time for such work of a social nature as the employee had in addition to his regular work for the same employer. This exemption is not continued in the new Work Environment Act. However, I cannot see that the consequences of this change are that recreational clubs must be closed down. In particular, it will be in the municipal sector that it will be appropriate to undertake such work of a social nature in addition to its regular work for the same employer. In this sector, employees will normally be organised in trade unions competent to enter into collective bargaining agreements under the Labour Environment Act, which open up such additional work. However, even in cases where such a collective agreement is not concluded, it will be possible to work on a voluntary basis beyond normal working hours. I point out that most people have an ordinary working week of 37 1/2 hours, while the law operates with a regular working time of 40 hours, which can be averaged over a period of one year. Therefore, even without a collective agreement, it will be possible to agree two and a half hours extra work each week, or four hours extra in about 30 of the week of the year. I therefore believe that, overall, the Labour Environment Act provides sufficient opportunities for municipal employees to continue to contribute to work of a social nature if the parties themselves take the initiative to establish the necessary agreements and, in this context, see no need to amend the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1648	I recognize some wording from a letter of reply to the representative Dagfinn Sundsbø. The Council of State also says here that you can't see that the consequence will be closure. The trade union leader in Skedsmo says that this is a very unfortunate outcome of changes in the work environment law, that much is good with the changes, but not at all this. The question then arises: Is it such that trade unionists and others who have made contact, both with me and with others, have misunderstood the law? And in that case, if it's due to a misunderstanding, what will the Council of State do to inform about the space that's within the law, as this is something that's not just about Skedsmo Municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1653	As my answer shows, in this kind of case you have two alternatives. One is that the Trade Union enters into a collective agreement as agreed upon by the trade union concerned here. The trade union has the ability to be itself an active party in ensuring that this type of situation can be resolved, simply by an agreement between, for example: The trade union and the employer concerned, if the employee concerned is organised in the Trade Union. As I said, the trade union has every opportunity to contribute to the smooth functioning of the work environment law. In addition, it is a fact that, without a collective agreement, four hours of extra work can be agreed on each week if it is 30 weeks a year – and that is not an up-to-date time period for a leisure club. So I think this is completely possible to deal with under the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1662	The union points to the law as the problem, while the council points out that this is fully possible within the law. The question then arises: if the trade union also sees locally that there is a need for greater space in relation to agreeing to this – what initiative will the Council of State then, if necessary, take in relation to looking at the law, which they consider to be too narrow in relation to agreeing to this type of tariff provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1672	In that case, I think I would say that I disagree with the Trade Unions locally. I can't exactly say that I feel it as some pressure from neither the trade union association nor the LO central in any case, to change the working environment law in these areas. As I said, I think it is completely possible to find solutions here. Not least if the trade union is interested in finding solutions, there are many possibilities. Now I think I'm going to be a little careful to take the position that it's the responsibility of the Council of State to inform the trade union movement about the Working Environment Act, but it's clear that when I contact the Department of the Trade Union on these questions, I'm of course happy to enter into a dialogue to answer them the questions they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1685	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘Veterinary representatives and the responsibilities of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in matters relating to the impact of the enterprise on the external environment were mentioned in the mandate of the Labour Law Committee, but the theme was not followed up by a sample, or by a department and a pooling in the further consideration of the legislative proposal. Workers’ organisations have recently addressed in a letter to the Ministry questions about the establishment of a committee to investigate the legal basis for such an extended task for the protection organisation. Will the Council of State follow up this initiative?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1694	As the representative Davøy refers to, the issue of the role of the Ombudsman and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in relation to the external environment was one of a number of points in the mandate of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. It is true that the sample did not see itself in a position to enter into this topic and thus did not make any proposals to that effect. The reason for this was probably because the competence of the sample members according to the sample mandate was otherwise within the working environment and labour law rather than in matters of the external environment. I regularly meet the main organisations on the employer’s and employee’s side in what is called the Employment Policy Council – a council established under the previous government – and the role of organisations in relation to climate and the external environment has recently been incorporated into the Council. The discussion on this will be continued at the next Council meeting, which will take place in February. This means that we are now having an ongoing dialogue with the organisations on how to cooperate on external environmental issues. Not least climate is an important theme in this way. In addition to proposals for a selection on the role of the protection service in relation to the external environment, a number of proposals on sample reductions, the launch of major investigations and concrete legislative proposals are being promoted in relation to the letter from the employee organisations to which Ms Tauvøy refers. The issues that are addressed are complex, and I will need a little more time before I can give the organisations an answer to that enquiry. I want to do that in an overall form, because it will often be that you can be present on some points, but not on all. That is why I want to respond fully to that enquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1705	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1708	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very positive that the Council of State says he wants to drag this into the Council already at the next meeting in February, and that he has a dialogue – if I understand correctly – with the employee organisations on this particular proposal. I personally see it as very positive that employee organisations take this initiative that the functions of the Protection Ombudsman should be seen in the context of the rules of the Pollution Act, among others. about this with the obligation for the enterprise to notify according to § 39 of the Act. In these days, with so much focus on climate issues – which was also addressed by the Council of State – it is very interesting. What I could imagine asking the Council of State is whether the Council of State thinks this is a good proposal, which should perhaps be followed up. And, does the Council of State have any time aspect for when you can imagine giving an answer to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1715	In the dialogue we have had so far in the Employment Policy Council, the parties – as I have experienced it – and in particular the employees’ side, perhaps not as clearly the employer’s side, have not least been concerned that climate issues will affect us all, of course also the labour market, and that it is therefore natural for the social partners to be involved in the cooperation with the Government in this field. What is more uncertain is the form of cooperation – whether it is right to have it in the Employment Policy Council, or whether it is right to look at other forms of cooperation. This is why the debate in the Labour Market Policy Council will continue at the February meeting. With regard to the concrete proposals made in that letter, I ask for an understanding that I do not want to evaluate each proposal now, but come back with a complete answer when I am ready for it. I think we have to get an answer in place during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1724	I thank the Council of State again for the answer, and feel that this is well managed in a good process in the future. Another question that I still want to raise, a theme that is also mentioned in so far as this letter, is about equality between whole-continuous shifts and three-part turns, which the Council of State is well aware of. A process has been started – an expert selection has been set up. So far, it has been that the social partners have not agreed on defining definitions, and it has also been a difficult political issue over a good few years, but now we have a government that has said in the Soria Moria Declaration that this is what it wants to find a solution to. My question to the Council of State on this matter is whether he believes that an expert committee can handle what the social partners do not have clearly, and whether there will be a proposal for a solution to this matter before the next decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1731	Laila Davay may know even better than I do in his career in the workplace that this is an important matter and a complicated matter. My starting point is that what is problematic about the matter right now is that, for example. the estimates for cost considerations, i.e. the implementation of equality between shifts and turns, crack violently, and at least I believe that an expert committee will bring us closer to the truth. What is important is that this expert committee should see the shift-turn issue in the context of other important issues, such as: involuntary part-time and small positions in the care and hospital sectors. I believe that the whole of this sample work should be able to help us get closer to achieving what I think is common goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1740	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘Cripos deal with many of the most serious criminal cases in Norway. The employees involved in demanding acts of violence, assault and murder, and it is central to being able to attract the best skills. A look-up in the December 11th VG refers to strict overtime rules that make it difficult for investigators to carry out parts of the job and that the pay does not correspond to the workload. Does the Council of State consider this to be appropriate, in particular in view of recruitment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1749	First of all, I would like to point out that we in the Department of Justice and the Government believe that Kripos is particularly competent and does an exceptionally good job in terms of resolving crime. I think we agree on that. I think it's quite peculiar that we've managed to gather such a good competence environment, and that's all there is to ring the ring. The query is based on a query in the VG. I'm going to give answers from the way we think it is, and it can sometimes be useful, without blaming VG for that reason. The question that the representative raises concerns both working time regulations and pay conditions of a more general nature. The working time regulations relate to the changes that have taken place in the Working Environment Act since 2005, which we have discussed many times here in Stortinget. These changes include: its background in the implementation of the so-called EU Labour Directive. The general rule of the law is, in the case of day-to-day work-free, that the worker must have at least 11 hours of continuous work-free work within 24 hours. For police officers, a derogation from this general rule has been agreed. Under certain conditions, the period of unemployment may be shorter than 11 hours. The Directorate of Police informs the Department that today, in conjunction with previous restrictions on overtime use, the agreed exceptions to the new regulatory framework provide a better basis for the provision of police services than if only the general rule of law had been applied. At the same time, it is stated that the HMS perspective/protection aspect for the officials was also central when the exemptions were agreed. I want to draw that out, too. We have discussed working time regulations quite a lot now, and what is being done in relation to the Norwegian police force also helps to improve the working situation, which, once again, the Government believes is crucial to getting well delivered in relation to police services. As explained, Kripos has not had any particular problems adapting to this new regulatory framework. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration is a department of the Department of Main Tariff Negotiations in the state – then we are on pay. Negotiations at this level take place between the Ministry and the main associations on the labour side. It can be stated that, following the main tariff negotiations, Kripos, like the other special agencies and police districts of the police, is the venue for local negotiations. This means that, within the framework established by the State and the main associations during negotiations on the main tariff agreement in the State, the negotiations take place locally at Kripos. Recruitment rates are also determined within the framework agreed between the central parties. It may be difficult, not only in Kripos, but also in general in the police and in the public sector, to compete with other employers in terms of highly skilled and attractive staff. It's a focus we have especially on Kripos, because there we need special expertise. We also have to count on a certain turnover of people who have good competence. However, the police department has informed us that there has been no deterioration in the recent situation of Kripos in recruiting and retaining skilled labour. I am sure that the directorate will follow closely how this develops in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1764	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I think we fully agree that Kripos in Norway is doing a very good job. They have acute skills in a number of areas, and in many ways this is a prerequisite for us to manage some of the really serious criminal cases in Norway. Because it is the case that local police often have to call on Kripos when matters get big and difficult, and that you do not have the necessary resources or competences locally. Then it is important for me to get the Council of State's assurance that there are not different types of services within the police where one service is so much more attractive than the other, i.e. pay or in relation to other working time regulations, etc., that it makes you miss out on some of the skills that Kripos needs. I want the Council of State's assurance that there are no internal conditions in the police that will allow Kripos to get into that competition badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1769	We'll never get into a situation where there's a level playing field all over Norway in the sense that the places are equally attractive to apply to. It is not possible to put under the chair that some police places are more attractive than others, because people actually perceive the work tasks as more exciting there. And that's the way it should be. However, what the questioner is looking for is to ensure that working conditions are largely eliminated and contribute to it through the legislation we have. I believe that this is also a responsibility for those who are signed, and I will contribute to that. At the same time, we've seen that the way that Kripos works, it just attracts a lot of good skills, and it's a very attractive place for many to be. And there I fully agree with the questioner: we need a strong crisis in order to be able to provide assistance to the police districts out there, and of course also in the matters handled by the Kripos Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1776	I would like to thank you for your answer. I think it's important in large and difficult cases to keep the pressure up. I also see that the new working time regulations have made it a little more difficult to get all the cabals to go up as well as you did before. So my next question to the Council of State is, have you considered whether Kripos should be bigger? Should there be more people there to make sure that you have enough resources to put in, just to keep the pressure on top of big and difficult things? Because it is important to get started well and make good progress in resolving as many issues as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1783	That's for evaluation. We have also, from the government side, just moved to the stage where we have strengthened Kripos and the National Attorney General’s Office – which is very closely linked to Kripos’s activities – at the latest in the current year’s budget, and it is also in the next year’s budget. It's particularly important in some areas I think it's important that we stick with competence. When it comes to crime on the Internet, we've gathered very good skills in Kripos. It's of an international class, in my opinion. We have to take care of that. There we have also chosen to make a reinforcement, among other things. by establishing a police station online. This is a good example of how, while we can contribute more resources and money, we are also holding back the incredibly important competences that Kripos represents in the Internet field, which are of great international importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1794	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: «It is with great wonder that I see that Mandal hospitals are in danger of being laid down. A full curtailment of all ISF funding for day-care rehabilitation has now been proposed, which will affect the unit completely. Expensive construction and reduction of such an efficient and wide range of services is very unfortunate for patients and employees, especially when similar services are not available. What opportunities should these patients be given in the future, and what will the Council of State do to avoid this offer and thus the entire Mandal hospital being closed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1803	As is known, intervention-driven funding accounts for a significant proportion of hospital income base. It is therefore important that both regional health establishments and health establishments take local into account the requirements for recording activity as an ISF. During the treatment of St.prp. No 47 for 1999-2000, on the hospital economy and budget 2000, Stortinget concluded a proposal from the Government to establish an advisory medical sample to assist the Ministry, after 2006 the Directorate for Social and Health, on medical professional issues related to the recording and quality control of medical data. That's what the billing committee is called. Procedures are also in place to ensure that the required legislation is complied with. Changes in annual payments, including: based on recommendations from the Billing Committee, when all information is available for the whole year, i.e. October/November of the following year. In the annual accounts for 2006, the Social and Health Directorate has recommended that payments to regional health enterprises be reduced by about 88 million. kr in the ISF settlement for 2006. The reduction is mainly related to the misregistration of day rehabilitation. The Executive Board’s recommendation is based on the Committee’s assessments and recommendations, including: a major review of the registration of day-care services in rehabilitation in 2006. The review shows that many hospitals and institutions have failed to meet the requirements of the legislation for reimbursement payments for this special subject area. Services that should have been financed through outpatient tariffs, which are lower than the ISF refund, have mistakenly entered the basis of payment as a day-to-day treatment. There is also a wide variation in registration practices between regional health establishments in this area. Rehabilitation is a very important area, and it is very important to provide equivalent funding for rehabilitation services across the country. I would like to stress that no questions have been asked about the quality of the offer. Regional health businesses are responsible for ensuring that good rehabilitation services are maintained in line with the requirement to prioritize rehabilitation in the 2007 mission papers. With regard to the question of the future to the rehabilitation department in Mandal, I will refer to the budgetary processes at Southern Hospital and Health South-East. The final budget for 2008 in Health South-East is not yet formally managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1818	I thank you for your answer. Now it is the case that the Health Board of the South-East refers to its opinions on budgetary balance requirements, that this is disproportionate to the mission document, where rehabilitation and closure of local hospitals are to be protected. The South Hospital now had the board meeting on Monday, and then the decision was made that Mandal Hospital should be laid down, postponed. Will the Council of State ensure that the mission document is followed, because here it seems that there may be a gap between what is desirable and what is contained in the mission paper on the requirement to keep the budget. And in case yes, this should be done by cutting other patient services or by e.g. ISF funding for rehabilitation can be increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1827	Firstly, there is no doubt that rehabilitation is one of the areas we want to strengthen. That's also why we have notified it in the mission document for the current year. I could also say that we're going to repeat it for next year. Then there's another side to that, and it's that all the institutions and hospitals have to deal with the laws and regulations that apply. And when there's someone who for a slightly different reason has calculated this in another way, there must also have some consequences, and that's why it's been pulled in some money from someone. In the case of Mandal in particular, I have been informed that if what Sørlanden hospital has proposed, but is now exposed, would become a reality and this involves a significant change in the service provision, it will be reported to health south-east and, if necessary, to me for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1836	I thank you again for the answer. It sounds positive that the Council of State is keeping an eye on what's going on down there. And now that it's exposed, you might be able to review this again. This will affect the rehabilitation offer that exists there today, rather harshly, plus that as I said, it is a local hospital. Now it's like some companies have to turn around and look for each dollar. Maybe that's the way it should be to eat what you want to focus on. Hospitals in Health South-East have also been required to use the monopolist Hospital Partner for the purchase of services. And then we see that this scheme has caused the hospitals tens of millions in extra costs. Will the Council of State then perhaps lead to changes to this imposed, so that individual companies do not have to cut the patient offer in order to balance the budget, as we see at the Southern Hospital, where other offers go beyond those to find these dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1845	It is difficult for me to comment on Southland Hospital or Mandal in particular something further. We are now in budgetary processes, and that now means, as in many years before this, that at this time of the year, there are often very many proposals that are present in the public debate, but not all of them become reality at all. Then I want to comment on something that the representative Schmidt mentions here, the claim that all health companies and hospitals have to turn every penny. It is a fact that since 2002, our hospitals have received 35 billion more – 35,000 million. kr more – and then it is difficult to present it as if we are facing a sector in which there is a crisis and a crisis. That there are changes, that there are demanding changes in relation to the expectations that are and in relation to the costs that some hospitals have incurred, that is. But I think it's fundamentally undemocratic if not all health care companies relate to what the Storting decides at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1861	This question has been postponed. Question 21, that's already answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1870	This question, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister of Knowledge, will be raised by the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1873	‘The level of awareness emphasises the importance of internationalisation in secondary education. However, the Education Directorate has sent letters to all the counties and asked them, on the basis of § 3-1 of the Training Act, to cut off the possibility of self-employment on trips under the school's direction. This despite the fact that the paragraph does not take a decision on who should cover the cost of school trips. Nor has the problem been discussed in the preparatory work of the law. Will the Council clarify the free principle so that current travel practices can continue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1880	First, I would like to clarify that the Directorate of Education is responsible for interpreting current legislation when there is a need for clarification at national level. It was against this background that the directorate recently sent letters to the county officials and municipalities with a legal interpretation of whether the training law allows the county councils to demand that the pupils, apprentices and apprentices pay expenses for school trips. It was referred to the Training Act § 3-1, which states that the training in public secondary school or apprenticeship is free of charge. Following the change in the population in 2007, the county was given responsibility for holding the students with the necessary teaching materials and digital equipment. The requirements of Section 3-1 state that continuing training is free of charge and, after the change in the main course, the staff are equal to primary and continuing training. The changes in primary school law came as a result of a development in which more and more schools took students on higher and higher-paid school trips. Such tours made a difference between the students who could be on the tours and those who didn't have the money to spend. For many of the families who saw themselves affording to let their children on the tours, this was also a huge financial burden. Therefore, there was a broad agreement in the Stortinget that school trips should be free of charge for students, and the amendment of the law makes this also applicable to the detention in camp school. The size was behind that change. It will also apply to the free principle of continuing training. The aim is an inclusive school in which everyone should be able to participate on the same line, regardless of their personal financial background. It is therefore the responsibility of those who expect that if a school trip is considered to be part of the further training, the school may not require that the cost of the trip be borne by the students or staff. This will apply to all activities and tours that go under the direction of the school. I'm told that the school should be free for students, and that the school should not create a difference between the students because of the economy of the family deira. At the same time, I'm busy being able to use the possibilities one has to finance school trips. I would like to make it clear that there is still a large room for voluntary efforts in relation to trips that cost more than the county municipality can initially pay for. This is also clarified in the Education Directorate's letter, which refers to a circular from the Ministry on the practice of the staff in relation to the financing of thematic tours. Such voluntary efforts may be made in the form of gifts, virtues, etc. The representative, Eriksen, refers to the fact that the promise of knowledge focuses on internationalisation in the further training, and asks whether I would like to clarify the free price index so that ‘day’s travel practices can continue. The letter to the directorate dated 15 November this year is just a clarification of what it means in practice that the right to education in public secondary school or apprenticeship is free. However, I would like to assess whether the labels attached to it are working after the intention. I am busy getting a sensible local practice before the framework for free training. I would also like to emphasise the value of getting through school students to know different countries and cultures. Internationalisation in training is necessary in order to provide children and young people with the skills they require to be closed down in society today and tomorrow, and to contribute to responsible and solidarity in the world. The aim of building international understanding among children and young people in school and training is also clearly reflected in the Training Act and in the general curriculum. The county council is responsible for facilitating training so that the pupils and apprentices in continuing training can develop international competence and co-responsibility. I am positive that schools do well to provide parts of the supply in the form of e.g. a study trip abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1901	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I think it is positive that the Council of State now comes with this clarification, which I feel as a positive approach to the whole matter. I share the commitment to the Council of State in terms of the free principle. It's supposed to be at the bottom. But I am also concerned that the free principle should not be interpreted for rigidity, so that you do not give the possibilities that you have after all. We know that White buses are one of the actors that arrange travel for the schools. The scheme is recognised, and it is an important contribution in terms of tolerance and historylessness. We also know that several actors report that several trips are now being cancelled. My question will then be: What will the Council of State do to ensure that the message he gives to the Stortinget today is conveyed to the schools, so that you can clear up the uncertainty that exists within these types of tours?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1912	As I said before, the principle of free training is the same as that of a mass accumulation. I also record that the representative clearly states that we are behind it. I can't decide on the individual actors and how they operate. But I am, as I said, busy getting a sensible local practice within the framework that training should be free, which also ensures that many of the sensible activities – travel and other things related to the goal of internationalisation – can work well. I would therefore like to assess whether the carers, as attached, are working as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1919	I don't need any more follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1924	I don't have to answer either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-19.ana.ud897e1929	Today's map has been processed. The President wants everyone present, a really good Christmas and a good new year. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
