ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e39	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e48	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meeting today. The representative, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e55	On behalf of the representatives of Anders Anundsen, Åse M. Schmidt and myself, I would like to propose a national package of measures to combat unrest and disciplinary problems in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e60	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that the Stortinget deal with the supplementary agenda on the ordinary agenda. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e76	This case involves much more than the purchase of transport aircraft. But I'm going to leave those sides to point to the setting. The Committee has just focused on transport aircraft. It is not to be avoided that the procedure has been central to the debate. This was a matter that the government started in December 2006, and as far as I understand it, they had planned to deal with the matter in the Council of State on 25 May this year. That also happened, but the problem with that was that it would give the opposition parties in Stortinget three and a half days in the proceedings after the case was referred here in the house, before we had to have our proposals ready for our groups. It's highly unsatisfactory. We are well aware that part of this time has been used for long internal debates between the three government parties. The fact that half of the Storting has been familiar with the drug, and half of it, is unfortunate. We have confronted the Council of State with this relationship a few times — during consultation and in debate here in the Chamber last week — and then the Council of State stressed that the Government needed time. It certainly did, but it's quite unacceptable that the opposition only gets a few days to go through this. In fact, based on the answers we have received, I am in doubt that the Council of State has taken this seriously. It may indicate that the Government is occupied with itself and its power, and so others are only allowed to be quick when the Government has finally made up its mind. However, when this matter is dealt with – despite the time pressure that has been – it is partly due to the attendance of the Storting as such, and partly to the fact that the opposition has shown significantly more efficiency than the government parties have done. I would like to stress that if this case had not been dealt with, 100 pst would be. This is the responsibility of the Government – and of the Council of State. When I'm concerned about this relationship, it's not just about getting this case highlighted, which is important in itself – it's after all a decision of 3.6 billion kroner we're talking about – but it's also about the next big issue we're going to get, namely the long-term programme for the next four years. If the government manages to spend six months on such a relatively limited matter as this, you might wonder how the government will manage to complete the entire long-term programme in the four to four and a half months available. I must again stress that the committee has unanimously said that if we are to deal with this matter properly, the matter must come here in the winter. The government itself, through the way they have managed the appointment of the Defence Policy Committee, has come into the situation that they can only start proceedings after 1 November of this year. That means that the government has four to four and a half months to not only make the professional assessment in the Ministry of Defence, but also to do the political horse trade that has proved so difficult in this limited case. I just want to repeat this. If you can get a significantly more effective treatment than what the Government has shown in this case, it will be possible to have the long-term programme dealt with after the scheme. But if it isn't, then it's the government's choice and the government's responsibility. The few months you have given yourself are due not least to the fact that it took ten months from the time you decided to have a range of defence policy, until the government managed to appoint this range of defence policy, so that the responsibility is clearly placed. Then to the facts of the matter. In many ways, it is surprising that the question at all appears in the Stortinget. We shall not go back further than to the budget documents last autumn – St.prp. No 1 – where it is clear that when the aircraft we own today – the four that have been sent for upgrade in Canada – come back from Canada, we will be in the situation “that the aircraft can again carry out all kinds of known tasks up to approx. 2012-2015». That's the proposition's promise. When that's true, it's strange that we've come into this situation. So the question is, why did the Council of State take such a sad mistake last year, when this statement is in the budget papers? One of the reasons is, as we've been informed, that the availability of the planes is lower than what we thought. It appeared in a user conference between C-130 users during the autumn. That is a good and acceptable justification. But the question is, of course, how exactly is science now the question of availability? We just have to admit that the committee has not had the opportunity to drill properly on that matter in the few days we've had at our disposal. Another possible argument is the ability to protect and deploy upgraded avionics in the aeroplane. This is something the Defense and the Government themselves chose to take out. If it had been put in place, according to the hearing we have had, every single aircraft – that is, individually – would have been able to carry out missions, as far as I understand, also in Afghanistan. But then comes a new question. Would it have been possible to get this upgrade if you had moved on with it? Then there was some interesting information in the hearings and in the written answers, that it had now been calculated that it would take 45 months, by the way, four years, to get this right. The question then is: if this information is correct, how could it be believed, when the budget documents were written last year, that the aircraft would be able to carry out all kinds of missions until 2012-2015? So it would be four years before you were there, and four years from 2006 or 2007 is probably about. 2010 or 2011. The question is, has it ever been an option to get these planes in the air the way you want? I would like to remind you that Afghanistan is not a new operation. It's an operation we knew about last year's harvest. I guess we also knew that this could go a lot of ways. It could be more dangerous, and the safety assessments that the government is now making, I'm going to assume that last year, too, we were thinking about. What then becomes the question the Council of State has to answer is: Was the statement in St.prp. No 1 error when the proposition was written? I'm not going to say that it was, but I'm sitting with a feeling that one of the principles that's underpinned here is that the way goes on as you go. So the question is whether it's satisfactory for such a big decision as this. Now we're once in this difficult situation, and then the question is, what do we do? I think it's of limited interest to go back five to ten years and ask why you didn't buy new planes at an earlier date. As far as I understand, that was an economic justification. There was a lot to go into the defense, and the defense had to balance its expenses better. I think it's hard to judge those assessments, even though we would all want the frames to be better at the time, so that you could have been in a better situation. But the answers now give me the impression that there are funds. It's nice. We then have the freedom to handle the matter. However, there must be very strong reasons for setting aside normal tendering procedures. There has to be something extraordinary and something problematic in the matter to do so. So the question is, are the problems we are now facing, big enough for us to set aside a tendering procedure? The government clearly says yes, but is similarly economical in justifying this position. The hearings and questions asked give some answers, but I have to say that it is a little difficult to deal with matters on the basis of the tail and the drag principle – that the burden of proof is closest to the Storting, and that it is our job to find the arguments. It is not primarily in the documents that they are written. I also see that we have repeated several times that we do not want to have so-called tactical transport capacity. The point is that when the planes come back from Canada, it is possible to carry out all normal missions, with the exception of the Afghanistan operation. You get the impression by reading the answers. But Afghanistan is important. I would like to underline that. It's priority number. 1 for Norway, priority No. 1 for NATO, and not least it's important for my party that that operation be carried out with force. This, I think, is an important argument. There's still reason to say two things. When the planes cannot be used in Afghanistan, I understand that there are two reasons for this. One is the security situation, where the government describes a kind of ‘worst case’ in the proposition, which presupposes that ISAF does not succeed in its task in the first few years, but still has a problem. I agree that such a strict assessment is used, for safety must be at the top of our crews. I don't think there's any particular doubt about that. Although questions can be raised in the description, I am not in doubt that we have to base a worst case scenario, because neither is this some kind of exact science, and then we have to introduce the necessary margins. The second question, which I'm probably a little bit more in doubt about, is the availability question, which is also not an absolute size, but we haven't been able to drill enough in this. The third is the time factor, which I have to say I'm a little bit surprised, because it'll actually take a little while before we have all of these planes in place. The time gap to cover, as far as I can look for quick head count, will not be more than three to four years – that is what we are talking about. What is at the heart of the matter is that because of the Afghanistan operation, a margin-of-marginal safety assessment and an assessment of availability, and for a rather limited period of time, we are now deciding the entire transport aircraft solution on a long-term basis. It's a pretty demanding position to do it. Now I don't feel sure that we've got all the elements, even though we got some extra days in the committee. I therefore want to be most comfortable with that we get a more thorough assessment from the Government. The question is, of course, whether by asking for a more thorough assessment, we close one of the options, namely the one proposed by the Government, a quick purchase, and that the matter is missing if we are not able to write the contract in June. It says in the papers, in the answers, that that could be the situation. That's the formulation used. It means in good Norwegian that the government really doesn't know, because you've never had the imagination to think that you don't get what you want, and you haven't checked out and asked the Americans if it's possible to sign this in October too. That's why the answer to this is: don't know. But I do believe that if the Storting does not manage to deal with the matter and send it back to the Government, it will be possible to deal with this question as well – at least the answers from the Government are repeatedly so vague in this area. I would like to mention proposal No. 3, which is a short-term postponement, until the Storting meets again until the fall. Then I think it would be possible to get this done. Now I'm realistic enough to know that as long as the issue has been put to reality in Stortingen, it's not certain that that proposal will be adopted – to put it that way. There will therefore also be a need to report a card in terms of what happens if we are forced to vote for reality. So I am not comfortable with that situation, but I understand that it is coming, and then, as I have also reported in the setting, ready to say that everything takes into account at least few uncertainties by going for the recommendation itself. I would then like to emphasise that we base a strict assessment of safety. I'm not sure we can. We can't get the best plane. But I am not so worried about the price question, which will be an important part of the tendering procedure. I agree with the Council of State in her assessment that the US Air Force has probably managed to negotiate a price that would not be so easy for Norway to beat – to say it that way. And this single element makes me calmer than I would otherwise be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e122	The representative Jan Petersen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e127	The representative Petersen writes, and also says in his post now, that there are still important aspects of the matter that are unsatisfactoryly illuminated. We all agree that the committee has had a relatively quick examination of this matter, but we have actually received an answer to what we have asked for. In this case, which is just a tenth of a whole budget, we have actually asked three times as many questions as in the defence budget of the year. So we've at least asked questions, and we've had open consultations with defence ministers, bosses and stakeholders, so it hasn't been tails and drags, as the representative said in his statement. After the hearing, the Right informed that more questions would arise. And you were open to it, you were to get answers. But the right did not ask any more questions, and then my question is to Petersen: What is the Right still not answered in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e134	It's obvious that Signe Eye has fewer concerns than I do, and I respect that. But what's the point of our tailing and pulling – I want to keep that wording – is that we have to feel safe about the recommendations that are being made, and I still don't feel safe about that recommendation. I don't feel sure we're getting the best plane. I do not feel secure in the assessments of the times given here. I notice, among other things. that the department has not had the talks with Airbus that one should have to try to clarify what one disagrees about. I think it has some questions about how good C-130J will be. Are they fully prepared to go in, or are they not? There are a number of questions that I would like to have clarified. But I came to the stage that I saw that part of those questions are of such a technical, so difficult nature that the committee is not suitable to go deep into this. It is first an assessment by the Government that will give us that substance. When I came to that confession, I declined to go further in these questions. And that's to be welcomed by the Government, because the conclusion of this would have been that the matter would remain in the committee, and then there would not have been a big deal on this issue until the fall, no matter what the majority of people think about it. In this area, too, I might think that the Committee has been shy about the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e139	The rapporteur criticises the fact that the Government has given the Committee a short time to deal with this matter. What I'm asking is whether the rapporteur does not see that there may be a connection between going in for quick purchases, and the fact that previous governments, including the representative Petersen himself, have not been clear enough or quick enough to make a decision, either regarding the upgrade of existing aircraft or about the purchase of new transport aircraft. This means that Norway has no special tactical transport aircraft capacity today, which we are all concerned about being changed on this matter. Could things have been done better before? That's the question to the representative Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e144	It is possible, but as Breck is aware, it is completely irrelevant in this context. The point is that the government has been sitting for six months with the case. The point is that much of that time has gone into talks between government parties to try to agree. If the government parties had only escaped this matter one or two weeks earlier, there would have been a dramatic second situation. And that it had not been possible to get to this one or two weeks before – I do not buy it. Frankly, I think this was one of the more exotic attempts to talk about something else. The responsibility lies with the government parties. The responsibility lies with the Government. And I think maybe if the government in the next election campaign makes a big point of how powerful a majority government is, you have to be prepared for quite a few crooked smiles around the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e151	This government has done a lot to sort out the financial management of the defense, among other things. establish a good supply and competition situation in relation to the purchase of combat aeroplanes. So we're in that situation, which hopefully is a one-time case, that when it comes to transport aircraft, we're going to go away from that principle. Can we expect Right too to support the fact that in the future one will be completely consistent in establishing and following a process in which all the providers will be allowed to make their bids when purchasing in the Defence Sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e156	We fully agree that the normal rules must be based on them. That there may be exceptional situations, as has been done in this case, we must also be open to future events. It is a bit dependent on the case and the circumstances that develop. I have therefore been willing to deviate from my position on tenders in this case, on the basis of a very specific assessment. That should be appreciated by the representative Jacobsen as a representative of the government parties. But in reality, he may not appreciate what he has to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e161	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e164	As the Advocate General has explained, the aim of the investment proposal is to obtain the approval of two new property, construction and construction projects by the Storting. This is a multi-purpose hall at the Setermoen garrison and embellishments in Rena clay. Furthermore, there is the approval of two new material projects, new sea target missiles and new C-130J transport aircraft respectively. In addition, a modified cost framework is proposed for the project for new facilities for the rescue helicopter service in Bodø and for the acquisition of satellite communications for the frigate and MTB projects. Finally, the proposition contains some issues for information. This is the connection of Mauken-Blötind, ground-to-air radio infrastructure, secure access to space segment, i.e. satellite, and a review of the down-and-out processes in the Defence. As regards the review of the disembarkation and dissociation processes in the Defence, the Workers' Party is pleased that these issues are addressed in depth as a matter of their own at a later stage. I would like to stress that in all cases, except for the quick acquisition of new C-130J transport aircraft, it is a unanimous committee setting. I think this is good, as defence policy is too important for us to play political games on such issues. The aim of the Stortinget should, in the view of the Labour Party, be to seek broad political settlements on defence issues. I therefore think it is sad that we have not managed to agree on the need to quickly provide new tactical transport aircraft. The Labour Party believes that Norway and the Defence have a need to dispose of tactical transport aircraft capacity both today and for the future. We therefore look with concern at the information that has come from the Ministry of Defence that Norway is currently in practice without operationally available tactical air transport capacity. Today's old Hercules planes are not fit to fly in war zones, even after completed upgrade. What is crucial for the Workers' Party is that the solution of quick purchase is the one that gets the fastest transport aircraft available for our international operations and thereby the best possible security for our soldiers. In recent years, the Investment Plans for the Defence have operated on the acquisition of new transport aircraft in the period 2012-2015. Based on such an investment plan, it has been necessary to upgrade our old aircraft, so that we have some operational capacity until a future solution is in place. Unfortunately, the new information from the Ministry of Defence shows that the state of our existing C-130H is worse than expected and that a limited upgrade will be more extensive and take longer than previously foreseen. In addition, the availability of our old aircraft by such a solution will be so low that it will not give us the ability to make a contribution in the form of a transport plane in an international operation over time. In my opinion, unfortunately, the situation we are now in shows that former governments and defence have not prioritised the follow-up of our national tactical transport aircraft as you should. But one thing is to complain about things that should have been done, another is to take responsibility once the situation has become as it has been. In the view of the Workers' Party, the need for new tactical transport aircraft is undeniable. In our view, a normal acquisition that would give competition between the relevant operators of aircraft – C-130J or A400M – would initially be preferable. However, this must be weighed against the fact that Norway is currently without a real tactical flight capacity, while there is an increasing need to have such aeroplanes available to take care of the safety of our forces out in international operations. The intention to ensure the safety of Norwegian personnel and thus ensure as quickly as possible the availability of international tactical transport aircraft means that the Workers' Party supports the proposal for the rapid acquisition of four new C-130J for a cost framework of SEK 3.6 billion, combined with the possible rental of an aircraft from Italy. It is this option that will provide Norway with the necessary capacity as a matter of urgency, i.e.: a partial capacity from 2009 onwards and full capacity from 2011. I would like to stress that it is commendable that this government takes responsibility and cuts through on this issue, given the lack of prioritisation and follow-up that has been revealed in relation to Norway's tactical transport aircraft in the last ten years. I'm proud to belong to a government coalition that makes sure that the soldiers' safety is focused. Finally, I would like to make some comments to the Progress Party and the Right in this matter. Firstly, I find it very alarming that the Progress Party is moving towards the rapid acquisition of transport aircraft, after the Progress Party has been complaining for years that we do not have good enough transport aircraft and that other parties have not wanted to take responsibility for the acquisition of new aircraft. It is therefore strange that the Progress Party is now opposed to a flight acquisition on the basis of a proposal that is more or less in line with the earlier proposed Progress Party. The progress party should therefore give credit to this government when there is finally someone who takes responsibility. But when it comes to the problem, this does show that the Progress Party is more concerned with political double games than with dealing with actual realities. Secondly – and that is both to the Right and the Advance Party – I would like to say that I understand that you think it has been a short time to deal with the matter. But I must also stress that sometimes the situation is such that we have to extend far, and let security – in this case for our soldiers in operational service abroad – go ahead of proceedings preferred by us depositors. As we have also seen from some media recordings, it was not the case that the defence committee was reading down on issues when the investment proposition came. As regards the procedure in this case, I would like to point out that the committee has worked under high pressure. I would like to commend the rapporteur and the other members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for their thorough and effective treatment. We have conducted open consultations with stakeholders and the Minister of Defence. In addition, we have sent very many questions from the Committee, to which we have once again received detailed answers. What questions have the Right asked, but have not been answered, are incomprehensible to me. I can't imagine how we could deal with this matter differently, taking into account the actual reality and the critical situation in which we, after all, are up to, and which we must take seriously. But after all, I am satisfied with the result and the setting, not least that the Right Subsidiary chooses to support the proposal for quick purchase of four new C-130J, as it is precisely this option that will provide ‘lesser uncertainties’, according to the Right, which I agree with. So finally, it's the Storing that orders the soldiers to go out in international operations. Then it is also our responsibility to ensure that they get the security that is possible when they are out. New transport aircraft will be part of such enhanced safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e204	In this case, the working party has been very anxious to put in place this so-called quick acquisition of new C-130J. How does the Workers' Party consider that Norway should be able to participate in rapid response operations on special missions when the C-130J chosen according to the case documents cannot be used for this type of task?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e209	I don't agree that the new C-130J planes from Lockheed Martin that we're now getting can't participate in the operations that we're in now. This concerns Afghanistan, and it could also apply alternatively in Sudan, if we are going to participate there. We've been confirmed by the Ministry of Defence that these planes can definitely participate in these dangerous operations. It's also the way they want the self-protection system and the instruments and technical details that are needed, that I didn't know very much about, but that I've learned a lot about gradually during this treatment. There's nothing that needs to be upgraded when we get the planes from Lockheed Martin – the first in 2009, and all four in place in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e214	Signe Eye underlined the desire for a broad consensus on defence policy, which I agree with. But then she said that she was sorry that there had not now been an agreement on the quick purchases. It means in good Norwegian that in order to reach a broad consensus, one must agree with the Government. I hope it's not with the attitude you're going to take to work on the future long-term plan. If there is to be broad political agreement, the Government must be prepared to compromise also in relation to the parties in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e219	I still want to argue that in terms of defence policy, it is very important that we have broad consensus. In fact, today’s Storting has a broader consensus in defence policy than we have ever had. It's important. We agree to send soldiers to Afghanistan, and we are also discussing Sudan. As for the coming long-term message, I see that this is one of those points where it's not enough for just a majority government to conclude. Here we also have to bring with us other parts of the Storing. If we take such a decision with a broad consensus, it's a long-standing decision. It deserves our defense, and it deserves our soldiers. That's why I'm very busy that we're going to get to that. I also hope that the High Representative and the chairperson of the Committee are prepared to arrive at a sensible outcome that our country has served – long or short time in the course of its proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e226	The Christian People's Party is also committed to reaching broad consensus in defence policy, but then the starting point is that one must have time to find that consensus. The Christian People's Party is a little surprised at what the position writes in the note, where they indicate that previous governments have not prioritised this, and therefore we have ended up in this situation that we are now in. It's become a kind of pattern for this government to owe to previous governments. Now a question was asked at the hearing of the representative Thorbjørn Jagland, but it was in cash rejected by the head of defense that former governments could have known about the new information that has come. In addition, this government did not know the new information when the matter was referred to in the budget proposal. What is the representative Signe Eye's opinion when she joins and writes that the failure of previous governments is the cause?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e233	When we write that there are past governments that have neglected, there is a criticism of both former workers' party governments and former Bondevik governments. So we all cut over one comb. We think that's right. It's actually not like many people have said that this is a quick purchase. We've been investigating for ten years. We have had five-six samples that have been investigated year after year and that have said that we need new transport aircraft, and there has also been a great deal of agreement that both the aircraft from Airbus and the aircraft from Lockheed Martin are suitable aircraft for Norway in the future. There must be reason to be critical of processes that have not been brought about and that now we have come up with a situation of coercion. The Labour Party believes at least that regular bidding rounds with regular purchases are the best, but as the situation is now, we had no choice, because we put the soldiers' safety in the high seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e238	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e241	Let's be clear: the progress party wants to buy new transport aircraft. But the Progress Party wants a clean procedure and process, so that we can be sure that we make the right choice. After all, it's approx. Four billion taxpayers we're talking about, and that's plane defense going to operate on for decades to come. There is no party that has so often proposed to acquire new transport aircraft over so many years. Time and again, either by a representative proposal or in budgetary positions, we have proposed purchases, and again and again, and as many times, the proposals have been voted down by the government parties, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party. Why, then, have we made these proposals again and again without receiving response and support from other parties? Well, because we've seen how different changing governments have let it slide and go until finally all six Hercules transport planes were parked on the ground. This was predictable. Nevertheless, it was not taken solemnly. When we proposed this, it was also because there was only one alternative, namely new Hercules aircraft. We didn't have any other options. The crisis was great, and the offers were there – as good and as quickly delivered as now. Then we've come into the situation that the Storting has granted 300 million. NOK for wing change and repair of four of the old aeroplanes. They are scheduled to be back in Norway during this month, fully operational to operate tactical operations until 2017, according to the warranty from the factory that has repaired the aeroplanes and has extensive experience with these aeroplanes, and has repaired these types of aeroplanes since they were placed on the market. When it is now announced that the aeroplanes are not avionic-coupled, that any avionic-couple upgrade will take 45 months, i.e. that they are unable to fly, for example: in Afghanistan or other similar areas of war, and that they can only fly 50 pst. in Norway, this comes as a great surprise. This was not informed by Stortinget when the 300 million were granted. kr. I expect the Control and Constitutional Committee to take a closer look at this, when it is now proposed to purchase new aircraft for approx. DKr 4 billion. It's very close to thinking that these 300 million. Nor could it have been used for the purchase of the new aeroplanes. I also expect that all this strange thing that has happened will be subject to the subsequent interest of the National Audit Office. The Government has now recommended the launch of a so-called fast acquisition of new Hercules C-130J transport aircraft, after several years of proposed acquisition of new aeroplanes by the Progress Party. When I first mentioned that there is a desire for a clean process and procedure, this is also due to the fact that the proposal has been in the department for months due to disagreement within the Government. When the matter finally reached Stortinget, the parties actually only had three days to group it. This is what I call inexcusable proceedings. Due to the goodwill of the Committee and the extension of the session, the matter is being examined today, despite the imprudence of the Government. In our opinion, this is not how we deal with issues in Stortinget, as far as so much money and aircraft are concerned that the defense, after all, is likely to live with for many years to come. The mission of the Ministry has also resulted in the postponement of part of this investment proposal to the autumn. We are reminded of the military settlement which the committee most favourably dealt with in the Storting a few days ago, with irresponsible short term treatment, but which was of great importance to the soldiers. A few days ago, we were informed from the Ministry that the planned report on women in the Defence Office, which was due to be presented in May, did not come until June, and that therefore we did not have to deal with it until the harvest. The same applies to the Odelstingen proposal for amendments to the Safety Act, which was announced in March. Now this is exposed to the autumn. The progress batch has, as mentioned above, been engaged in the creation of new transport aeroplanes. Today we have newly repaired aircraft, and we do not see the need for so-called quick purchase and believe we have time for a tidy bidding round, otherwise quite in line with the Government's own Soria Moria declaration. Today, we have all the more planes to choose from. New Hercules aircraft is one alternative, A400M from Airbus another, and C-27J Spartan a third. It's a fact that A400M will be the only aircraft capable of carrying the Defense Helicopters, the United Nations SISU vehicles and major humanitarian equipment. The Hercules is getting too small. When this is pointed out, the answer is that Hercules will never transport more material into disaster zones, or in a zone like Afghanistan. According to the proposition, such material shall be carried by road, rail or seaway. Then maybe a small and tactical plane like C-27J Spartan might have been the right one. The plane only takes 62 soldiers on board, but is fast and modern. But all these questions would have been answered by any open tendering procedure, which the Progress Party wants. It is also strange that seven professional military assessments have been carried out, all of which are recommended by the Airbus A400M. The Ministry has also not had real talks with Airbus. The information on the professional-military investigations and whether there has been no real conversation with Airbus has not been the case with Stortinget. There is at all more information in this case that has not happened to Stortinget, and it may therefore appear that the case has a very poor basis for decision. Objective information for the Storting may therefore appear to be insufficient, and the need for rapid acquisition can be described almost as irresponsible. An open tendering procedure should be possible in a short time. It will also provide greater opportunities for Norwegian industry to repurchase, while industry will also have better time to make good technological agreements. The entire purchase is otherwise based on 100 pst. repurchase and a repurchase agreement is assumed to have been signed. In practice, there will also be no significant difference between the delivery time between the different suppliers, since the latest deliveries of Hercules aircraft are unlikely to take place until 2011. So some quick acquisition will in any case not be. The security of our soldiers in Afghanistan has been used as an argument. Of course, the safety of our soldiers is important – no one will dispute it – but I don't think this flight purchase will be decisive for safety. In addition, the Progress Party considers that there is uncertainty about the Government’s conduct as regards the rules on public acquisitions, acquisitions of defence, the EEA Agreement and the EU Directives on defence procurement. We therefore have difficulties in seeing good business practices relating to acquisitions into the Defence but expect the Government to deal with adopted guidelines for this type of acquisition. In this context, the Progress Party encourages proposals for an open tendering procedure and for the promotion of a new issue for the Storting based on such a process. This setting of investments in the Defence includes other important things for the Defence, although the purchase of the aircraft is what will give the largest counts and that have gained the most general interest. The cost framework for the ‘New frigates’ project is increasing by a total of 526 million. NOK 17 404 million. kr – far above the agreed starting point – and should also include a certain examination. Other chapters that increase cost-effectively relate to Skjold-class missile torpedo boats and to air radios. The Progress Party will point out here the importance of dealing with the adopted budgets and cost frameworks. Finally, I would like to make the proposals of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e288	The representative Per Ove Wideth has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e294	In the setting and also here in the post today, the representative of the Progress Party expressed doubts as to whether there is a sustainable legal basis for the quick acquisition of new transport aircraft, without providing any particularly good justification. It could therefore be interesting to know what, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is not legally sustainable in relation to this rapid acquisition. Is the representative of Wideth able to clarify this claim in the light of the special legislation for the acquisition of this type of defence material?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e299	I can't do that in 1 minute. I have referred to rules on public acquisitions, acquisitions of defence, the EEA Agreement and the EU Directives on defence procurement, i.e. a complex that requires several more than 1 minute to explain. But I would recommend the representative to go into these directives and these processes and see what's standing there, and then he'll quickly find out that there's room for doubt here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e304	I have noticed that the representative in his speech today and the Progress Party have been concerned about whether it is such that Norwegian industry gets good enough conditions and technologically driving jobs in connection with repurchases that are established in connection with defence acquisitions. However, it is not the case that the Council of State has confirmed that it is in line with the guidelines for the purchase of defence equipment from foreign suppliers that 100 pst will now be required. the repurchase of the value of the contract in connection with the rapid acquisition of the four C-130J? What, then, stands in the way that Norwegian industry will have good conditions and technologically driving tasks in connection with this repurchasing? That's my question to the representative, Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e309	Firstly, no repurchase agreement has been signed, and that's what we're asking a big question mark. This must be done before the flight purchase is started – that is a condition. In the case of repurchasing for other Norwegian industries, it is clear that they need time to assess what is important in technology and what is important for individual operators to go into. These stakeholders will be given too little time to consider these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e319	I have to say that it is surprising and quite strange that the Progress Party, which year after year has given blank mandates for the purchase of new aircraft, says no now, when we have the opportunity to have this implemented. In the setting, the Progress Party shows that Airbus has said that they can deliver A400M in Norway as early as 2010–2011. However, the defense as a professional body says that it can be operational in 2014 at the earliest, perhaps later. What kind of basis the Progress Party relies on when the batch claims or suggests that the A400M can be both delivered and operational in 2010–2011. Isn't that also based on a quick acquisition?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e324	Firstly, this possibility of acquiring new transport aircraft has been ours for at least the last ten years. The Progress Party has proposed it, as I said in my post, time and time again, and the Labour Party has voted it down again and again. We have had more offers in the past that have been as good, perhaps even better than the offer we are now given, and then the Workers' Party has voted it down, so it surprises me that the Workers' Party has such haste right now, which they did not have at the time, and which I also pointed out. We now have more planes to choose from, and we have time to go through this properly, not through a quick acquisition and a quick transmission to Stortinget that we almost have to take on a tight arm. I think that is critical, and I think that the Labour Party must take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e329	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e332	When it comes to investment in defence, there are of course two things to ask first of all: Do they have a use, and are they relative to what we are supposed to defend? I am not going to go into any of the things related to the purchase of transport aircraft, but I am going to draw up an important element that applies to all investments to be made in the defence: all the tenderers should have equal opportunity to make a defense offer. Either a seat shoe or a fighter plane to the Defense shall have an opportunity to make an offer. It's turning things down a little bit, but at the same time we know that there can actually competition work well, just by using the administration law. Using good bidding processes establishes the competitive situation to which it is subject. We know that since this government came to power, we've done this by maybe the largest investment that one might make, in the hunting business. It was an autopilot flight purchase that was on-going. This government cleared this up, got it established so that others could make it available, and of course got to put on as point 1 that we can even extend the lifetime of the F-16 planes that we already have. Then I see that we're getting into a siding with what we're going to have as a principle, as a basis, for investment. That's where we're going to make this quick purchase, get on a siding. But I'd like to call it a siding, because the good trend in taking the financial management of Defense is there, and no government has done this better than this government has, for a long, long time. We've got an alert phone, we've seen down selections, we're taking financial management seriously, and that's what this government is going to keep going on, I'm overindulging in. And it's the most important thing for SV that we get this right. We have to be aware that in the previous period, under the previous regime, the maritime defense was actually at berth, precisely because an unbalanced investment and operation in defense. This government is honoured to have done what you can to get this done. And then we're going to ignore that sometimes you can't follow the principle as well as you can. All those who have spoken here have said that this has been a lengthy process. I have not taken with me the pile I have with the file on this. I'm not going to go into that debate, but I'm also going to learn that I believe that what we're adopting today is also the result that we saw fast when we came to power, said stop a lot of investments that we actually doubted. We also know that one has a problem with the crew in FLO Investment, one can't do enough with the good people who are left, to get good enough investment projects to decide. So there was an opportunity to jump on a quick purchase via the US Air Force. It may well be that this is the best option, which I am not able to assess today. But I think the reason why we chose it is that we also get to spend the money in the investment budget, instead of spending it in 2014, 2016, which was suggested by the defence professionals who work best on this. I also thought this should be mentioned in this debate. I think that's the main reason, and not what we've been listening to and having hours of discussions about, the different qualities of the tenderers. I also see that there has been a debate in the media. It peaks today with Today's Business, which has a comment on the various agencies that have influenced us by the big business representatives. There's no doubt that there's been a lot of activity from the different advertisers, and it's no wonder that their activity gets bigger the less they get to talk to the people they should be talking to, the people in the Ministry of Defence, to get in with their offerings in the usual way. Therefore, the activity becomes even larger ‘inside the back door’, one might say. I don't see anything wrong with it. I would like to stress that my greatest sources of information, except for what has come from the department, have been John McCain, an American senator who makes presidential elections. He's had a lot of thoughts about the plane we're going to buy. In addition, the Internet has a very large amount of information. We haven't been against the Internet in this country yet. There are other countries that are a little tired of it. But there we will immediately be able to go in and see that in defence cases, in large investments, there will always have to be great caution in relation to what the different tenderers do. It is important to have an open debate and to provide the most information possible. I believe that the Government has absolutely in place when a company invests in the defence. Then we also know when to look forward – and we have established that this is a one-time case – that the administration law should be followed. There's going to be good supply processes. If we look back, we see a result of non-compliance when it comes to this with transport flight capacity. It's a shame, of course, that what's been a long process is going to end so fast, but we're only going to have to take it forward, so that we can do a better job. I believe that all the signals that have come, including: Eva Joly, from various agencies and from various media commentaries, from state-owned corruption hunters, shows that we should be even more aware that in the future there will have to be even stricter demands for investment in the Defence. I can think of airing an idea like that maybe one should get a moratorium on let's say two to three years for people who have worked as defence officials, so that they can't go into an organization that 14 days later is going to sell defense equipment. I think we should be very careful to draw up new guidelines, so that the opinion is absolutely certain that there are things going on that are open and that there are good processes behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e351	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e354	I saw the representative Jacobsen on TV this day, and then he was interviewed on this matter. He then stated that he was comfortable with the situation we now have, and that he was comfortable with the government going in for purchase today. But I feel a little sorry for the representative Jacobsen and SV, because I don't think Jacobsen is quite comfortable with today's situation. I think he and SV might have done this a little bit differently. Now, when we think back, the Swedish authorities have stated several times that they are involved in the oil fund, and that it should not invest in companies they believe violate human rights and operate the development of weapon systems such as nuclear weapons. landmines. SV has stated this several times, and they have also stated that they do not want any further cooperation with Lockheed Martin, and that it should be boycotted by the oil fund. Then my question becomes: how can SV go in for such an investment, i.e. trade with a company that breaks all this? And what would SV have done if the SV had had a majority today? What would they have voted?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e364	The representative, Bredvold, is quite right in saying that the investment rules in the oil fund, and not least the advice we received from the ethics board, have led us to withdraw from Lockheed Martin. So we all know that this should create circles in the water. It should create water constraints in relation to the fact that not only when it relates to the portfolio of investments but also when a policy of purchasing is pursued, it should be followed by the same. I totally agree with Mr Bredvold that this should be consistent. But then all of us who have politics know a time, that it takes a while before the good intentions that one has in the Ethical Council come to government procurement policy, in this case to the Defence. It'll take a while, but I'm overconfident that it won't take very long before it might be for the Air Force to buy something from Lockheed Martin. We'll see what good case handlers do, and what we get from good advice, among other things. by the Ethical Council of the State Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e371	Bjørn Jacobsen described the pile of file documents he has in his office, and I saw the hand movement indicating that the pile was not quite small. We, who have joined the newspapers, know that the government fraction here in Stortinget has had week on week and certainly very good conditions to get involved in this matter. Now it's like the other half of the Storting has only had a few days on it. My question is whether Bjørn Jacobsen sees that there is a democratic problem that the representatives have such a different working environment. Or is it that the power now tastes so good that he no longer thinks this is so dangerous?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e378	Now I have great confidence that we have a capable opposition here in this country. They have not been shown at least in the handling of this matter. They have made a lot of positive and good contributions to the debate today. But I agree that expecting them to do it in three and a half days that I've spent up to four months on, is not reasonable when it comes to time. But when that is said, I would say that the opposition has also shown itself willing to run the case so quickly in the Storting, and I think we can be happy for that. One could, for example: have chosen another solution and postponed the matter to the fall, but it would have implications if a quick purchase at all would have been possible. I'm not going to say what SV would have done if one in the case had come up with such good suggestions from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e383	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, must be commended for being a libertarian, even in government position. He started his article by asking two questions that he would not answer, but went more to the procedure. The questions were, do we need them, and do they fit the mission we're going to carry out? Then he moved his post to the competition perspective. SV has not been so intensely involved in other cases as to introduce competition in different areas. But here you're very busy with competition. My specific question to the representative Bjørn Jacobsen is – it’s very important and some of what has been the main point here, and we’ve had to look for a little: Do we need them, and do they fit the mission we’re going to carry out?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e394	First, I want to say that a person meets the transport aircraft requirement in Norway in several ways. Tactical coverage includes: through a pool we've got together with 14 to 15 other countries. It is not bad to get such an international agreement about it. I think that makes it possible for us to save money in the future. The councils have been in favour of this with life and light. We can save money, because there's no clue that every country is going to sit on every capacity. When it comes to tactics, I will also – if that is what the Christian People's Party indicates – ask questions as to whether we really need such a capacity as this. air refuelling of aeroplanes? Do we need a capacity to enter the most war-laden areas? I'm not so sure. I don't see any need for this in the Nordic countries, nor in the future UN operations we're going to participate in. As sharp a capacity as one might add up here, we don't see from SV's side the great need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e401	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e404	This investment proposal contains a number of issues: some information that the Committee has decided to deal with for the autumn, as well as a number of investment matters that are being dealt with today. I want to focus on the important issue in the proposition, namely the transport purchases. There is also a great deal of agreement on the other issues. There is no doubt that the Storting in this case is in a very difficult position. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Right and Advance Party that the Stortinget has been given far too little time for proceedings, and that the matter is, in addition, too poorly investigated in the department. The size has not been given time to deal properly with all the elements and consequences of the case, nor has the Storting provided all the information required for the handling of such a large case. Alternatives have not been determined. A proper bidding round has not been completed. The government claims that our need for tactical air transport in the foreseeable future can only be covered by Hercules C 130J or Airbus A400M, several alternatives do not exist. Now several studies have identified the Airbus option as the best. It is not certain, therefore, that with this quick purchase, we will get the plane that best meets Norway’s needs. There is an offer from the Airbus Military to which the Government considers it to be linked to important uncertainties. Airbus Military operates with times and other prices than what the Government says are feasible. The size has neither had time nor been suitable to address such questions. And then it's unfortunate that the department has not sought to clarify these issues through more thorough discussions and discussions with Airbus Military, so that we could be clear on all the surrounding issues. The government has put the Storting under pressure to make an urgent decision that it really does not have good enough prerequisites to do. It is, after all, the Storting that has the granting authority. The size shall take the decision of reality. It's still not the government that has the granting authority, nor a majority government, although it can sometimes look like that. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should now take the opposition's objections seriously and draw the case, and then, after more thorough investigations, come back to the Stortingen with the flight purchase to the fall. When the government chooses to run the case despite objections, the Christian People's Party will vote primarily for the proposal from the Right to send the matter back. After all, we do not have a return and a better basis for the decision, we need to take a real stand today. The Christian People's Party believes that the premises made by the Government mean that we are dubious to vote subsidiaryly for the Government's position. The Christian People's Party strongly focuses on the security of our soldiers in Afghanistan. We have just had a critical situation in which the lack of Norwegian surgical response could create a crisis situation. We can't stand any more such events based on a lack of preparedness. Therefore, despite the lack of investigation, we will vote for the purchase today. When the government informs us that Norway is in practice without operational availability of tactical transport aircraft capacity, and that it goes beyond the safety level of our soldiers out, it gives premise that we cannot oversample and that we cannot ignore. It is alarming that the Storting has been placed in such a position that we need to make a decision on an unsatisfactory basis and that we need to make a decision while there is uncertainty about all alternatives. However, the Christian People's Party has no other option than to take over the premises imposed by the Government and trust them. Subject to the reservations I have now raised about any lack of full information, the Christian People's Party supports the quick purchase of Hercules C 130J subsidiary. Then we have noticed that it is said that it does not cause problems to phase in so much expenditure over so short a time and so fast. This can only mean that there are relatively large unsponsored amounts in the investment budgets in the next few years, as is the case with the Right. has been highlighted in the configuration. It might have been interesting to hear the Minister of Defence's comment on this observation. So just briefly, since I took it up in a line change with the Workers' Party's spokeswoman, this which is in the note from the position that previous governments should have seen the picture in terms of what could happen. If you look at it historically, many previous governments might have noticed that we were going to replace our transport planes once in the future. There was a race that went in the direction of replacing the outer wings of the planes and getting new avionics. It is the government that has then been given the responsibility to implement this. And when you didn't know six months ago that there were problems with the repair that was going to happen, it doesn't matter in the setting to owe to previous governments. I want to refer to the proposals that we are co-sponsors of, and I will finally recommend the Stortinget to vote for the purchase of new transport aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e427	Has the representative Jan Sahl made proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e430	I just referred to the proposals that we want to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e435	The representative referred to the proposals. - It's okay. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e440	The proposition shows that Norway currently does not have a real tactical transport aeroplane capacity, due to the state of our old transport aircraft. The transport into and out of Afghanistan is currently being carried out on leased civil charter aircraft. Transport within Afghanistan is carried out on a civil passenger aircraft and accommodation is carried out on military transport aircraft of other countries participating in the ISAF air transport system. I heard the representative Sahl say that the Christian People's Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal for purchase. But this really means a postponement. Does not the Christian People's Party see the importance of the rapid acquisition of new transport aircraft – to ensure that our soldiers are as effective as possible and to ensure a future humanitarian response? If not, what is the Christian People's Party's solution to these common challenges? That's now the contract has to be signed – if we're going to buy planes quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e450	That is exactly what is happening for the Christian People's Party: we have been put in a situation where we have had to take responsibility for such a large purchase in record time – without having received a full investigation of the matter. That's what we're asking questions about. We assume that what the Government of the Proposition has as the basis for the flight purchase is correct. That means that in order to ensure the safety of Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan, this purchase must take place quickly. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will vote subsidiaryly – when we are put under that pressure – for us to buy the planes. But we saw a different situation, namely that we had got the case on the table earlier, that the Storting had been able to handle it in a good way, and that all the information had been in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e459	It is not really possible for the Christian People's Party to be co-sponsors of a proposal, all the time when the party is not represented in the defence committee. But after hearing Sahl's comments, we have at least made it clear that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the Right's proposal during the voting today. The debate today and the committee setting show that there are different opinions and different opinions about the rapid acquisition of new transport aircraft. However, I think there is a point that, in addition to the government and defence minister's, there is a unique professional-military recommendation from the Defence Chief, from the Air Force Inspector General, GIL, and from the Chief FLO, the Defence Logistics Organisation, on a rapid acquisition – due to an urgent need – of new transport aircraft. Then we are essentially left with the following question: Does the Christian People's Party believe that the Minister of Defence and the leadership of the defence operate with what we can almost call deliberately manipulation towards the Storting regarding the proposal to quickly procure transport aircraft, which some speakers in today's debate have suggested between the lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e468	No, not at all. The Christian People's Party has great confidence in the information that the Defense has included in this case. And the Christian People's Party has never spoken against that we need new transport planes. There was a race to get new transport planes. It was reported by the Government when the budget was last autumn, that the work on repairing our transport aircraft was well under way, and that it went so far. And then all of a sudden – with a very short treatment period in Stortinget – we are told that we are now adding previous plans dead and going to the quick purchase of transport aircraft. It's the process that makes us primarily want to vote for a postponement of the case and get it investigated. But when a majority wants to deal with the matter today, we will vote in favour – mainly because of the security of our soldiers in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e477	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e480	I want to show that the purpose of the proposition is to obtain the approval of the Stortinge for two new property, construction and civil engineering projects, namely the multipurpose hall at Setermoen garrison and the settlements at Rena clay. Furthermore, two new material projects — new target missiles and new C-130J Hercules transport aircraft respectively — are approved. An amended cost framework is also proposed for projects concerning new facilities for the rescue helicopter service in Bodø and the acquisition of satellite communications for frigates and MTB boats. In addition, there are some information. I am also pleased that the review of the down-and-out processes in the Defence will be dealt with in depth, as a separate matter, at a later stage. As far as construction projects are concerned, I would like to mention that it is important that Østerdalen garrison – as one of the two centres of gravity in the Army – is given an extension of the belaying capacity in Rena clay. Recruitment to Defense and maintaining the good skills we have there are important. It is natural that we have good belaying capacities both inside and outside Rena clay. The defence must enable those who wish to do so to settle with the family in the municipality in which they have their main place of work. The case that has of course received the most attention in the proposition is the approval of the material project C-130J. I will therefore add some comments to that. The aim of the Central Party’s defence, security and preparedness policy is to secure the Government of the People’s Republic, asserted Norwegian sovereignty and contribute to ensuring international stability. Norway must have an independent defence with components from all arms, both on land, in air and at sea. In the Central Party, we have had discussions about the need for the acquisition of new transport aircraft, as our existing Hercules C-130H is approaching its last operational year of life. In our assessment, there have been two things that have been very important to us. One has been that we need our own national tactical transport aircraft capacity. Although we lease strategic transport aircraft capacity, we have considered it necessary to own our own tactical transport aircraft capacity in order to meet our own military needs in addition to civilian needs for such capabilities. The second thing that has been a topic with us is that we need to have the best possible security for our forces in Afghanistan. We need to solve this in cooperation with our partners in NATO. In addition, we need to be able to set up our own tactical flight capacity for our international operations in Afghanistan or elsewhere if this is necessary. In the Central Party, we have discussed both the rental and upgrade of aircraft towards the fast-buying offer from the Americans. With us, as we know through the media, it's also been different assessments of what's the best solution now. Nevertheless, we will support the proposals in the proposal. We are concerned that, in the future, we need to redefine the concept of investment, so that investments, in addition to the purchase of equipment, also include the training and training of those to use and operate the equipment. In future, the costs of this must be part of the decision-making basis for the adoption of investments. I would like to point out that, in connection with this purchase, an external quality assurance of the project has been carried out in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance for a so-called simplified generation solution. I am pleased that the Ministry of Defence in its implementation mission for Defence will follow up the uncertainty mitigation measures recommended by external quality assurance. These measures include, inter alia: the establishment of a comprehensive project organisation and a concrete governance document with a progress plan for the implementation phase in accordance with the normal standard for large-scale government projects. It is also essential to explain how the project objectives relate to self-protection, etc. can be fully met in the future so that our transport aircraft can participate in any type of operation without restriction. Finally, I would like to point out that in line with the guidelines for the purchase of defence equipment from foreign suppliers, it will be required to buy back 100 pst. the value of the contract for the rapid acquisition of the four C-130J transport aeroplanes. I am very pleased with that. I hope that the repurchases negotiated will contribute to the development of the Norwegian defence industry, with ring-effects for the civil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e509	In the course of previous military procurement, the Centre Party has always been very concerned with repurchase. I'm sure they are this time, too. However, what concerns both engineering organisations, research communities and industry is that this buy-back can be a volume purchase rather than high tech. A good example of this is JSF and British participation in that project, although it is a development project. The air purchase agreement must be signed before the repurchase agreement is concluded. Then the question is, does the Senterpartie not worry that there is no repurchase agreement before signing the contract for the purchase of the flight?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e516	I would like to insist on what Mr Skumsvoll also stressed that it has always been important for the Central Party with proper repurchase agreements in defence acquisitions. Not least we're concerned about it too in this case. We are concerned that it will help to further develop the Norwegian defence industry, and we are concerned that it will help to further develop Norwegian industry through button shooting from the defence industry. In this situation that we now have, the Ministry of Defence has assured the Minister of Defence that 100 pst will be demanded. repurchase. We take that insurance with us, and we will follow it up in the further work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e523	The United States has a number of Hercules planes. Now they're going to upgrade 500 of these planes. These Hercules planes are older than the Norwegians, they've gone a lot longer, so they've had longer flight time, and they're generally worse off than the Norwegians. The United States chooses to extend these planes for life. This could perhaps be done with the Norwegians as well, and in that way perhaps bought more time to make the right decision, so Norway had the time and opportunity to buy the plane that Norway needs. It's not certain it's Hercules. All of the reports that the defense has received say that Airbus is the right plane for Norway. Doesn't the Centre Party feel a little uncomfortable, in line with SV – as I interpret it – that you haven't had more time to make the right decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e530	The centre batch has always been a supporter of purchasing new transport aircraft. Our discussion has focused on whether we are going to carry out an ordinary procurement process with tenders and competition, or whether we have to approve a quick purchase, which we are discussing today, and which the representative Bredvold also explains in the question. What has been essential for us has been to have good enough quality assurance in the work that takes place around larger acquisitions in the Defence. We are therefore pleased that there is now a premise in the conclusion of the contract to establish an integrated and well-defined project organisation, and that a governance document is to be established with a progress plan that is common to large projects. Furthermore, we are pleased to see how the project objectives in terms of self-protection can be fully achieved in the future. It has been very important for us to take with us. Then we would have liked better time. I'd like to underline that. It's been part of the discussion in the Center Party Group. But when there were questions about the security of the soldiers in Afghanistan, it weighed more heavily than the discussion about time to ordinary process. Then we fell to the position that we're now going to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e539	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e543	We have a comprehensive attitude. It is about many important measures for defence. The debate on new transport aircraft is rightly concentrated. I want to make one point at today's attitude that illustrates something I'm coming back to, namely, when we're going through investments in areas other than aviation, we see that being a prophet – or being precise – about how investment costs can run in large defence projects, that's not easy. And I'm not saying it any other way than that it's not easy. As the left approaches the matter we are dealing with now, we have three basic assumptions. Point 1: We want new transport planes. However, point 2: We have gradually come to a surprise – and I cannot express it in any other way – not in relation to whether the defence has critical competence, but in relation to whether the defence has sufficient critical competence to assess at the same time many demanding, ongoing investments. I need to say it this way, and I'm not saying it because I don't believe that the sitting management is trying to manage its pound wisely, because I'm convinced that it does. I have even – based on long life experience in different arenas – come to the conclusion that in this case there may be a gap, because one has free investment that combines that one can do something that the Government believes is right. But I want to leave it – beyond this debate – a wonder and a question of sufficient competence, not if there are good people, but whether there are many enough good people. That is an important question, because the defence has been through incredibly demanding and important changes. They've had the majority of the Storing behind them. But I think it's okay to ask that question. With regard to the situation in Afghanistan, I have to say the following: I want to start with the statements made by the current government, and not least by the Chief of Defence, that soldiers should be safe in Afghanistan, there must be civil effort in the country that makes the civilian population in Afghanistan see that soldiers fight for them from the outside, see what it is going to be after. Some of what really bothered me deeply — not because the Norwegian government is not doing it — is the total lack of international coordination and efforts to ensure that civil structures are built. I don't use the term 'civil society' because then we're talking about non-governmental organisations, and it's not transferable. But ‘sivile structures’ are perhaps the structures that good soldiers at best know what is when they drill a well while ensuring an area, that is, a very important competence that many people have, as we know that Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan have, and that I believe – built on a large scale – is quite crucial. We see it very strongly and clearly in the debate that has not been the subject here, between who is now receiving the income of opium poppies, and what are alternative incomes. I am absolutely convinced that if we do not bring this under control, the security of very many very uncertain people in Afghanistan. The second point that is far on the way – or quite on the way – is my impression after reading the available, open sources I can read as a Norwegian citizen, and after talking to defence politicians in a series of European countries, is how to gradually create a patchwork of ties across and across how military forces act in Afghanistan. We know parts of that debate in Norway, and I'm not going to pursue it here. But when you, for example, hear that German helicopters are moving German soldiers, you are near a carpet that becomes quite demanding. It's demanding. In any case, in those areas where it may be easier than in other areas to soften this, one should try to do so. I'll say it that way. I am absolutely convinced that our Minister of Defense is doing a job to get to it, but I would like to say it that way. And I'm not saying it any other way than that I think this is very important. When we get to the point of today, as a politician, I have – I kept saying – a long time at sea a certain sympathy for a majority government to make progress on the internal path. I understand. I even understand how minority governments have done it. That is why I also understand why the majority government needs it. But I fully agree with the representative Petersen that then time can be out of control. It may even become so scarce that others who are going to be involved and contribute to what everyone wants, namely the widest possible collection of defence policy tasks, are given an almost impossible task. In addition, I represent a party that is not on the Defence Committee, and there are some documents that are graduated and go to the committee that I don't get, so I have to fall back on my public knowledge and public awareness after working on defence issues for over 25 years. That's the public eye and the general knowledge I have to use today, too, when I'm going to review the various proposals on behalf of the party I represent. That insight has taught me that heavy investments that have to do with the future should be made properly and thoroughly. It may well be that there are incredibly intelligent improvisations. I don't want to reject it. I don't even want to deny the possibility that the defense in a slot has managed to get an excellent deal about the planes that are there now, but I'm not sure. Because I'm not sure of that, I don't want to deviate from the principle that heavy investments that will last for a few years must be created properly and tidy processes around. Secondly, I am absolutely convinced of the following: if NATO in Afghanistan is based on a lack of transport aircraft, NATO is in a deeper crisis than I am so far in some form that citizens of this country have had insight. If logistics, moving someone from A to B in Afghanistan, is the real, critical flaw, NATO is in a bigger crisis as an organization than I've had insight into. I have come to realize that it is very difficult and demanding to get different countries – and we stay out of this room, because here we have done so far what we are going to do with each other – to set up. And I agree that when Norway joins 700 soldiers, it is respectable in every respect, even when the special forces are assessed as the government has done. But the insight you get by talking to defence politicians from other European countries makes it quite clumsy about how detailed management prevents – we should call it – flexibility from what can be called technical assistance. I understand that it can be a difficult debate about who could be at risk of being killed in conflict, but having that kind of bond on technical assistance is beyond my ability to understand. There should be something that we can solve for, and that we can do something about. I have thus come to the following conclusion on behalf of the Left: I find it all in all right to vote in favour of the postponement proposal promoted by the Right, which has been endorsed here by the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. I have then come to the conclusion that I cannot vote in favour of the proposed allocation, but will vote in favour of a full bidding round, because I am convinced that when the defence is to bet on investments, they must be assessed and evaluated as best they can. I hear that earlier in the debate it has been said that when you buy defence efforts, you are exposed to lobbying. I'm familiar with that, I've had an earlier role in life when someone tried to "lob" in relation to rescue helicopters. It has a significant intensity. I've learned how to fight, how to keep the lobbyists at the distance they're actually supposed to be at, how wise the government is talking to lobbyists, and that those who are going to have a star in the book to talk to the council don't get a star in the book. So I have no naivety to lobbyists. I also have no naivety as to how they appear, and how it can be done in many areas. I don't have enough imagination to understand all the lobbyism in the area of Defense. I guess it's no less advanced than it's on the purchase of rescue helicopters. In other words, I expect it to be significant, because it is about large investments and a lot of progress. It is quite legitimate that some ‘lobbers’, but it is also perfectly legitimate that they are not naive but professional in dealing with it. The fact that it happens, I take for granted, and having a relationship of consciousness with that, I also take for granted, that's a necessity. I am in that situation that I am convinced that the Minister of Defense and the Defence Department, given what I started by saying in the beginning about the demanding thing about looking in the glass ball in relation to investment, trying to make it optimal out of the situation. I am absolutely convinced of that. However, I have come to the conclusion, on the basis of what I have reasoned, that if I want to mark where I believe the course will go – not least because we are now in front of a new long-term plan for the defence, with which it is to be worked – I cannot sit here and vote for something that I believe is across all the principles that I will try to cooperate on next round. Because that's what I'm really interested in. Then I have to break some rules of the game that will be fundamental to that cooperation. That means a tendering round. Secondly, from my general understanding as a Norwegian citizen, based on reading what I can from internationally available publications, I am convinced that the basic security situation in Afghanistan goes far beyond technical assistance by moving forces from a to b. It is linked to relations that I have previously praised from this pulpit, and I would like to repeat it, where both the Norwegian government and Norwegian officers – and the head of defence are among them – have determined in an incredibly clear way what is needed to give a meaningful civil goal for what to do, and what to use military power to do. I have no reason to criticize the Norwegian Government for that, because I am convinced that it is actually doing what it can. But I have a deep wonder about the lack of obligatory thinking throughout the overall NATO cooperation in this regard. Then I believe that, in relation to what NATO is going to do in Afghanistan, it must be possible to begin moving on to some of the clauses relating to the use of effort, technical assistance, etc. That must be possible. If that's not possible, we've made so many bonds that it's almost hard to handle it. I have chosen to address a major topic that goes beyond this debate: how are we sure that the defence always has good competence to handle not only one, but many demanding investments at the same time? I have also addressed the issue of what is the fundamental concern about the security situation in Afghanistan. Then I have reached the conclusions I have presented. I can't stand here, refer to, say and believe that some of those who do the job don't do the job. I'm assuming they're doing the job. I'm actually assuming that they're doing their job, but I have to say, just like the representative Petersen, that we're going to go into a debate about a possible defence settlement based on the fact that there's a job done by the head of defence in a politically impaired selection, there must be some basic rules. Sometimes I have the feeling that I'm almost in a kind of Western movie, in what in the Western movie is called 'hotgun marriage', i.e. that the bride's father comes to the groom and says, "Are you going to marry the girl?" Haila's excited. – I don’t like the Western edition, nor the Norwegian Storing’s edition, and I take the consequence of it at the vote that comes later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e584	As the Left is not in the Committee, I was actually very excited about what the Left's decision was in this matter, and what the Left would vote for. I have to say that it is with great wonder that I hear what the representative Dørum says about them – when the return proposal falls, which after all was a proposal that could mean some postponement in time – they will not at all go for the acquisition of new transport aircraft now, but will choose a variant that can allow us to wait for three to four years before we get tactical planes that can take care of the security our soldiers are entitled to in Afghanistan. Then it's not useful to talk about that it's NATO or something else that makes you push it in front of you. Does the representative, in fact, believe that our soldiers should remain in second row in the event of a possible evacuation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e593	I think it's a bold question. In fact, the left has tried to support under the existing government, which, despite internal tensions, has tried to ensure that our forces are available where necessary in Afghanistan. However, since the representative is in cash, the representative must receive a cash reply. If the sitting government solves its internal tensions, so that Norwegian forces can be deployed in Afghanistan where it is militaryly correct and not just where it is political opportunity, it will probably give more impact to NATO as a whole in Afghanistan than it is. However, the Left has chosen to try to help make that situation the best possible, including: for the Minister of Defence. I thought the representative Eye would appreciate it. Just because we've done it, knowing that the government has internal tensions, we haven't tried to dig in it. We have tried to contribute to the best possible solution. I feel that the government has also bit by bit done such a job. Then I think it is a good idea to be accused of not thinking about safety. The government can start at its own table by doing something about it. The left is happy to support it when we get that far, and you can be absolutely sure that freer use of military forces gets the full support of the Left in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e600	The representative Dørum raised questions about competence or lack of such competence. In addition to the Government and the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Defence, the Director-General of the Air Force and the Head of the FLO have made a clear technical recommendation that there is an urgent need for new transport aircraft. They therefore recommend the rapid acquisition of these aeroplanes. Does not the representative of Dørum trust the advice of the professional soldiers in this matter, that it is urgent with a flight purchase? To what extent does the Left believe that consideration should be given to the professional military recommendations in this matter? If you don't want to take into account the professional military recommendations, who are you supposed to listen to?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e609	I am absolutely sure, as I said in my speech, that both professional and political authorities, given the situation we have – I tried to analyse the possibility of being good enough to hold many investment projects at the same time – then it gives the advice that, in the current situation, is the best possible. It's my private hypothesis that the government right now has free budgetary resources, and then it's good to use such free budgetary resources, because you know that budgetary resources don't always come back. Anyone who's been in a government conference knows that. Wise people, whether they're wearing stars on their shoulders, or they're chosen by the citizens, understand the practical situation and at the same time try to make something out of it. I then allow myself to use my life experience not to dispute these people's wisdom or loyalty to the system they are set to serve, but to try to define the framework conditions around it. I was very ready to say that to go into something that is far-reaching, namely a new defence plan, we need to have different framework conditions. That's why I vote as I do. And then I've been very clear about what I think is the most important thing for the security situation in Afghanistan. It is my answer to the representative who asks me the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e620	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e623	In the proposal under consideration here today, the government has presented proposals for a number of important investments to the Defence Agency. The proposals contribute to the implementation of the structure adopted by the Stortinges on the current long-term defence plan. The two new projects for investment in properties, construction and construction continue to focus on locating the Army's operations around the garrisons of Inner Troms and the Østerdalen, and they support the construction of the Army, which takes place with the greatest gravity in the north. The investments in the inner Troms garrison are thus important for the Northern Region of the Government. The acquisition of satellite communications for frigates and missile torpedo boats provides these vessels with safer and more robust connections for use in all operating areas, not least in demanding conditions in our northernmost waters and operations outside our vicinity. It is important for me to stress that the proposed increase in the cost framework is not to be seen as an excess of costs, but rather as a result of an additional acquisition to adapt the frigates to new operational requirements. The acquisition of the frigates was also previously announced to Stortinget. The project for the acquisition of target missiles, as well as the provision of frigates and missile torpedo boats with powerful weapon systems, will be of great importance for the Norwegian industry. The project will ensure high-tech jobs, primarily in the Kongsberg area. The rescue helicopter service is provided through the proposal in the proposal to provide new functional premises at Bodø Main Aviation Station that meet health, environmental and safety requirements. I note with satisfaction that a unanimous committee joins these proposals in the proposition. With regard to the Government’s proposal for the acquisition of C-130J Hercule’s transport aircraft, there has been a significant commitment and not least strong opinions about the acquisition. The acquisition of C-130J Hercule's transport aircraft is of great importance for the national and international execution of the defence's various tasks, both in civil and military terms. There are two basic aspects that lie behind the Government's proposal to acquire four new transport aircraft now. One is the safety of personnel, and the other, not least as a result of the first, is the need to have an available operational flight capacity as soon as possible. These two considerations are best addressed by making a so-called rapid acquisition. That's the situation we're actually in, which is crucial, not how we would prefer to do it if we could allow ourselves to wait. Since the government submitted its budget for 2007, we have gained new knowledge about the state and availability of our current transport aircraft. The rapporteur asked precisely this, if the statement about what we expected of the planes after the upgrade was wrong, when the proposition was written. I would like to refer to the information I gave myself to the Defence Committee during the hearing on the budget last October, where I informed that it was exposed to corrosion by wing changes, and where I also announced that the Government had to decide what to do next with the planes. As regards the question of why not the defence has performed avionic cup upgrade, I would say that with regard to wing changes, it was absolutely necessary to ease the flight restrictions imposed in 2005. The avionic cup upgrade was not thought to start. They worked on it from January to December 2006. What also came to knowledge last fall was that even if you were to do a heavy, time-consuming and complicated avionic cup upgrade, we would not get a greater availability on the planes than about. 50 pst., because we still operated on 40-year-old planes. That's why the government decided to consider a quick acquisition, possibly the rental of new aircraft. On this basis, we had to reconsider what we had hoped for first, namely that these planes could still meet our needs for years to come. This is also a consequence of not having – and this does not apply to one government, but many governments over a long period of time – done some of the major updates with our planes. That's why we have the situation we have today. As a result, the Government has assessed what can remedy the situation as quickly as possible. The assessments that have been made show that it is to acquire C-130J Hercule's transport aircraft now, by the U.S. Air Force offering to take over aircraft that are already in order. No alternative can give us transport planes faster than this, and probably not more reasonable either. Then I just want to refer to the time aspect, as someone has shown, as we referred it to it at the hearing. That's how this offer gives us the first transport plane in December 2008, and we get the second one at the beginning of 2009. This means that in mid-2009 we could operate on two transport aircraft, either in Norway or for example. in Afghanistan or elsewhere where appropriate. The last two planes we'll get in 2010, and can, as we say, be fully operational in 2011. In the case of A400M, which has been referred to by several speakers here, that plane is actually not on the wings yet. This will be the earliest in 2010 and would be a normal acquisition with normal bidding round, the Defense would have had new transport aircraft in the period 2014–2016 at the earliest, because the process is extensive, and also because the training is extensive. When we can become operational as early as 2009, it's because we can do the training in the period until we get the first plane. We have an agreement and opportunities for that with several countries that have C-130J. I just want to comment a little bit that it has been a quick process. Yes, it's been a quick process. In fact, in January, we started contacting others who had ordered aircraft. In March, we received an offer from the Americans, and we were able to make a solution and an impact assessment. In fact, it was not possible to launch an impact assessment until we had something concrete to determine. That is why we started that process in March, and the impact assessment was completed the day before this matter went to the Council of State and was left to Stortinget, on 25 May this year. I also want to remind those who have referred to the rapid process here that six investigations were actually carried out in the last growing period in the case of transport aircraft – six investigations in four years. I assume that those investigations were carried out because you were concerned about the transport aircraft situation. These conclusions were referred – they are available in writing – to the Defence Committee, and the investigations carried out show that there were two types of aircraft that would satisfy the defence's need for tactical transport aircraft. It was C-130J, and it was A400M. But it didn't benefit us to recommend the A400M when the plane is actually not on the wings. The transport plane we now recommend, and for which the Government has gone in, will give us the tactical capacity we need. The needs for strategic air capacity are resolved in other ways, and, as I said, the investigations that have been carried out in the past also support this. The government of course requires repurchase for this acquisition, and this is also accepted by the supplier, and we have been given a guarantee about it. The substance of the repurchase agreement is already being elaborated between the parties. Even in a rapid acquisition that the Government is now proposing, we have to base, for a short period of time, on large parts of our transport aircraft needs on commercial solutions and the use of apartment facilities for the capacity of allied nations. This is a solution that, for many reasons, will not be sustainable in the long term, not least because our allies also have shortcomings in this area. I must also comment on the posts of the representative Dørum. He's surprised by NATO's scarcity of planes. Yes, in fact, there is a shortage of flight capacity in Afghanistan. There is not much available flight capacity, so you are particularly vulnerable if you cannot support your own soldiers. So for us who now have soldiers in three different places in Afghanistan, with great distances between them, air transport is the only option. Therefore, in the view of the Government, it is necessary to make a rapid acquisition in order to ensure the necessary available operational flight capacity as soon as possible. I am therefore pleased with the committee's recommendation on the matter, and also that the Right and Christian People's Party subsidiaryly supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e675	I hear the Council of State's time aspect around the generation. She probably means what she says, I trust it, of course. I have my doubts as to whether it will last, but it will eventually show. That's not the question. The proposal and the hearing on 8 June still show that it is for the sake of the safety of our soldiers in Afghanistan that we need new transport aircraft. The party of progress is, of course, very concerned with the security of Norwegian soldiers, no matter where they are in the world. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: what concrete action is now being taken to improve the safety of Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan until new, operational and capable transport aircraft are in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e684	The representative is very well known that in the case of transport within Afghanistan for Norwegian soldiers, it operates on a regular plane. I would like to say that we are carefully assessing the safety situation. Until now, it has been considered acceptable to use this aeroplane. But, as I said, that situation is carefully assessed. The fact that we use ordinary aircraft and that the security situation can get worse is exactly why we have to act now. In fact, we can't afford to wait for many, many years for new planes. That's why we recommend this quick acquisition, so that we can get them as fast as possible. I also want to say that I think it would be easier to get help from our allies if we needed it, because at least we're doing what we can to get us new military planes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e692	Two questions: The main spokeswoman of the Labour Party, Signe Øye, was very clear on the desire to have a broad defence policy consensus in the Stortinget. I agree with that, and would like to ask if the Council shares that view. When I ask, it's because establishing such an agreement means taking and giving, and the question is therefore whether the Council of State will be prepared to change the Government's plan regarding the long-term programme during the course of the process here in Stortinget. My second question concerns the previous budget proposal, where it says about the upgrade of the existing aeroplanes that they will now be able to carry out all types of tasks again until 2012-2015. According to what the Council of State has told us a number of times about the time it takes to upgrade the avionics, which is 45 months, the question is: Was this the statement in St. prp? No 1 ever a realistic statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e699	First of all, I have to say that when it comes to changing the government's arrangements, I have not experienced so much in this period that there has been a particular disagreement about defence policy. I can't kind of foreshadow what it would be necessary to change. But I want to say that I'm very concerned that we're going to have a broad settlement on defence and security policy, because it serves the country, and it also serves the defense. As far as the second question, about realism, is enough, as I pointed out many times during the hearing, and as I also tried to repeat now, we came to new knowledge, because some countries had started to avionic update their planes during the fall. It was also such that we could not predict that it was rust or corrosion, when we started changing wings. We were then put in a very difficult situation and so that even if we spent a lot of time updating avionics – and then we would at least have no capacity available – we would not get more than approx. 50 pst. availability on the planes, and it was too little for us to be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e706	The focus of the Christian People's Party on this matter, which also leads to a subsidiary vote for what the Government recommends here, is security. I am pleased that the Minister here stresses, also on questions from the representative of the Progress Party, that security has been ensured already today, and that we need to increase flight capacity in order to safeguard it in the future under the tense situation that is. My question goes to the Airbus Military and what's been going on around them. As far as I can see from the hearing, and what I have been able to read, there is uncertainty about the extent to which there have been talks with Airbus Military, and what the promises that have come from there are really going on. Among other things, claimed that in that case we got the first plane from there, while it was informed in the hearing that it was about aircraft no. 40, possibly coming to Norway. Could the minister say a little bit more about the Airbus Military process?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e713	In the case of Airbus, they made an offer. There was also at least one meeting in the department with Airbus. What was the problem with Airbus was that in the case of their aircraft, as I also said, the first plane would be finished by 2010. It was not satisfactory for the Norwegian defence for a rapid acquisition. If we had only chosen Airbus, it meant that we had to go to a quick acquisition of Airbus. If we had received one of the earliest aircraft, which would not in any way be advisable for a small country, one would have training that might take up to two years – and still with a quick acquisition, we would be in 2012, 2013. These are theoretical numbers. The recognition that Airbus has not yet arrived on the wings was absolutely decisive for the rapid acquisition of C-130J Hercules and no other aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e720	In recent talks with defence politicians from a series of NATO countries in Europe, among others. members of the UK House of Commons Defence Committee, who have recently also visited British forces in Afghanistan, appear to be quite a complex picture of what is security and threat. One of the things that emerges is different types of bonds that exist within NATO cooperation in Afghanistan at different levels and in different ways. I do not want to raise the question that comes now in any strange debate, but would like to ask the Minister of Defence the question: what is being done and how does she perceive the move to soften in such conditions within the NATO Alliance's joint effort in Afghanistan? I ask that question simply because I have received this as a concern from people who share the concern that I also perceive that the Council of State had in its recent intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e725	It's clear that when we have 700 soldiers in Afghanistan, it's taking care of their security our foremost thought and our greatest concern, really, and what we're concerned about. And as I say, we're following the security situation continuously. With regard to the bonds that many countries have on their soldiers, there can be complications for the operation, so that there's a good enough picture of the representative of Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e732	Recently, at the latest yesterday, we have experienced that Norwegian soldiers have been attacked and have been wounded and injured in fighting in Afghanistan. In view of this, I would like to ask the Council of State: is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that Norway does not have — and will not be able to carry the new aircraft — its own capacity to transport helicopters for the medical evacuation of Norwegian forces in connection with foreign missions? We heard the same meeting that the representative of Dørum talked about, that German helicopters can only be used for own soldiers, and we cooperate a lot with German forces in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e739	It is not right that German transport planes or helicopters will not transport Norwegian soldiers. They do in the case of medical evacuation. It is precisely those who are responsible for the medical evacuation, for example. now in Meymaneh, and in the north area in general. So they do. But when we're busy getting our own flight capacity, it's precisely because the flight capacity is limited, and if you're engaged in missions elsewhere, it'll of course take longer before the planes arrive. I also want to remind the Storting that it was actually not until this government joined, that you got your own flight capacity and air transport capability in Afghanistan, so at least we've done something about a reinforcement on that plane that we're flying there. But we see that the situation can change, and that's why it's so important that we now get new military planes that have the necessary protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e746	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e749	The debate and the vote show that there are different opinions and perceptions about the rapid acquisition of new transport aircraft. So far in the debate, there has been a lot of focus on the process and procedure, and less on the actual realities of the matter and what is the real situation we are facing. Let me first remind the Stortinget that, in addition to the recommendation of the Minister of Defence and the Government, there is a unique professional military recommendation from the Chief of Defence, from the Chief of Air Force and from the Head of the FLO – there is an urgent need for new transport aircraft, and they therefore recommend the rapid acquisition of this capacity. Then we are left with the following question: Driver the Minister of Defense and the Armed Forces' leadership with a deliberate manipulation towards Stortinget with the proposal and the need to quickly procure transport aircraft, as the opposition suggests between the lines? Or is it so uncomplicated that the Minister of Defence and the leadership of the defence are actually telling the truth when they say that there is an urgent need for new transport aircraft, and therefore proposes to rapidly deploy this capacity? For me and the Workers' Party, the answer is simple. We choose to believe in the Minister of Defence and the leadership of the Defence. I ask, if we're not going to be able to trust the Department and the Defence Management on such a difficult question, who are we going to trust? Let me therefore repeat that the Workers' Party believes that Norway and the Defence have a need to dispose of tactical transport aircraft capacity both today and for the future. We therefore note with concern the information provided by the Ministry of Defence that Norway is currently in practice without operationally available tactical air transport capacity. Today's 40-year-old Hercules aircraft are not suitable for operations in war zones, even after completion of the upgrade. What is crucial for the Workers' Party is that the solution of quick purchase is the one that gets the fastest transport aircraft available for our international operations, and thereby the best possible security for our soldiers. What we are now caught in can best be described as a collective failure sin, by the fact that former governments, and I underline governments, and the defense has not prioritised the follow-up of our national tactical transport fleet as should be done. Therefore, there is respect for this government taking responsibility and cutting through on this important issue. In the view of the Workers' Party, the need for new tactical transport aircraft is undeniable. In our view, a normal acquisition, which would give competition between the relevant operators of aircraft, would initially be preferable. However, this must be weighed against the fact that Norway is currently without a real tactical flight capacity, while there is an increasing need to have such aeroplanes available to take care of the safety of our forces out in international operations. The intention to ensure the safety of Norwegian personnel, thereby ensuring as quickly as possible the availability of tactical flight capacity for international missions, means that the Workers' Party supports the proposal for the rapid acquisition of four new C-130J transport aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e770	For most businesses, 300 million. I spent a lot of money. Even more money is if you spend the money on something you don't really need, or let's say that: if you have a used car and you want to deliver it in return for a new one, it's very bad money to cost a lot of money, maybe even more money than you get in return for it. That's what the government has done to our transport planes. They've repaired for 300 million. NOK and at the same time decided to buy four new aircraft for almost NOK 4 billion. Buying transport aircraft is okay, but doing it almost simultaneously to repair the old for 300 million. kr is a strange decision. But what's strangest, or maybe worst, is the way this is done. A trade of this magnitude, without tenders, does not belong anywhere. When we buy equipment – in this case four transport aircraft – we will spend the time we need when we are going to buy. We're going to buy what the plane Norway needs, we're going to spend time on good repurchase agreements, and we're also going to know what to do with the equipment we have. In the eyes of the Progress Party, none of this is in order, and that's why we say no to the flight purchase today – not because we don't want new planes, because we do. That is why, over several years, the Progress Party has made proposals for purchases, but no one voted in favour. What about the situation that has changed until today? Our planes are getting older, but if they're 40 or 35 years old, there's no big difference. Upgrade is not a problem. In the United States, U.S. Air Force upgrades 500 Hercules aircraft. Most of them are older than Norwegians, they have flown a lot more than Norwegians, and they are much worse off than Norwegians. So they've chosen to extend their flight life. Then it's very strange that Norway can't do that with its six planes, i.e., 494 fewer than the US lifetime extensions. Instead, the government claims that we have to make an urgent purchase – understand who can! I think the United States, in line with Norway, will have as good a defense as possible in every way. They don't make any hasty purchases. Another thing that disturbs us in the Progress Party is why we have to buy the type of aircraft we're doing, when everyone – I repeat all – investigates in the Defense in recent years, concludes that Airbus A400M should become Norway's new military transport aircraft. However, the government is in favour of the urgent purchase of four aircraft to nearly NOK 4 billion, which is not really suitable for the Norwegian defence. Some of the differences that can be mentioned include: Airbus loads 37 000 kg, against Hercules 19 000 kg. Airbus has a range of 6,300 km, towards Hercules at 3,300 km. In addition, Airbus is cheaper. In addition, Airbus Norway guarantees full operational flight capacity until the new Airbus aeroplanes are ready. It might seem as early as the new Hercules planes. Then I don't understand why we need an urgent purchase. If it was so urgent, the government parties would support the proposals of the Advance Party on air purchases when we presented them earlier. Then, strangely enough, it was completely tame. As a conclusion, I am uncertain whether this day will be a good day for the Defence in the long term. Unfortunately, we have a military history that goes on that part of our defence investment for various reasons has proved not to be equally successful. The most important thing for the Progress Party is that we buy the plane that ensures the safety of our Norwegian girls and boys, and that the aircraft is what the Defense needs, in addition to economics and repurchase agreements. When the investigations available show that another plane is more suitable than what the government has chosen, I am very sceptical.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e795	On 10 January this year, the representative Bredvold had questions to the Minister of Defence about, among other things. Stand for today's Hercules aircraft. Governments inform that they have decided to investigate the so-called quick acquisition of up to four C-130J Hercules aeroplanes. Then the representative replied that it was positive ‘I see, if it is not possible to repair the planes we have’. And further, «Rust can be scary, and rust can be so scary that you can't repair it, that one doesn't find it proper.» Everything is just positive, and then the representative goes on to say, «So I'm glad that the Council of State spoke about the rapid acquisition of – as I understood it – four aircraft», that is, C-130J. He also goes on to say, ‘Then the Hercules aircraft is probably a good alternative to this.’ Then my question is, what has happened since 10 January and until today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e802	“A good alternative” – I didn’t say it was the best option. The most important thing for me and the Progress Party is that we get a good flight for our Norwegian boys and girls who are going to promote peace in the world. Whether it's by buying Hercules or Airbus is a big discussion. But what I want is that we're going to spend the time we need, just to buy what's best for Norway. Then I think it's okay to extend our flights, so we get the time we need to do the best trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e809	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon to come, but the President proposes that the meeting continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the cases are settled. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e814	The centre party is concerned that, in the case of future investments, we need to redefine the investment concept so that, in addition to the purchase of equipment, investments also include the training and training of those to use and operate the equipment. The costs of this in the future must be part of the decision-making basis for the adoption of investments. We have also previously purchased material where serious misassessments have been made regarding the total costs of purchase, maintenance, training and operation. In this way, the decision-making basis for the investments is too low in relation to the fact that we are to have a total defence with the necessary capacities that have their primary responsibility for the Norwegian territory of the country and of the sea. The proposal states that an external quality assurance of the project has been carried out in the course of this purchase in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance on a ‘simplified grant solution’. I am pleased that the Ministry of Defence in its implementation mission for Defence will follow up the uncertainty mitigation measures recommended by the external quality assurance body. These measures include, inter alia: the establishment of a comprehensive project organisation, as well as a concrete governance document with a progress plan for the implementation phase in accordance with the normal standard for large-scale government projects. It is also essential to explain how the project objectives relate to self-protection, etc. can be fully met in the future so that our transport aircraft can participate in any type of operation without restriction. What I noticed in this case is that it is difficult to assess the total cost of purchasing this plane from Lockheed Martin, since there is no alternative plane to compare the costs with. Should we have done that, we must have waited a few years, which we all thought was possible to do just half a year ago. In St. prp. No 1 – State Budget for 2007 – the Ministry of Defence announces that four of our C-130H transport aircraft will be replaced and upgraded to include some of the aircraft’s components. This will allow the aeroplanes to ‘again carry out all known tasks up to approx. 2012-2015’. That is the time when it would be realistic to expect new transport aircraft purchased under normal procurement procedures to be operational. So now there's new information from the aircraft manufacturer and the seller, Lockheed Martin, that the sails about the planes are upgraded in Canada, so the availability, the percentage of time the planes are able to fly, is too low on our existing planes. The Ministry of Defence trusts that information. It's too weak that we didn't have this information before. In order to ensure and further develop the necessary willingness to defend the Norwegian population in the future, a much more robust assessment of the investments to be prioritised is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e827	St. pp. No 78 for 2006-20007 deals with investments in the Defence. At the hearing on 8 June, the Council of State said that this proposition would come every year and that it would be even later last year. The Council of State is entitled to have a proposal every year for investment in Defence. However, there is no reason for it to be very late each year. The strange thing is that the defence's investment needs are not known until the end of May each year. Even more strange is that the government based a proposition on the information received the day before the case went to the State Council. You can then ask yourself whether you have had the opportunity to look at the conclusions and to make the necessary assessments in a matter of almost NOK 4 billion in a short time. The other issues dealt with in this proposition are also issues where there are large amounts that are granted. A general weakness by empowering project implementation with a cost framework is that it is difficult to monitor the economic development of the project in retrospect and in the course of its implementation. It is also difficult to see what is naturally included in the project when there are broad mandates granted. It would also be inconspicuous to be able to point out any deviations from what the project actually includes in detail, when this has not been presented to the Storting in advance. With regard to the new acquisition of target missiles, this is a natural continuation of the completed development project approved by the Budget. S. No 7 for 1994-1995, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 1994-1995. The development project was successfully completed by the test shootouts carried out in the United States in January this year. New target missiles – NSM – shall be the main weapons of defence for surface warfare on different platforms, such as our new frigates and MTBs. The party of progress is in favour of this missile becoming the defence's main weapon of surface warfare. We also hope that such an acquisition to the Norwegian defence will have positive ring-effects in terms of the interest of this missile at our allies. At the same time, we are concerned that this acquisition project should not be associated with projects aimed at adapting this missile to arms platforms other than the Norwegians it is intended to be in this proposition. The big issue in this proposition is, of course, the purchase of new transport aircraft. The need for new transport aircraft has been highlighted by the Progress Party for many years. The funny thing is, the government is right now to acquire new aircraft in a so-called fast-track acquisition. This way of acquiring new transport aircraft is exclusive to an open and good process. The reason for the Government is that there is only one type of aeroplane available on the market. That's why I don't think I'm good enough. There are other tactical transport aircraft on the market that can be delivered during the same period as C-130J. In addition, Airbus A400M can be delivered from 2010. In this context, it is therefore interesting to see the note from the Workers' Party and SV, where they ‘shows that a rapid acquisition of C-130J, combined with possibly lease-in of one aeroplane of the same type is what, according to the Ministry of Defence, will provide Norway with the necessary capacity as soon as possible, i.e. a partial capacity from 2009 and full capacity from 2011.’;» Face this, there is no need to acquire new transport aircraft through fast acquisition, all the time our current transport aircraft will be operational during this period. It is regrettable that such a large and important case as the acquisition of new transport aircraft has been dealt with in such a deplorable way as is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e849	A few days ago we dealt with a matter in this Chamber about the management of the State pension fund – abroad, a matter such as: referred to the Government’s ethical guidelines for the management of the Fund. One of the companies in which the government has already excluded investments is the defence company Lockheed Martin, because the government claims that the company produces components that the government believes are unethical. Today Stortinget deals with a matter that concerns the rapid acquisition of transport aircraft C-130J to the Defence. This acquisition shall be made by the company Lockheed Martin and shall be made without competition. Irrespective of the facts of the matter, the government today has a double morale completely unparalleled. While the government claims that it is absolutely ethical to acquire transport aircraft for nearly 4 billion kroner from the company Lockheed Martin, it says at the same time that it is unethical to invest in the same company. In fact, through repurchase agreements, the Ministry of Defence forces companies such as Lockheed Martin to operate in Norway. So it's unethical to invest in the company, but we're going to acquire from the forced enterprise repurchase agreements and cooperation with Norwegian companies. That's double morality. In other words, the government believes that it is ethically correct to let the company Lockheed Martin make money selling weapons to us, while it is unethical that Norway earns money in the production of those weapons together. While Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen runs around and tells everyone who wants to listen, that the company Lockheed Martin is unethical, Defense Minister Stroem-Erichsen runs even faster and tells that Norway has to quickly procure transport aircraft from exactly Lockheed Martin. What do the majority of the managers of the company Lockheed Martin think would choose if the choice were between Norway investing shares in the company or Norway acquiring the company's transport aircraft? Of course, the company’s management would primarily want Norway to buy the company’s products. The truth about the government's ethics is that it likes to rely on ethical imperialism to score cheap rhetorical points, but that it becomes completely paralysed when it discovers that ethics does not match Norway's practical needs. Then the ethics becomes flexible and selective. Finally, I would like to challenge the Council of State on the possible consequences of the possible rapid acquisition of transport aircraft from an American supplier. All those who follow the defence carefully know that acquisitions of such a size today are not only competition policy, but also foreign and security policy to the greatest extent. Norway is facing two particularly large acquisitions, where our national industry can supply little. It's transport aircraft, and it's fighter aircraft. Traditionally, Norway has balanced its acquisitions between Europe and the United States. This has not least been the trend in recent years. In the light of the above, I would like to receive guarantees from the Council of State that today's decision to acquire transport aircraft from the United States will not lead the competition to take place with regard to fighter aircraft. In other words, can the government guarantee that the purchase from Lockheed Martin today will not give any leads, either rhetorical or real, for the decision on which supplier to choose, when the decision on new fighter aircraft will be taken in two years' time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e866	I think it is right to correct some of the things that Bredvold said about having spent 300 million in vain. kr on the old transport aircraft. I would like to remind you of what I also said during the hearing that the change in wing cost 166 million. kr. The second was routine and major maintenance, which was necessary to do. After all, when the planes have got this wing change, they will be able to fly simple missions in Norway. They will also ensure that our flight crew can fly necessary training hours, which is very important. When reference is made to the US life extension of aeroplanes, it is not correct that those lifetime extensions extend aeroplanes that have flown more than 18000 hours. Our planes have flown an average of 22,500 hours. That's why it's a lot more than what you invest in in the United States, precisely because it's not considered to be equivalent – it doesn't pay off – because the planes are too old. It was also said that all investigations are going in the direction of Airbus. That's not right either. I just want to refer to the questions that we answered in writing to the Committee, where the conclusion of the six investigations carried out in the previous magnification period says that both the A400 VM and the C-130J satisfy the capacity of new tactical transport aircraft. I also think there is reason to refresh the memory of the representative of Bredvold. When he asked me 10 January this year about transport aircraft, he said: ‘That is why I am pleased that the Council of State spoke about the rapid acquisition of – as I understood it – four aircraft.’ Further on in the round of questions, he said: ‘Then enough Hercules is a good alternative to this.’ That's actually the recommendation we're now making to the Biggest, As for the representative Tybring-Gjedde's question, I want to say it this way: when we recommend the quick acquisition of new transport aircraft, it's because we're in a situation where we need new flights. There are no planes on the market other than the Hercules. Therefore, there is no one to choose from, and I want to say that this is an isolated matter. In the fighter aircraft project, we are very concerned that we should have three suppliers, and that we should keep the three suppliers and the competition between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e889	I guess we're all for the quick acquisition of planes, but the question is how fast it should be, and how many are going to be involved. I believe that not everyone has had the opportunity to be involved in this matter. We in the opposition – and then I speak for the Progress Party – feel that this time has gone too fast. It surprises me that it was said in a previous post – I think it was from the Council of State – that there has been only one meeting with Airbus. In all the investigations that have been – I think there have been six pieces – it has been said that Airbus is the best option for Norwegian defence. The Hercules flight from Lokheed Martin is, as I said, a good alternative – of course it is – but there are also other alternatives on the track, and that's what I want to highlight. Otherwise we've talked a lot about planes in this debate, and we've talked a little bit about Rena clay. A capacity for delay shall be built up. I guess it's good that we spend 118 million. up there, but we also have other things up on Rena clay, which I've talked to the Council of State about in other contexts, and it's a workshop. Will the Council of State be so kind as to answer this question: what happens now to the workshop up there that is not finished, which is used as a cold store? It was promised that it would answer that question when I asked it for quite many months. There's nothing on the matter we have here today, and I demand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e898	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e917	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e925	The size shall now vote on case No. 1 on the ordinary agenda and case No. 1 on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e933	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Jan Petersen on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 3, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The request for the rapid acquisition of tactical transport aircraft shall be returned to the Government.’ The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e959	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to conduct an open tender procedure for the acquisition of new transport aircraft and to promote a new case for the Storting based on such an executed process.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e976	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government agrees that the Ministry of Defence in 2007 can1. start up new investment projects, including major property, construction and civil engineering projects, referred to in Chapter 2 New projects for approval in the submitted proposal, with the exception of the quick purchase of C-130J transport aircraft, within the given cost framework.2. amend the previously adopted projects, referred to in Chapter 3 Previous projects adopted in the proposed proposal, within the given cost framework."Left has notified that they wish to support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e1025	There is a vote on proposals from Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 19 June 2007: ‘The decrease asks the Government to take into account abnormal events during the base period when allocating free allowances for the 2008-2012 period.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e1031	The Progress Party supports the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e1047	We're going back to the ordinary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19.ana.ud1045e1145	Since this is the last meeting before the summer vacation, the president will wish everyone good summer and hopefully well, but in any case well mood, because it's very healthy for everyone.
