ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e57	The representative of Ola T. Lånke applied for sick leave from 25 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the Vara, Solvent Kopperstad Bratseth, is convened to meet during the period of leave.3. Solveig Kopperstad Bratseth is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ola T. Lånke.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e78	Solveig Kopperstad Bratseth is present and will take the seat. The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e83	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of Karin S. Woldseth, Modulf Auchan, Trine Skei Grande and myself on various funding models for public funding of private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e88	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e91	It is a pleasure to be able to make suggestions from the depositors Ulf Erik Knudsen, Bård Hoksrud, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself to remove the difference between private and public creditors in terms of late payment fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e96	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16:00, until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e114	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3127]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e130	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e137	The proposal that we are considering today concerns an important area in school, namely counselling. Based on the changing role of advisors, both in the individualised work of individual students and in system-oriented work, we see that counselling has a central role in the school. Proposalers point out that the counselling service has been in focus for many years, but is not entirely satisfied. It is important to bring together some major issues that have been dealt with earlier here in Stortingen, when we are dealing with a case of counselling. We don't have to go so far back in time to see that the school content has been and is strongly focused. Let me briefly mention the Knowledge Promise, which was introduced at school in 2006, and St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007,... and no one was left, as we dealt with this year at the latest. There are leaders in the Knowledge Commitment on better advice for students in the context of personal difficulties and in the choice of occupation and education. The new programme subject of choice is also an action to reduce error choices, by providing secondary school students with a'snuse' in upper secondary school. This could contribute to increased involvement and better assumptions for future educational choices or professional choices. In St.meld. No 16 the advisory service was discussed. Work in progress was referred to at the same time as action was initiated in the future. This is also reflected in the committee’s treatment. There is no political disagreement that good and proper advice is important for many reasons. What has recently received a lot of attention is that many students make choices in the field of study, that for many students drop out or quit courses, and that there may be a connection between choice of error, drop-out and poor advice, and that cooperation between the school owners, i.e. the municipality and county council, could clearly be better, although there are good and interesting projects in some counties and there could clearly have been major trade-offs in industry and/or other actors that could have been relevant for further education or professional choice. Good and proper advice is also important as an instrument to mitigate differences, which is also supported by a broad consensus also internationally that good guidance can prevent non-response in education and working life. Of course, the school owner has a high responsibility for the good advice service, and the school owner is free to organise the advisory function. There is a lot of positive about school-business cooperation, and it is important that we draw experience from such cooperation. Finally, the representative proposal shows that there is impatience in getting a better counselling service. This is also reflected in the fact that the Stortinget will consider a further proposal for a representative in a few days' time, which is also a matter of high school dropout. There is no doubt that there will be a great deal of focus on the counselling service in the future — both as a result of previous treatment here in the Storting and the treatment we have today, and also as a result of the work that the Government has signalled. It's good for the student, good for the school, good for the business world, and it's effective for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e154	Let me first say thank you to the rapporteur who has done an excellent job of bringing together the Committee on Important Things in the configuration, which we expect will also be followed up by the Department. The proposal from the Progress Party is three-thirds. First, it is about how the working week can be used more actively in relation to advice in relation to future career choices, so how to establish a separate advisory tool to ensure individual follow-up of the individual student, and then finally on how to improve interaction between municipalities and county councils in order to provide each student with a better counselling offer. The proposal has a serious backstop. About 40 pst. by students, they are excluded from post-secondary education. The background is diverse, and there are a number of different reasons why we are in that situation. However, these proposals are at least three concrete measures to help reduce non-response. Some of the rejection is probably due to a lack of procedures for follow-up of individual livers. Although everyone in this room agrees that we should invest in a better counselling service, unfortunately, the reality is that in a lot of schools we get so-called invisible students who don't get the advice they need. The reason is that we don't have a system tool for individual follow-up. We have focused on this because we believe it is necessary to ensure that each student is satisfied with his/her counselling needs, and receive the follow-up necessary to get the right pay professionally later in life. This needs to be systematised better, and our proposal is an attempt to contribute to it. Work week is currently used quite randomly from school to school, and it is used to a small extent as part of the vocational guidance. We think it's a challenge because the working week is a very good opportunity to try out different professions that a student might consider for the future. One example is that when Jamie Oliver’s cooking program came on Norwegian television, the application to the cooking line increased radically. What also happened was that one got a big drop from the same line later. Of course, many who watched Jamie Oliver’s excellent cooking skills on television realized that when you were cooking, you were neither on television nor very often busy producing gourmet food, but were behind a wall and stuck hundreds of pounds of onions. Perhaps students could use the work week to get that experience, avoid taking the wrong choice and thus get a faster and better implementation of their education. I am pleased that the Committee now says that requirements are to be made for the placement in the working week to be carried out as part of the guidance work, in order to have a relevance for the student, to improve the student's choice of the future direction of work and education. I expect the Council of State to take note of this and to use it in its communication with municipalities and county councils on how the advice should be for the future. The third proposal concerns better interaction between county and municipality. In some places this cooperation works well, but in most places a number of barriers are encountered to the proper functioning of cooperation between the county and the municipality on the advisory side. This is, of course, due to the fact that there are two different administrative bodies, which have different responsibilities within the training. Municipalities should deal with the counselling service in primary school, while secondary school should be handled by the county municipality. This proposal will press for a better interaction between county and municipality in the field of advisory services. It may be possible to establish a system in which the county takes greater responsibility for the vocational guidance in primary school, to identify the opportunities available in secondary school, and what are the practical aspects of such education. I am pleased that there is a large consensus on important aspects of the relationship with the advisory service in the form of a note. I have a certain hope that this is also closely followed up by the department. Nevertheless, I would like to raise, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the proposals No. 1 and 2 in the vote and on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e171	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e174	The advisory service is important for several reasons, not only to counteract non-response; it is also important to guide the students into the right choices, which the representative Anundsen and, in particular, the case-rapporteur have been involved. For those students who choose the wrong course in secondary education, it will be a wasted year. For some, it becomes an expensive experience, because it leads to loss of motivation for school. It might not be so strange, if the students end up with something they neither master nor have interest in. For school owners, too, it is a disadvantage when students choose incorrectly, thus spending extra time in higher education. The accumulated extra cost for the counties relative to the error selection is large. In Akershus County alone, it was estimated to be 36 million. DKK in 2004. The consensus of the Advisory Committee is important. The red-green lacks the will to be more concrete in terms of solving the problems. We're a little worried that you might not attack the problem wide enough. For the Right, this is a very important field to strengthen. Therefore, in another document, Document No. 8:55 for 2006-2007, on non-advantages in secondary education, which will be treated later, and also during the treatment of St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, proposals were made to improve both quantitatively and qualitatively the vocational and educational counselling received by the students. We have proposed a trial project in which advisers who are employed in high school mainly work in high school, so that the advisers can actually become familiar with the students who will be able to afford, and so that the students receive relevant advice. In addition, it is important that the most well-known advisers on higher education provide advice on higher education courses. It is also important to see the 13-year-old schooling as a whole. In this context, the Right has proposed an extended test of municipal operation of secondary schools, and it would be wise, not least in relation to the overall availability of advisers. We then, of course, support proposal No. 2 in the setting. The right has also asked the Government to carry out an experiment with regional guidance centres released from single schools, which have the task of making optimal use of infrastructure, resources and competences for the benefit of students. We therefore agree with the proposal in the vote. The selection programme is an important new opportunity offered by the Knowledge Lift to better link primary and secondary education. But for the time being, the subject is in the cast in relation to local school owners developing their own curricula. Business placement is an important measure, both in terms of professional advice and in terms of giving students new motivation, on which the representative Anundsen was involved. The NHO organises such an action called NIS, Business in School. One of the objectives of NIS is to provide students with a better basis for professional and educational choices. The cooperation between Hurum Jugendskole and the neighbouring company Södra Cell Tofte is a very good example of what this can do. The company offers a ‘factory path’ that provides a practical presentation of the different occupations of the enterprise. All 9th- and 10th-class students are given the opportunity to visit the company as often as possible up to three days a week for a period of up to a full school year. Students have project tasks such as energy, chemistry and paper production linked to the company. The pupil council will receive NOK 100000 at the disposal of the company to provide a better offer to young people in the community. South Cell Tofte has achieved one of its objectives, namely several apprentices from its neighbourhood and a stable workforce. Students have a good understanding of possible occupations. The right considers that the well-known concept of 'working week' can be further developed in such a direction and therefore also supports the proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e189	Advisers have a very important role to play in today’s school and a central role in reducing the number of wrong choices and more people to complete secondary education. I am therefore very pleased that there is a strong commitment to the Storting to improve and professionalise the advisory service. It is no secret that for many years it has unfortunately not received the focus it deserves through various governments, and not least in the school itself. Advice is important, not least for young people to make the right choices, and we see that there is a broad desire in the Storting to strengthen it. In St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 this has been widely discussed and also discussed by the Committee. We are now following this up in the revised national budget here in Stortinget, with a strengthened allocation to the youth advisory service. Let's do that, for example. because we see that there is a need for a greater degree of professionalism in the counselling service. Then, as the Committee will be familiar with, we will also facilitate a regulatory change in the sharing of counselling services in a social educational part and in a part that is professionally and professionally. This is also because we see that there are two completely different roles here, and where it is possible to share this, it will result in a greater degree of professionalism in the counselling service, which is what we want. It's also, like a follow-up of St.meld. No 16, during the setting-up of an online advisory tool to ensure individual follow-up. We now want to develop a comprehensive overview and a description of occupations and career paths on the Internet. The term ‘professionals and career paths’ has been chosen to cover both the fact that in some industries the same profession or function may be renamed over time and that some education and training has a general, wide range of occupations, i.e. that it can be used in a wide range of professions and functions in the workplace. Professional descriptions are now available on different websites, but there is no overall overview. There is also no overall overview of which websites offer different types of job descriptions or a common standard for which information can be presented for each profession and career path. There are also a number of professions and career paths where no description is available on the Internet at all. Furthermore, it is a challenge for users that public operators in this market are only responsible for informing some parts of the profession. This may make it difficult to identify relevant sources and correct information. We have therefore decided to tender this contract and aim at the publication of the tender in the summer. It should be an objective that users can easily find the information they need on career description and guidance. Increased focus on counselling services, and not least increased focus on non-response, the interest of Storting in this and the follow-up of the Ministry will lead to a better counselling service over the years. I'm happy with the commitment the Stortinget shows to improve the counselling service, and that means that we follow up, and that way more of our young people will succeed in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e204	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3127]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e220	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e229	As the rapporteur, I would like to present the majority's views in the vote. It deals with three proposals: the legal basis for police action against the provision of sexual services and organised begging, and the use of police reserve forces. Initially, I would like to point out that the Stortinget unanimously repealed the Barriers Act in 2005 with effect from 1 July 2006. The majority of the Committee would like to respond to the challenges mentioned in the proposal by using social policy mechanisms more closely than by making legislative changes. I refer to the Government's action plan against trafficking, which has a number of good actions in view of the issues that proposers raise, and that the penal code § 224 should address organised begging. It is a poverty problem that people come to Norway from different parts of the world to beg and prostitute. There is more than one amendment of the law in the police regulations that is needed to deal with these problems. The government wants to have a comprehensive policy and that there should be better cooperation between public institutions. There are questions about housing, there are questions about employment, and there are questions about health. With regard to the Right note on tourist visas, I would like to point out that some airports in Norway are strict in terms of the conditions for obtaining a tourist visa to Norway. You check whether they have a place of residence and whether they have money for a living. So we already have a code that might be more useful to limit the inflow of those who come here to beg, who are not here on vacation. Furthermore, in the ministry, a bill is being drafted that will prohibit the purchase of sex. This will probably lead to street prostitutes disappearing from parts of the streetscape, from where people travel most. The majority want to express a sense of value, based on a desire to help the individual get a decent life. Proposal No. 1 deals with police regulations for the Municipality of Oslo, adopted by the City Council of Oslo on 5 November 2006. The statutes shall be confirmed by the Directorate of Police. It has not yet been done in this case, and I would like to await the outcome of the Police Directorate's assessment of the Statutes. Proposal No. 2 goes on to promote a rule of law that opens up to expel people who offer sexual services, begging or selling in a way that changes the character of an area. Here I refer to what I said initially. I believe that there are other instruments than law enforcement that should be used to address the problems, and I think defining the nature of a changed area is too discretionary to allow people in a difficult life situation to be chased around the city. When it comes to beggars and prostitution, we're facing a criminal-police choice. The majority believe that this choice of road should be drawn up by the Stortinget, not by local police regulations. The third proposal concerns the increased use of police backup services, which in the summer months will remedy the situation of police in relation to the above challenges. The use of the back-up service is to be assessed in the ministry. I am therefore very pleased to be able to say that the Government of the revised national budget allocates 30 million. kr to the police in Oslo, which will enable them to be more visible and to ensure order in the streetscape in Oslo this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e252	Gangs make begging into a job, where acting and disguise is a must when it comes to tricking us nice and gullible to believe that we give to people who need help. We humans want to give and help our next person who doesn't have that good, but with the media that's been in the past, we know that we're being tricked, and we're going to think well about it before we give back. Can it be said that ordinary people living in such areas have a secure life in everyday life? At least I hadn't let my child or my grandchildren travel in such an area. And then what rights do we have? With the new police reform, there would be more visible police in the streets. Has it been? No! No! As usual, the government has created a glossy image. They have not given the police the opportunity and the means they need to do their job. The size should be responsive to the municipalities that experience such problems, and this should be addressed through the police regulations, which provide access to the expulsion of aggressive and annoying beggars and prostitutes who disturb order and order. In this case, the Progress Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 5 from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e263	The background to our proposal is the situation that we have seen develop especially in the Oslo Centre, but also in some surrounding districts. Many people see this proposal as very drastic and radical, but it's actually less invasive than the majority in this room will do by criminalizing sex purchases. It's not a law against the individual prostitute, but it's going to work against the individual prostitute. I think it was almost touching to hear the case rapporteur talk about some criminal policy choices, because what you did with the decision is the exact opposite, so that's the way it is. We believe that our proposal, combined with changed visa rules, could have been a better balance, combined with an increased focus on trafficking in human beings – a view we share with the Government – than criminalising sex purchases. The government has proposed increased funds for the Oslo Police Department. It's a good start, but far from enough. In a situation where, for example: a female police lawyer becomes pregnant, waiting for three months to hire a new one. What happens then is that the cases accumulate, and that you can't actually set the ball in terms of e.g. social security or tax fraud. In Oslo City, all of this is an important factor in uncertainty, because the situation in Oslo City is that it is going to do better. Fafo’s last living conditions survey shows that the state of the city is getting better and better. The Municipality of Oslo has taken responsibility for its part by setting up police councils, and they have established binding cooperation between the police, the public authorities and the municipality. They want to develop a so-called host certificate that will be reassuring, because you can focus on those who are serious, and those who are unprofessional, in a much better way than today. To help people out of a drug problem, the Right fully agrees that social policy measures are the most important. You never force people out of a drug problem, because the trouble is usually a symptom of a sleepiness or void in your head or heart that you try to fill up, but unfortunately with completely wrong things. Our proposal is a supplement that addresses people's need for security in order not to be attacked on the street. I don't think it's right that you should almost feel afraid to go alone in town in the evening because three-four prostitutes are throwing themselves at you. I know that many in this room are concerned that there is a breach of integrity when a man harasses a woman in a yard, but for very many men it also feels like a breach of integrity when one cannot go alone in the city one night without three-four prostitutes pulling you in the arm and taking you in the step. It is a paradox that everyone reacts to the first, while fewer react to the last. Finally, I would like to say that we are drawing our proposal No. 2, and the joint proposal of the Right and the Advance Party is also drawn, in favour of the Left proposal, which addresses the good intentions and objectives. In addition, I mention our proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e280	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, has taken up proposal No. 3 and notified that the proposals No. 1 and 2 are not recorded, but are drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e283	The centre party is engaged in safe local communities. That is why I agree with the proposers that aggressive and ongoing begging, prostitution and sales can be unfortunate, but the police already have the opportunity to show away people who are acting threatening and annoying. The wording of the representative proposal suggests that it is not just the aggressive activities that are perceived to be problematic, but just as much the visual expression. Some of the discussion about the conditions in Oslo has just been linked to the visual expressions in our tourist streets. I mean, we're going to be careful -- very careful -- by letting us tear off a debate where we're going to clear up a symptom, but where we leave reality about the same. I am afraid that if we do not go into this more thoroughly than by agreeing to the proposals that have been submitted. I can't get away from a thought that you're here to get something out of sight, but that we're still going to have to live with the problems. Legislation is now under way prohibiting the purchase of sexual services. I'm glad. I believe it goes on in principle and on measures that have a different entrance than that we are going to clean up the cityscape. It goes on the issue of trafficking in human beings, and it goes on unworthy relationships related to respect for human dignity. I believe that the Stortinget will be well served to get that kind of principal review of these questions, rather than making this a matter of police regulations and a cleaner city. I'll regret it if the outcome of today's debate is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e292	In the Christian People's Party, we want to signal a ban on the purchase of sexual services. We want such a ban because we do not accept that people are traded as a commodity. Every human being is inviolable. The purchase and sale of the human body should therefore be prohibited in Norway. A ban on the purchase of sexual services will appear preventative and thus reduce the number of whore dogs. This, in turn, will make prostitution less profitable, and the extent of prostitution will be reduced. We know that trafficking in human beings is the fastest growing criminal activity in the world. According to the United Nations, the dividend is close to DKK 100 billion per year. years. We will not get rid of this cynical and very brutal form of crime if we do not attack it on a broad front. Making trafficking in the female body less profitable is a necessary tool to reduce trafficking in human beings. In the Christian People's Party, we are therefore pleased that the government parties are now supporting our position on criminalisation. It is essential that citizens feel that they can move freely around cities. We cannot allow prostitution, drug trafficking and crime to make some areas almost inaccessible to the public and impossible to engage in business. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we are now getting a banishment that is not perceived as a renovation of the streets, and that that is the main purpose. Our commitment to reducing the level of prostitution is in no way justified by the desire for clean and clean streets, but in the desire to secure the individual fundamental human rights. With the same reason, the Christian People's Party has supported the ban on organised begging. For us, it has been very important to prevent increased stigmatisation or more difficult living conditions for people who have already been tried hard. In Oslo, we are well aware that prostitutes, beggars and sellers have sometimes shown provocative and aggressive behaviour. We can't accept this behavior. Cities such as Oslo need the support of the local police regulations that allow the police to expel people whose behaviour interferes with the general order or movement, at or in the immediate vicinity of a public place. Such a permit will make it possible to expel all those who act in an unacceptable way in the public space, not just named groups on the shadow side of society. Today, the Christian People's Party has made proposals in line with what I have just said and which I am referring to. The Christian People's Party is also concerned with other measures that we know reduce crime and contribute to increased security. There is a well-documented connection between alcohol and violent crime. That is why we need to tighten up the number of donations and to differentiate the opening hours in urban areas with major crime challenges. I look forward to cross-political cooperation on various measures to ensure greater security for all citizens in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e311	The representative Aud Kvalbein has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e314	In the back door of this case, which is not in the case, is the question of trafficking in human beings and serious organised crime. Then there is a topic of debate that is not up today, but in which everyone is involved, namely whether it is right or wrong to criminalise whores. And finally, it lies in the matter of what in the public space, I repeat, in the public space, is acceptable or unacceptable behavior no matter who practices it. I'll comment on it that way. First of all, I am very pleased that the sitting government is exerting a strong pressure on what others have started, namely to combat trafficking in human beings. I see very positively, on behalf of the Left, at the efforts that are now being made in the Oslo Police District, and that are beginning to produce results. Secondly, I am absolutely convinced that respect for the ordinary, we should call it, polite conversation in the street – for example. I'm going to let someone throw themselves at me because they're going to ask about 15 opinion polling questions, in a kind of tip-off in the city, like you experience as an Oslo citizen – about behavior and politeness rules. We often say in school that the minimum task of parents is to teach their children that they don't just throw themselves at other children. There's a kind of norm that applies between us people. The proposal I have tabled, and which I think it is nice that both the Right and the Advance Party are now supporting, is nothing but an expression of such a norm. Either a prostitute, beggar or sales driver, it can't be an acceptable norm that a person acts differently from what we're trying to teach our kids that they're going to do and don't do when they move into school everyday. It is this view and this norm that an overwhelming majority of Oslo City Council, including the largest government party, have adopted as a proposal for a police statute. It's not for social renovation. This city has a mayor who is a strong opponent of such thinking. So it's going to be possible to sort more thoughts, and it's going to be possible to fight for the norms that we call normal norms between people, regardless of their background, no matter what one's name and no matter where one lives, which is so that we don't throw ourselves at others like this. The proposal that the Left is now promoting is about it, and is identical to – it is a bit rewritten, because it must be the case in Stortinget – draft police regulations on this point adopted by an overwhelming majority of Oslo City Councillors. Then I personally fully agree with those who say that if you want to secure the norm in a street room, for example. in Karl Johan, Norway’s most trafficked place, yes, it triggered the last summer when patrolling police appeared. Just by walking a little back and forth and up and down the street, a good part of the norms fell into place. Some wise people then said the following: Think how many piggy debates we had escaped if the hike had begun a little earlier. I belong to those who look positive that the government has added $30 million. kr to Oslo Police. I also belong to those who believe this is not enough, but it should be a debate at another time. Here it will be enough to say that what is to be praised, we praise it. The fight we're going to have when it comes to doing things better or not, we're going to do things elsewhere. It is on this basis that I take the floor, and I would like to say the following: I was actively involved, with an impulsive growth, in decriminalizing begging. I'm also active for, and happy about, the provision we have to go after organized gangs, which specialize, and which we find in all European big cities. They appear roughly the same way either one is in Lisbon, in Paris or in Oslo. I'm for targeting this organized criminal phenomenon and hitting it for what it is. It's positive. I am opposed to the fact that what is a social policy problem must be solved in terms of criminal policy. That's a line I really agree with. That is why the Left is also opposed to the criminalisation of sex purchases. We don't think it's going to make life better for the prostitutes, and we don't think it's going to make life easier for the police to get witnesses. I shall not comment on it further, because it is well known in this Chamber what the view of the Minister of Justice sitting here is. It is also well known that there is a tidy man, who is a democrat and a member of a political party. I just want to mark it that way. It is my honest belief to combat trafficking in human beings, and if you want to make life better for vulnerable girls, at least you have to get as many witnesses as possible and not as few witnesses as possible. And then it would have been nice if Sweden, which is still being looked at, had evaluated its experiences. It would have been nice. I don't take it anymore, but I felt like I had to say this in the pulpit today. The proposal for the Left, which I'm addressing, is about normal behavioral rules, regardless of what a name is and where a boron lives. They should also apply in the public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e337	The President noted that the representative, Odd Einar Dørum, had put forward the proposal to which he referred and was distributed at the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. An incubation did not reveal that the representative of Kirsti Saxi had asked for the floor, and she is now given the floor before the Council of State – Kirsti Saxi.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e343	I would first like to say that SV is behind the post of the case rapporteur, and I just want to underline the opinion of the government parties. We are faced with a criminal policy choice, and the policy here should be drawn up by the Stortinget and not by local police regulations, in order to ensure equal treatment. When a unanimous increase recently decided to decriminalise begging, this was based on a recognition that it is wrong to punish public suffering, and a praiseworthy signal of a more humane approach to the problem of poverty. Typing and prostitution are not primarily a problem of order, but the visible evidence of poverty and suffering. It is therefore important and correct what we have now stressed that begging must be confronted primarily with social policy instruments, not with criminal policy instruments. There are many groups in Oslo and elsewhere in the country that sometimes have a behavior that seems both threatening, aggressive and ongoing. Of course, we need standards and rules for what is acceptable behavior in a society, and these should apply to everyone, regardless of whether they are prostitutes, beggars or bigpox representatives. It is also important to stress that today the police have authority to maintain general order and order. But there is a lot of evidence that some of the beggar activities, especially in Oslo, have become more professional and organized. SV therefore believes it is important that any forced begging be caught by the law. We refer to Innst. O. No 10 for 2005-2006, where we asked the Government to follow up the proposal to include organised begging in Section 224 of the penal code on trafficking in human beings, i.e. the so-called trafficking paragraph, because we believe it would be important to put the backers to beg for responsibility. It is correct and important that the Ministry also assesses the necessary legal measures to address the concerns of aggressive and ongoing prostitution, begging and sales, but I would stress the importance of looking at cross-sectoral measures to limit inflows. For example, in the case of Oslo: measures such as the blade = Oslo done a lot to prevent begging. Not least, many beggars have regained their dignity. I will end by quoting from a editorial in that magazine, which reads as follows: ‘The way of peace and security does not go through punishment, but through tolerance and roughness’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e370	Let me first say that it is gratifying that this debate is continuing much of that as a total increase thought was important when we decriminalized begging on the basis of the initiative of the previous government. The choices we made to meet the problems we see in Oslo streets and in other city streets say something about what kind of choices we want to make in terms of visual expressions in the streetscape that some of us don't like. I am very pleased that the representative Sundsbø and others have been involved in good judgements of principle about this, in particular the need to criminalise an image, criminalise a situation that we actually don't like. Sometimes such a criminalisation can only become a sleep cushion in relation to all the other measures that we know the previous government was engaged in were to be put into action, and which also the government I represent believes are important to overcome these challenges. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee wants to use social policy instruments more widely than legal changes to beggars. I wholeheartedly support this position. Criminal liability for begging should not be reintroduced, either in the form of a criminal order or indirectly in the form of a comprehensive right of expulsion. Nevertheless, I would say that, regardless of how the Left's proposal will be dealt with today, I see the currents and angles of that proposal as far more constructive than in many other proposals. And regardless of the fate of this proposal, I will take it with me in the further work on this issue. In fact, I see elements in that proposal as good, and that it is a contribution that we will also be able to take great advantage of in future debates. I say that because, in fact, I believe that it is important in this debate that we stand together as much as possible, because it is a matter of very principleal and important leadership in how we should implement criminal and social policy and policy as such. In this way, I think it is a constructive input that can contribute to the fact that in public space as well as in public debate, important issues are actually raised in a decent way. As mentioned in the decision of the Justice Committee, Oslo City Council adopted on 15 November 2006 a new Police Regulation for the Municipality of Oslo. The Statute is for evaluation in the Police Directorate, which has the task of confirming police regulations. I would like to await the police director's assessment of the draft statute before looking into whether there is a need to change the basis of the statute of police in the police law and also the possible follow-up to the proposal promoted by the Left. Therefore, at this point I will not rule out the need to give the police permission to expel people who are engaging in aggressive and ongoing begging. The majority of the Judicial Committee asked in Innst. O. No 61 for the 2005-2006 department to assess the necessary legal measures to address the concerns of aggressive and ongoing prostitution, begging and sales. The Ministry will keep under review developments and the need for a narrow extension of the legal basis for local police regulations. As mentioned, I will come back to the case when the Police Directorate has assessed the law of the Municipality of Oslo. That being said, it is important to note that the police can already expel people who commit criminal offences, among others. under Section 7 of the Police Act. The police can, for example, dismissing persons who act as menacing, Section 227 of the Penal Code, by improper conduct, interferes with general peace or tranquillity or traffic, Section 350 of the Criminal Code, or acts intimidatingly or painfully, Section 290a of the Penal Code. So there's some lodgers there. I believe the representative of Dørum is concerned about something essential in his post. It's about enforcing some of the rules, but it's also about showing face and showing the presence of the public authorities, as the Oslo police district did last summer. It's not to hide that the government's commitment to the police is precisely meant to be able to maintain such a type of police activity in the future, also in Oslo. In the vote, the members of the Committee from the Right stated that they expected a significant strengthening of the police budget in the course of the review of the revised national budget. I can, of course, welcome the fact that the Right Members propose the police action further strengthened in the revised national budget. With regard to the ongoing provision of sexual services, there is reason to await the situation. There we will shortly send to the hearing a proposal to ban the purchase of sexual services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e396	Oslo streets are not very attractive parts of the year. A minor cleanup is usually in tourist time, but when the harvest comes, we are back to the usual, normal everyday life. Every year it seems to be getting worse and worse, that business is getting more and more organized. I would like to ask the Council of State: do the police organize their business well enough? Can he think about how to organize his everyday life better? And: do the police use the means they get, both money and equipment, efficiently and efficiently? Finally, can the police become a little more visible in the streets, and not just in the tourist days, but throughout the year? All the time it's like this in Stortinget that we're discussing and discussing, but will the Council of State look at some of the working methods and opportunities that the police now have?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e405	This I think is a very good question. I think we politicians might want to focus more on this in the future than just discussing heads and ears of the police. As responsible for the department, I therefore believe that we should have been much more confronted with this kind of question. That's why the government has taken action on the question of how we organize the work in relation to the prostitutes and those who are exposed to trafficking in human beings. I believe it was absolutely necessary that we set up a group in Oslo that created trust between the victims and those who are actually going to investigate the backers. I'm very happy that we've put in place such a group. So we could say the same thing about the replication project. I think it's very important to see if there's an opportunity to get more out of the politicians than what we're getting today, among other things. by cooperating across the borders of the police district and also with other special units. Of course, I would also like to invite the Progress Party to help prevent better and pursue a better alcohol and alcohol policy in the municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e412	Despite significant opposition in the Government to criminalising the purchase of sexual services, the national meetings of the three government parties have decided to ban the purchase of sexual services. Of course, this Christian People's Party is very pleased. Prostitutes are equivalent to fellow humans, and society should not sit quietly and watch that this group of people are humiliated by the purchase of their bodies by others. The Minister of Justice has assured the Government that it will follow up the country's criminalisation decisions, and I heard that the Council of State did something about this. I will allow myself to ask the Council of State when the Storting can expect to be presented with a bill on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e419	As the representative of Kvalbein is well aware, it was stated in the Government's action plan that the issue of the criminalisation of sex purchases would be assessed. The background to the assessment formulation was the desire to await some experience from Sweden. There are clear decisions in the national meetings of the government parties and in central bodies that have made it clear that we have now put full pressure on the work on the provisions on the criminalisation of purchases. I will aim to send this out to the hearing as soon as possible. We have ambitions to do it already before the summer break. That means that we should not override the ordinary legislative process on this proposal. I think it is important to get consultation, because there are other measures that also need to be put in place if we are to have good use and effect of the ban, including. ensure that we have the least possible disadvantages from the ban. So I'm waiting for some exciting consultation on this, and then we'll come back as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e426	The Council of State and I share the view that when the police show up, they have so much respect that they set standards – just by being present. My question to the Council of State is fundamentally due to a concern I have had over a few years, and that is the status and position of what we can call the police's out-of-court work – what is called the law service in police languages. It's the part of the police that shows up when someone's cooked a boiler dry, so it smells like sweat or is even more dangerous. It's also the part of the police that shows up at a killing wound. What thoughts have the Council of State made to strengthen the status and position so that good people can be recruited for this service, that they are in the service, and that they remain in the service? I think it is a service that is crucial for the overall and broad trust between Norwegian police and people in this country, citizens. I think it's such a service we're talking about when you walk on Karl Johan and meet people in a wise way, because I know the police do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e435	Also in the wake of the representative Nistad's question, I believe that this is one of the elements that it is very important to assess when we are going to assess how we organise the police. I believe that we still have a lot to pick up by looking at how we organize the police districts, to what extent we have too heavy decision-making structures in the police, that we have too much administration and too few people out there. It's a process that I'm absolutely serious about. At the same time, I believe that we do not get away with the need to strengthen the resources of the police with more money. That's also why the Government does it. The third element, and that might be the most important thing, is that we actually need more policemen in Norway. We've had too little admission to the Police College. That's why there's one of the reasons why the government is now betting on a record recording at the Police College, with 432 students, hopefully many with minority backgrounds and other people with foreign backgrounds. One of the reasons is that we want to get more people out in the streets. Our rendezvous project is also a project that helps to make the police more visible, among other things. on the Furuset.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e448	So the line change is over. No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3127]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e464	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 5 minutes per party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e471	Today, we are considering a proposal related to the issue of limitation in the so-called North Sea dive case. First of all, I would like to stress that this is a matter which all parties concerned should receive a worthy and correct treatment in the judiciary. These are people who have made a great effort that the entire Norwegian community has been able to harvest the fruits since the start-up in the North Sea more than three decades ago. Therefore, the North Sea Diving case has also been the subject of a wide-ranging treatment in Stortinget in the past. In the past, a collective justice authority has assumed in similar cases that the State should be wary of claiming custody where claims are made, among other things. compensation as a result of errors or negligence committed by the public. There's a lot of good reasons why it's still going to be like this. Those who fall victim to such errors and omissions by the state are often in a vulnerable position, and it may take a lot of time and effort to fight against an entire system which, naturally, believes that sound decisions and assessments have been made. There are therefore many reasons why caution should be exercised in such cases if there are good reasons why it has taken time, and there is a good chance that the claim will otherwise be made. The Minister of Justice, during the broad assessment which has been carried out in the past and now, has emphasised that this precautionary line is still firm, and indicates that, in the view of the Ministry, it is not appropriate for the State to invoke obsolescence in the North Sea Diver case as long as there are remaining questions of principle which have not been clarified. In view of this, the majority of the Committee considers that there is no justified need to make further adjustments to Section 6 of the Pensions Act, which otherwise operates in a satisfactory manner. In this context, it is also relevant to refer to the natural division of labour between legislators and courts, where, in most cases, it results in good results if there is room for adapting the solution in the case to the considerations in force. A general legislative change will not necessarily be just as appropriate for other issues — it can lead to less good results there and a more complex regulatory framework in general, while in some cases it would be relevant to invoke obsolescence if it is otherwise clear that the requirement will not lead to e.g. solutions in similar matters. The majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is pleased that the Ministry has announced that it will draw up a precautionary line in the proceedings before it and that the Stortinget should attach the proposal to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e490	The representative's proposal raises two questions. The first question is whether the Government should withdraw the possibility of claiming limitation in the specific case of the North Sea divers and their possible claims for compensation against the State. The rules we have for custody allow the person who claims to be responsible not to rely on the rules of limitation. In the reply of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, reference is made to St.meld. No 47 for 2002–03, where the Ministry says that the State does not wish to invoke limitation if there are remaining questions of principle that have not been resolved by law. I therefore believe that paragraph 1 of the proposal is in place. The second question being raised is whether we need a law firm to prevent the state from claiming to be obsolete in cases where state authorities themselves may be suspected of having attempted to conceal their actions. In the case of actions for damages, there are two considerations to consider – taking into account the need to ensure evidence and, therefore, that a claim for compensation should be made within a reasonable period of time after the damage has occurred. Furthermore, is there consideration of the predictability of harmful violence – will something happen in this case, or can I put it behind me and go on in life? In the case of cases where the State is a perpetrator, a precautionary approach has been put in place to ensure that the State does not claim to be a culprit where the victim will suffer an innocent loss. However, each case and each case complex needs to be assessed in concrete terms. The time-limits laid down in the law on limitation are reasonable, which should allow the injured party sufficient time to assess whether claims for compensation should be made, while safeguarding the interests of the injured party in order to settle the case within a reasonable period of time. I therefore support the majority of the committee, and do not see the need to amend the rules of Section 9 of the Legacy Act in order to achieve what the proposers want with their point 2 of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e505	It is a pity that the majority of the committee does not see the need for a legislative change in this field. I think that is a passive attitude. It is the Stortinge that adopts laws, and it is thus the Storinge that determines whether there is a basis for adopting legislative changes. However, the Progress Party notes that the majority considers that the aspects referred to in the proposal of the Progress Party are safeguarded through the precautionary approach in claiming limitation in such cases. This is a very snowy circular argumentation. All the time the state can keep secret documents for a number of reasons, it will be difficult to decide if you've actually followed this line. All experience shows that facts will come up sooner or later. It would be tragic if it was too late for someone who might have had a claim for compensation. For example, it is the responsibility of the government at all times to show whether history will show whether this will be a scandal in the state of law in Norway or not. There is no doubt that the state had the necessary knowledge of the danger of diving, and now the government refuses to accept the legal responsibility. One of the most important things is how many divers have really died. This has been neglected by the public for 80 years. If the state here claims to be a parent, it will be perceived as grossly offensive to people's general sense of justice. So I'll take up the suggestion that's included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e516	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e519	I note that the majority of the committee does not support the proposals. With regard to point 1 of the proposal that the Government should refrain from calling on the cause of the North Sea Diving, the specific case complex falls within the remit of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. I have therefore sought his views. On the basis of this, I would first like to stress that the Government has provided a large number of documents to the divers and their representatives. No documents are classified for 60 or 80 years. Transparency requests have been dealt with in accordance with the rules of the Public and Administrative Act, and the few documents that have been withheld are subject to secrecy and contain mainly information on the mental or physical health of individuals. The state signaled in St.meld. No 47 for 2002-2003, the examination of the conditions of the pioneers in the North Sea, that it was not possible to ignore the fact that some divers could win out with claims against the State. The issue of limitation was raised in the same communication. In this respect, it is said that the Ministry assumes that in any claim for compensation from the divers it will not be appropriate for the State to invoke limitation. The Committee has repeated the same in the past. S. No 137 for 2003-2004. Therefore, it is not appropriate for the State to rely on limitation if there are remaining questions of principle that have not been settled by law. The same would apply to plaintiffs who, on the basis of legal and factual evidence, have an opportunity to reach their case. However, it is not desirable to waive the possibility of making a claim for limitation against claims which are clearly not likely to be made. In the interest of such proceedings, it is at least considered appropriate at this stage that the State retains the possibility of bringing an action for limitation. With regard to paragraph 2 of the proposal concerning an amendment to Section 9 of the Pensions Act, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee considers that there is no basis for such a change. I would first like to say briefly something about why we have parental rules. The proposers seem to believe that the purpose of the Legacy Act is to prevent the existence of ‘money requirements for an unreasonable period of time’. I think that's too simple. Indeed, an important consideration behind the rules on the limitation of claims is that the injured person should be encouraged to promote his claim within a reasonable period of time after the damage has been found. There are in particular two reasons for this, which actually also serves the person who is entitled to the claim. Well, the first one is the evidence. Finding out what has happened can become more difficult as the years go by. It also affects the person entitled to compensation. Evidence will gradually be weakened or lost, e.g. because documents have disappeared or because persons are no longer alive. The second consideration is the need for alignment. The person who claims to be responsible will subsequently rely on the absence of a basis for liability, including: if the possible requirement is not known, or if it might appear doubtful whether there could be a claim. These considerations also apply to claims against the public, of course. I believe that today's limitation rules for claims are reasonable, and have difficulty in seeing that there is a need for other rules. In my view, the concerns which proposers seem to be concerned with have already been well taken care of by the rules of the parental law, including those relating to children. Section 9. I refer here to what I have said in a letter of 16 February 2007 to the Committee, which is included as an attachment in the vote. Any adverse outcome of the rules on limitation in specific individual cases may be remedied in ways other than by legislative amendment. Billing compensation and cancellation of the limitation period are two instruments that are absolutely relevant to the matters with which I have been informed, including: through this debate. Then to the specific proposal. In my view, this is unclear and inappropriate, and I refer here to what I have said in the letter to the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e543	Once again, there may be grounds for asking questions about how we should know in society that we are following a care line, as long as you don't see if that line has been followed in retrospect. I think the North Sea divers perceived the situation as if you've been playing some kind of poker with the state, where one party plays with open cards and the other side holds the cards tight. We've been up to it for reasons of fact, that, among other things. is why you have the custody law. I think there's a lot of responsibility here on the victim. I believe that when the State is the party to provide compensation, if any, the same consideration may not apply to the amounts of compensation in relation to their limitation and predictability, which reaches, for example, two enterprises, or two individuals, have a dispute over an amount — especially when the State has special rights. So I wonder if the Council of State sees the nuances here, when the state is the perpetrators with special rights compared to when others are the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e552	Yes. I can see that. It is not the same when the State is a counterparty to these cases, in claims where damage has been committed, as when, for example: two enterprises are opposed to each other. Although I would think that the private business and institutions that make a lot of money in commercial interest also have a significant responsibility to repair the damage caused to workers – perhaps as much as the government has. However, the point is that the state has just made it possible to take this responsibility seriously, for example. through the care line you have by claiming that you are a parent, and, as I said in my post, all the other tools you have for those who suffer damage, including: the question of the cheap substitute instrument, which has been very relevant to large groups of people. Both the current government and the previous government have worked a lot on it. In the case of poker games in the North Sea Diving business, after the recent events, it is somewhat uncertain to me who is really playing poker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e561	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the floor in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3128]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e579	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e588	The proposers address a theme that affects many and creates great commitment, not without reason. The fact that insurance is not provided for incalculable reasons and that the consideration of the individual's economy governs everything becomes, in effect, a sorting process – sorting between worthy and unworthy people. It's a development no one wants. We already have a regulatory framework that seeks to balance the need for contractual freedom with the individual’s need for insurance based on broader societal considerations. The proposal addresses a number of concerns about an alleged persistent and increasing pressure to facilitate the collection, use and retention of personal data on health. To the extent that progress and experience show that the balance and balance that needs to be made has been overtaken, we expect that it will be discussed in the Committee when the Government will present proposals to the Stortinget during 2007 so that the Stortinget is invited to review all the fundamental issues that both the proposers, the Committee and the Council of State have been adequately addressed. The relationship between the information needs of the insurance industry and the privacy of the individual is a debate that is important and should run continuously. We will return to this when the matter comes to Stortinget during the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e601	The representative proposal addresses an important issue. We want to take more care of health insurance. I see the challenges that lie in the fact that the insurance company would like to know a little about our disease history before we take out insurance, so that the insurance premium can be determined in relation to the risk it runs, but the desire for information must be balanced with the privacy of the policyholder. It is important that it is clear what is authorised to obtain health information when we sign the insurance documents. Doctors or psychologists who declare that they are exempted from professional secrecy must be aware of what information they disclose, that it is relevant to the insurance to be taken out. How much to deliver on mental health in order to take out a cancer insurance can be discussed. It is good that surplus information collected is required to be erased or returned. We have several laws today that regulate questions about this. The companies to obtain health information must have a concession. It allows the state to close away unprofessional actors. The government will return to Stortinget with a proposition on the theme during 2007. Then we will have the opportunity to re-examine this important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e612	The Central Party is not represented in the Judicial Committee. That is why I would like to make a few brief comments on this matter. The centre party shall stand behind the unanimous vote of the Committee. The case deals with conflicts of interest between the subject of privacy and the insurance interests. It's a complicated area. It is said that insurance companies need health information when taking out insurance, as is the case with any claims settlement. But it is obvious that this could conflict with the privacy of the individual. The question is not least what information is to be provided and who is to provide the information. Sylvia Brustad states in the evening post today, on the basis of many individual cases where patient information has been requested and provided, that there are a number of examples that allow questions to be asked about the adequacy of the legislation. On 1 December 2006, the Bergen Zenterparti made an enquiry to the Minister of Justice in the form of a letter asking questions concerning the refusal of insurance to children who have been referred to the Pedagogical-psychological service and requested changes to the insurance contract law. A rapid and positive response from the Ministry of Justice told us that the Department is working on these kinds of issues and is preparing a proposition to be promoted during 2007. The centre party is concerned about an increasing pressure to facilitate the collection, storage and use of personal data on health. That is why we believe it is positive that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health are preparing for changes in the law that should better ensure personal data and get clearer and therefore safer legislation in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e627	The issue is in the Left's opinion about something very important, namely the people's confidence in their doctor. Information on personal health, both mental and physical, is one of the most vulnerable health services in the world. In the wake of the proposal under consideration, the Left has received a huge number of enquiries. The problems are the same, namely that insurance has been refused because of the de minimis use of drugs, that one has once been with a psychologist, or that one has had some problems after a break in life. These are normal variations in human health that should not be perceived as health risks later on. This is not just a problem with regard to insurance. The problem concerns accidents, claims, disability pension, etc. As the huge NAV system connects, nothing will be better. In the evening post yesterday, we could read that the police want information about medical conditions in people who may be involved in crime. The insurance company requires patient records for persons to be insured. Child protection and social security will have patient records. The question we have to ask ourselves is, would we like to get our innermost, most personal information spread to so many different instances and people? There is a huge demand for our health information, from public authorities, from researchers and from commercial actors. The left and my impression is that privacy very often has to give way to matters that are described as more important. There is a need for a strong warning for the protection of individual human health information. The vast majority of issues and initiatives in which considerations other than privacy are given the highest priority are based on good intentions. In the view of the Left, it is essential that confidential information remains as much as possible between doctor and patient, so that health services have confidence in the population. The left is very concerned about health developments in which it is difficult for individuals to have an overview of how health information is used and stored. There is a high demand for patient information in a number of contexts, and the creation of new registers will make it more difficult for individuals to have an overview. The question that can then arise is what happens in the long term if the individual had to think and feel that he has to defend himself against the health care system. It's not supposed to be the main point of view. There's no one here in this room who thinks so, but a living, identity citizen should never feel that you can get close to that situation. In isolation, it is possible to defend most, and usually each case is a seemingly good case. I tend to say it so that Norway occasionally rice of the good intentions tyranny. Bit by bit we accept something, but then we forget that sometimes we have to have more than one mirror to understand life around us. I feel that other representatives have just discussed it. It is the sum of all information obtained that becomes the problem, and not least that electronic solutions usually allow for more people to access the information. That's why it's very important that there is also a conscious privacy policy in the area of health, and if that's what I think I now perceive, that the government has today set down a personal data commission, this is a very important area to address in such a context. The left will stress that strong privacy is essential both for individual freedom and for democracy, and I would like to add that the protection of the private sphere is a prerequisite for a free society. Freedom presupposes that every person is protected against improper registration, monitoring and interference in private life. It's part of history when we got the American Declaration of Independence and the French Revolution, that the king was chased out of the bedroom, and it was cleared up between the private sphere and the public space. It must be a cross of thought that we ca. 200 years later, some of the boundaries between the private sphere and the public space are being wiped out. That's why it's very important that we now see this as a whole. Technology is pushing us, different demands are pushing us. On the left, we are pleased that the Government is making a proposition, and we are not promoting our proposal today, for the following reasons: firstly, we have registered the open position the Minister of Justice has given in his reply, and secondly, we have even more strongly recorded his open position in the public change of words. We have also registered the health minister's attitude in the open vocabulary, and I have to admit that I felt some disappointment about – let's call it – the inaction in the committee position, but something was corrected because of the involvement of some representatives in the pulpit earlier. It gets to be that it's the last impression that counts. It's never too late to turn into vital things. On this basis, the Left is looking forward with positive expectations to the document announced by the State Council of Storberget that he will join the Stortinget, and we assume that we can get better protection when commercial players want to dig into our most personal and private relationships. It says here about the privacy, and the distinction between it, the market and the public space is one of the pillars on which our whole society is based. We have confidence that the State Council of Storberget will at least give us a real opportunity to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e653	I am delighted to announce that a few minutes ago, in the Council of State at the Castle, the Privacy Commission has probably been appointed after the firm efforts of, among other things, the Privacy Commission. The representative of Dørum, but also of the Government. I think it's very important to see the breadth of all these questions that are now drawn up, and so that we don't become servants of the good intentions tyranny, and can see the whole picture. This is part of the world of personal protection, which is crucial for both the health of people and the situation of people, and which is also very illustrative in relation to the challenges we are actually facing. An overall committee expresses concerns as to whether the protection of personal data is adequately protected in the context of the provision of personal insurance and in the context of an insurance settlement. I share this concern. It should not be the case, as the representative Dørum also pointed out, that what most of us perceive as normal variations in human health, and which have nothing to say for the assessment of health risks by commercial interests, should apply particularly strongly when, among other things,: shall consider the possibility for insurance undertakings to refuse insurance. On the one hand, it is in the nature of the insurance institution that an insurance company needs health information in connection with the drawing of personal insurance. The same applies in any subsequent settlement of claims. At the same time, it is not possible to get past the fact that this need may conflict with the privacy of the individual. Insurance corporations are required to determine premiums that are proportionate to the risk. The risk is identified by the collection of information and consequently the insurance customer has a corresponding disclosure obligation. At the same time, data protection legislation limits the access of the insurance company to personal data. Additional requirements in this respect also result from the concession for the processing of personal data. As has been noted, the Department is currently working on following up NOU 2000:23, Insurance Companies' collection, use and storage of health information. The investigation concerns, inter alia: relationships between the information needs of the insurance industry and the privacy of individuals. I'm still aiming to put forward a proposition for the Storting right now, during 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e664	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3128]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e680	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e689	The proposers address a very important issue in the case that has been raised. There has been a debate and commitment after the last few months in the media about disclosures in the weighting industry. There is reason to be concerned about the lack of routines and the control of the industry. That is why this matter, on which we are going to have a debate today, is so important. There's one thing we shouldn't forget, and that's that the watch business is dominated by four major actors who have 90 pst. by the market, and that the industry itself is a driving force in order to have stricter rules governing and controlling what they are doing. Today, only Oslo police districts carry out proper and proper control. There is an increasing demand in the population for weighting services. Today, we can see that at airports, in the context of lifeguard services, in the care of houses and shops and in the transport of money. Today, the agencies have a great responsibility for values and orderly tasks. It would be inconceivable that the police would take over all the duties of the security companies and the security industry today. Therefore, it is important that we all agree that the security companies should be a supplement to the police. The police need the security companies as much as the security companies need the police. They have to play teams, especially in the field of profit crime. In 2001, a unanimous increase of its own watchkeeping law was adopted. The main objective was to improve the quality of the weighting service and to improve control and legal certainty for those coming into contact with the instrument. This has not been properly followed up. As I said before, of the 27 police districts we have today, only Oslo has had proper control. It is very important that we avoid this profession being abused by criminal and criminal environments. It is therefore very important that the proposals in the vote today be adopted. It is important to have a central authorisation system – a control body, and to get a separate ID card. When we see that State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen goes out and says that you can get a separate ID card for building workers who walk around and control, it may not be so difficult to get an ID card for the weighting service as well. Today, the police approve the orderly guard, and it must be possible to obtain an approval of the instruments as well. So that the police should be obliged to notify the management of the guard companies in case of suspicion of crime. It also said the Council of State in a letter to the Committee, but it has not been followed up. And when it comes to being able to check the reputation on an ongoing basis, we're going to have a case in Odelstinget today that the court administration should be able to go in every six months and check the reputation of the co-judgments. Therefore, it must be possible to have a continuous check on the damage to the weighing instruments. We know that the weight industry is very vulnerable, and we are asking for proposals to test employees on suspicion of drug and drug abuse. It's also one of the proposals that the minority think is very important. We have to make demands on the industry, and we have to get those unprofessionals away. In the context of the adoption of the Act of the Watch Company in 2001, the Committee unanimously agreed that the police would need five new posts in order to control this. So we know that in relation to the police reform, this may have come a little way. But what's important now is to put in place a proper control system. The five posts POD needs to get control of this, I believe, are important. The police have to get the resources they're asking for. We have the rules today, but this won't be prioritised. This is to avoid this being misused. That is why I would like to mention the proposals in the vote, with the exception of proposal No. 1, which reads: «The Government is requested, at the latest, to provide for the establishment of the posts provided for by the Storting in the adoption of the law on watchkeeping activities in the context of the Revised National Budget.» The revision has now been presented, and this has not been followed up. The minority will then return to this matter in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e722	Is it so to understand that proposal No. 1 is drawn?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e725	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e730	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the suggestions she mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e733	The Ministry of Justice has already started work on a review of the law. assess whether the current legislation is sufficient to ensure the necessary quality and control in the weights industry. In this regard, we see a fundamental distinction between the plurality – Labour Party and SV – on the one hand, and the Right and Advance Party on the other. Firstly, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party point out that the link between the use of power and profit is very unfortunate, and we are opposed to the privatisation of the authorities' strictest coercive practices. Secondly, to attribute police positions to follow-up only by the watchkeeping companies will be to put this as an absolute priority of the police's duties. We have agreed that the watchkeeping company is a major improvement potential, and that something should be done. The majority requests that the Ministry of Justice, in the context of the review of the law on watchkeeping, assess a fee scheme for the control of watchkeeping companies, a fee reflecting the actual cost incurred by the police in carrying out this check. The fee must therefore be returned to the district under control. Such a fee will be consistent with a fee, for example: by the use of weapons cards, their controllers, etc. In addition, we ask that an annual fee be assessed instead of a one-time fee, as we have today. Both the previous government, Bondevik II, and this government have agreed that the earmarking of the settings for controlling the watchkeeping company will be wrong. The police director's follow-up to the law on custodians has been carried out by the normal prioritisation of the work within the Police Directorate and the police districts' regular budget. We have noticed that the Right also meant this as long as they were in government. The third point that we're essentially in disagreement about is the obligation of warning. This requires a thorough screening before it is introduced, if appropriate. One open objection is that criminal offences that are irrelevant to their ability to do the work will seem exclusive to those who have completed the work, who have already settled themselves. This is essentially to say in plain text that a person does not believe in rehabilitation. The fourth point we do not agree on is that the weight-bearing industry is so special that it will have a blank mandate to test its candidates for suspicion of drug or drug use. It is not a question of concluding a voluntary agreement between employer and employee, but a blank agent for employer, even in the event of suspicion. All such research will be stapled with error sources, and in the view of the majority, it should be an unhidden instance that has the sampling and evaluation of the results. The prosecution authority should continue to investigate whether any illegal activity has occurred. So the majority sees no obvious reason why the watchkeeping companies should have rules and premises other than other public and private service industries. When it comes to the point of amending the law in order to require a police record, we point out that this is also possible within today's law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e752	After TV 2's revelations, I think most people are concerned that something is being done to ensure that something is done about the parts of the watch industry that are unprofessional and snore about organized crime, and not about reprisals of the message about the snow that fell some time under different governments – fortunately it has not yet arrived. But no parties in this room have followed the law of watchkeeping well enough since we made decisions in our time in this room. The representative Horne has said the most in his post in relation to the need for better control. But in the future, it is also important to ask the question: What does the watch business actually mean for Norway? It consists of 10,000-12000 people and has a turnover of NOK 6-7 billion, divided into 260 companies. In relation to the debate that has been linked to how to ensure better control of the part of the grey zone market that TV 2 has revealed, and the possibility for the industry itself to take even greater responsibility in terms of training and security – I say more deliberately, because the split layer envisaged by the law has been deprived politically, while the industry has established Safe Guard and Security School – we have not followed up. But another very important question is, what would the proceeds have been without the industry? It could actually be fun to figure out what the effect would be in relation to the demands of the police and the public if it was assumed that the 10,000-12000 jobs were shut down. In addition to not providing a single alternative to the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party, the lines are also presented as if the private security industry were stealing tasks from the police, and there were a few comments about public monopoly on power use. The representative Hegø pointed out that the government is opposed to the privatisation of power use, and that there is no link between power and profit. I believe that it is on the frontier of advocating the right of the kind of principled attitude to such a serious issue, and I would actually ask the representative Hegø to confirm that the Right does not have the view that we will allow private exercise of police coercion and use of power. I would like to ask for concrete details of where our programme is based. No one disagrees about it, actually. I would have thought that the Labour Party's representative was concerned with the fact that grey-zone guards were harassing young women at some outings, for example. in this city, because there is no control over the individual companies providing their services. Then I would like to have been more offensive about making concrete actions rather than working with the kind of polemics we have seen here now. The situation is that the watchkeeping industry is doing tasks that the police have not been interested in, or rarely have done. The aim must be to achieve good cooperation between the public and private, the police and the watch industry. I would like to say on behalf of the Right that the industry itself provides security every day, and it is really not much required that the public also now make sure to contribute good control procedures beyond what the industry itself can provide, even if you can never guard 100 pst. Because there is no sustainable situation in which there are almost a few people — fires — who are doing good, who provide control in the Oslo police district, while control has been almost absent in the rest of the country. But one thing, finally, which has been positive about the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party have got focus on this matter, is that now there are actually more police districts that have carried out control, and they have found that things are fine. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is important not to stigmatise those who work in the watch industry, simply because there is a lot of work going on for some people. There are weights in Bergen, for example. who have been hounded and yelled at on the street because it was assumed that there were weights who were driving violently and systematically driving and harassing people. I think it is important that we all now join forces to ensure good confidence in the watch industry, too, so that the individuals, the 10,000-12,000 working there, get a decent job situation. Then we release the kind of events that we have also seen in Bergen after the unfortunate episodes, and that the Right Party and the Advance Party want to – preventively – take action against, so you make sure that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e767	As previously heard in the debate, government parties believe that the use of power should be handled by the public and subject to public instructions. The SV and the Government do not want the privatisation of the police and the prison system and believe that the most stringent enforcement by the authorities is to be carried out by the public. Nevertheless, it is doubtful that watchkeeping companies contribute to the security of many businesses and individuals, and it is therefore important to ensure good quality and control of the weighting industry. As has been said, the Ministry of Justice has launched a review of the Act on Civil Protection in order to clarify the limits of responsibility between police and security agencies and to ensure the necessary quality and control of the industry. With regard to the proposed amendment of the law to require a police record, we refer to letters from the Minister of Justice that this is possible even today in the current law. A change of rules is therefore not necessary. With regard to the proposal that the police should be obliged to notify the management of a watchkeeping company if one of their employees has committed criminal offences or is under investigation suspected of serious criminal offences, we believe that this is something that requires thorough monitoring and investigation before considering the possibility of introducing such a rule. The SV and the Labour Party consider that an important objection to such a proposal is that in some cases there may be criminal offences that are not relevant to the ability of the former convicted offender to carry out the work. Such a rule could then seem exclusive in relation to getting into work after an end to the settlement. The government has a strong focus on helping former convicted people to come back to society after an end of reconciliation, and this is something SV has been particularly concerned about. Although the police do not have an obligation to inform the watchkeeping company, it must be expected that such a warning will occur in cases where the police believe that they are unfit to work as a weight guard because of past criminal offences. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the proposal to test sentinels in case of suspicion of drug abuse. We believe that this might violate the employee's integrity, and would necessarily mean that an unhidden body would have to take the tests and be responsible for the test results. We believe that in the event of a suspected crime, it is the responsibility of the prosecution authority to identify whether anything unlawful has happened. As we have shown in the setting, there are certain industries, such as: exploration and drilling activities in the North Sea, which have their own systems for such sampling, because it is particularly necessary to ensure the freedom of use in that working environment. We believe that private security companies are not in a special position in relation to other private and public service industries that should ensure that such controls should be opened up by the employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e791	First, some fundamental considerations. It is quite obvious that the coercive power of society is public. I would like to say that, because we sometimes get access to suggestions locally, not least in this city, that we should also have a municipal police force. The left is a principal and strong opponent of such a way of thinking. We have a national, uniform police, and that's how it should be. But it's a fact that we have a weights business, and then I'm going to say two things before I say something more about it. We still have a better ratio between that industry overall and the police in Norway than in many other countries. The left has the impression that in a country like ours we need more policemen. We're going to get back to that in other contexts. So back to the business. My experience with the industry is that there are many serious actors, but the serious actors, in a society where many feel insecurity, demand a practical handshake from the authorities. I feel that the purpose of the proposal is to put pressure on such thinking. I perceive that the purpose of the proposal is especially that when you, for example, For example, in the United Kingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the European Union increased from one country to another. on the Gardermoen, that you're facing German, fine, there's nothing wrong with German citizens – it's really okay, when you talk to someone, that you know that they know where they are, and that they know how to deal with others. It's something about the way we introduce someone to a job. We are in favour of labour immigration, but there is something about the general requirements. So I want to give credit to the proposers for bringing this up, and I have to admit that developments in this area have surprised me. I believe that the government parties are well aware that this is the case, but then it often becomes as it is in Stortinget when someone has a proposal for a representative, that it is not as good to vote for it. Now I choose to take this in the best possible sense. I choose to add to the sitting government and the sitting Minister of Justice that this is a matter that you want to have control of. I'll take that into account. I also assume that no one should interpret either the Right Party or the Advance Party so that it is an expression of the desire to privatize the police. It is a thought whose obvious madness is so clear that it should not even be reproduced from this pulpit. I would take it as a bit insulting to ask someone to confirm that they do not mean it either. I'm assuming there's no one here in the hall that can mean anything so special. So back to the concrete suggestions, and I'm going to sort something out. I see it as proposal No. 1 is subtracted. The left will vote in favour of the proposal No. 2, 5 and 6, because they're obviously very principleal and bearer of the idea of providing support to the serious actors in the weight industry. They are also central to creating a clean relationship of cooperation between the police, such as civil society's coercion authority, and the weight industry. Proposal No. 2 is about how to guarantee the quality of the people you employ. Proposal No. 5 goes on the further development of an approval system described from the pulpit earlier. Proposal No. 6 is just about to know who people are, through the ID system you're talking about. With regard to proposals Nos. 3 and 4, I think that the government parties have had good comments on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The left believes that in principle you should not be disqualified from a job because you have done something criminally. But there may be specific events that lie behind when a court will state that you should be disqualified from a job. I believe that the police here should exercise the discretion expressed by the majority in their comments. When it comes to getting close to drugs, I have the same idea as the majority, that I want to base the relationship, which should be at any job, that you don't rush. But I'll follow that development in particular and keep it in mind, but I'm hesitating to go as far as the proposers do. It's obvious that there's the situation in the police, that you can't have it like this. But I sympathise with the purpose of the proposals No. 3 and 4, but will not vote for them today. In voting today, I ask that the proposals be split up in such a way that the Left can vote in favour of proposal No. 2, 5 and 6, submitted. Then I'll finish where I started. I would like to commend the proposers for their pressure on an important area of society. I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we in Norway have not come so far as some other societies, that we have got a country of emphasis instead of a state where there are still strong social control mechanisms between people, and where it is still so that the police have solid and strong confidence, because that is the situation in our society. That's why it calls on us all when we deal with the situation of the police later, that we make sure that there are enough people, that there are enough resources. It's a debate that belongs in a completely different context. But once again, I take the proposers in the best opinion, and I think the representative Dahl is going to perceive his own question as clearly answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e815	Initially, I would like to point out that it was laid down in the Regeringa Platform, the Soria Moria Declaration, that the law on watchkeeping of 5 January 2001 is to be reviewed with a view to clearer regulation. I have noted the comments of the majority of the Judicial Committee on Document No. The 8-proposal that we are examining now, on increased control of private watchkeeping companies, including the assumption that the majority of the entries are included in the further processing in the review of the law. Of course it will be done. The Ministry of Justice has started work on the review of the law on watchkeeping activities, as to whether regulation is sufficient to ensure good quality in the industry, whether the legislation adequately ensures the legal certainty of those coming into contact with the industry and whether control regulation is sufficient. As regards proposal No: 1 of Document No The 8-proposal, on posts, may refer to the answers I have given to the Storting on written questions on the same topic, and which are to a large extent the same answers as the previous government gave to the same issue in relation to the designation of posts. As far as proposal No is concerned. 2 with regard to standard requirements for employees, reference may be made to provisions of Section 7 of the Safeguards Act, cf. the regulation § 4. The third paragraph of Section 4 of the Regulation states that a police record may also be required after the addition of special reasons. I have also noticed that the majority of the committee has shown this. The third proposal concerns the obligation to notify, which is currently regulated by the regulation of the third paragraph of Section 4 of the watch activity. With regard to the fourth proposal, I would like to point out that this is a fundamental issue which, if necessary, needs to be seen in a broader context and which will also have a topicality for a number of professional groups other than weightings. Having said that, like the Committee, I would also like to point out that the main purpose of the safeguard law, among other things. was to improve the quality of weighting services, improve official controls and enhance legal certainty for those coming into contact with the weighing instruments. There are also regulations given to this law. The Directorate of Police has also provided police districts with detailed guidelines for the handling of matters related to the Act on vigilance, including: in circular 2006/008 of 10 May 2006. In this newsletter, the Directorate has provided detailed guidance on police proceedings and monitoring of watchkeeping companies — dealing with matters related to the law on watchkeeping. An important objective is that the proceedings should be consistent regardless of the police district in which the case is dealt with. The weight industry has been in focus lately. The role of instruments is mainly limited to observing, controlling and reporting. It is important to ensure that watchkeeping activities are conducted by serious operators. This is in order to ensure a minimum level to be satisfied by all operators in the watch industry and if customers are satisfied when buying watch services, and of course also in terms of public confidence. The industry has also helped to focus on safety and employment. The industry has taken two important measures for self-control, respectively the establishment of Safe Guards, the control body of the industry, and the Security School, which is responsible for ensuring the uniform training of weighing instruments. The Ministry of Justice has also met with the trade unions for the employees in the weighting industry. The Ministry considers this dialogue to be important in order to ensure a positive development of the industry, serious actors and good self-control procedures. Furthermore, good dialogue with the police is important. As mentioned at the outset, the Ministry is in the process of reviewing the law on watchkeeping. In this context, the experience of the Police Directorates and the police districts with the law and police control and follow-up of the law will also be important. On this basis, the Ministry has obtained further information from the Directorate on the status of improved control of watchkeeping companies. We'll now review this material. Furthermore, a working group with specified mandates will be considered to review the law. This as to whether regulation is sufficient to ensure good quality in the industry, and in the light of the other considerations I have mentioned earlier. This work will take into account the comments of the majority of the Committee and also the other proposals on what is desired in the context of the review of the law. Finally, I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Justice, as has been said, has met with the trade unions. The Ministry considers this dialogue to be important in order to ensure a positive development in the industry, and in particular in the matter of self-control. I would also like to point out the work that the police's data and material service has done in washing lists in relation to the background control that is being carried out. I believe that there is indeed a very important step taken in 2006, where there is a possibility of much more effective background control than we have seen in the past, and which is perhaps much more important than the previous proposal, of a number of posts to sit and check. That you actually get a system that allows you to wash these lists regularly, I think is tricked. I believe that both the data and material service of the police and the police director in this way are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e852	We have many rights in this country, and we have rights that can easily be revoked, for example. taxi drivers, if they have done something wrong. But for the weights industry, where, as the Council of State took up, there has been some focus on the fact that there have been some broken-down crews who have been employed, there is no license or ID card that the police can easily withdraw. Does the Council of State see that there is a difference here, that for some industries there are ID cards or permits that can easily be withdrawn if something has gone wrong, while for this industry, which is a little special, and which is especially important for both industry and for ordinary people, there are no such rights that can easily be revoked by the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e859	Now, licenses and ID cards are really two different things. You can operate with ID cards even if you don't have permission systems, and vice versa. The criteria that are already in the law to be able to operate this type of activity are, of course, the review we are about to have. I agree with the questioner, the representative Nistad, that this is an activity that absolutely needs public regulation, and I promise that in the review that we have now announced, and in the working group that is set up, we will also include the proposals contained in Document No. The 8 proposal and see if they are relevant. This applies, inter alia, to: the issue of authorisation schemes is good enough in such an important exercise of industry and also the issue of ID cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e866	It is possible to clarify today that one does not want to vote in favour of the Right and the Advance Party's proposal to ensure better control of the unprofessional sector and to help strengthen the serious sector's control and quality. However, in addition to pointing to the industry itself and referring to investigations, what concrete measures does the Council of State see possible to be implemented separately to ensure better official control as part of the fissure layer provided for at the time of the adoption of the law on watchkeeping activities? The representative, Mr Dørum, is a very sympathetic man, but not a spokesman for the ruling parties. Can the Council of State clarify that he himself does not consider that the Right wants to privatize power use?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e873	Without necessarily defending much: I feel the representative of Dørum's input into this as very constructive. This is a relationship with which the previous government worked a lot, and with which the current government is working a lot. I am glad that we have lifted the debate from the track that was about five earmarked posts, where I understood that my predecessor was as agreed as I am in that it is not really about this matter. It is really about the extent to which we should approach regulation. I do not intend, as Stortinget has certainly understood, to dismiss these proposals now, all the time we are working on the review of the guardian company law. I just want to stress the importance of having a very clear and clear regulation, and an effective regulation, which we can enforce. There I would say, if I understand the representative Dahl there to point out something concrete, that what I said in my statement about the efforts of the police data and material service now to do the washing of lists is very effective, to the extent that you want the standards of good conduct to be implemented effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e882	I had another question to the Council of State. It was whether the Council of State can demand that the Right assume that some form of use of power should be privatized.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e887	Time goes by, and I have more than enough to defend and tell about the government's good initiatives to have to start explaining what the Right really thinks about the privatisation of power use. It's got to be on the right side of the sea. But I have experienced it so that the Right has been a driver in particular. privatising the prisoner transport and having disagreed that the Government has reversed it. It is an important element of public coercion when transporting people under coercion. Should this happen privately, I do not believe that the Right has had a clean-haired line in relation to the important principle that I believe lies there, that when public and government are to impose coercion on citizens, it should be done in their own right, inter alia. in order to ensure that it is carried out properly and within the applicable guidelines and that there is no commercial interest in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e892	So the line change is over. The President has doubts as to whether the characterisation of the policies of others as ‘pure-haired’ is in line with the Rules of Procedure, but will allow the doubt to benefit the Council of State. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e899	After hearing some of the speeches from the socialist parties here, the Workers' Party and SV, I have the impression that maybe many of them don't quite know what the weight industry is about, or that they're trying to hide it. I look forward to the government now making a proposal on how to approach the weight industry, so we get the debate away from cheap rhetoric about the privatisation of power, which has so far been the approach of the socialist parties. Because that's not what this is about. It's about getting control of an industry that depends on trust. The industry operates, among others: with aerodrome safety at Gardermoen. I don't know if the government plans to remove it in the next budget, get public employees and use the police on it, or whether it's socio-economically right to use the weighting industry on it. Will the Council of State and the Government spend money on letting the police run transport, or will they say that it might be socio-economically better for the weight industry to do so? Do you want to hire police or public servants at all the bombs that pop up under this government? I don't think so. There's some weights there, too. I think it's socio-economically right that you have an important business and that you give it tasks. But if you give that task and trust, you also have to make sure that trust is real. The Justice Committee has been a round in the Balkans now. We still have new EU countries, which can also come here and offer their services, perhaps also weight-bearing services. And just in the absence of police, which has been a problem under both this and former governments, a private watch business has developed — including in such countries. Will they be allowed to work here in Norway without our control, without the police having a standard of conduct, without us being able to withdraw the rights of the individual criminal guards who may come here and who are unfortunately here? The representatives of the Workers' Party have also talked about the employees and the workers' situation, and how stigmatizing and ill-tuning that control might be. I myself have worked as an instrument of weight, and I have funded my studies as an instrument of weight. Then I drove, among other things. value-added transport. It was a few months after I stopped, ransacked in the Drammen, at the central bank. If there was one thing I wanted, it was that I knew that the person sitting next to me had a decent reputation, that he had honest intentions, that the company knew about it, and that I could trust that person. Unfortunately, we have seen a lot – in Sweden too – of money transport. Just in order to avoid this, just having confidence and security at the workplace, this control is important. That's why I hope you don't take that suspicion in relation to power and capital. I also believe that abuse of power should be avoided whether it is public or private. I'll end by saying that we have to think forward here, we have to admit that the watch business is here. And then we get to do our part to see what it should do, what it should do. But until then, at least we have to have good control of the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e912	I am going to elaborate on what I said in the introduction to my article instead, because I do not want the representative Dahl to lose the night sleep before he travels on a Pentecostal holiday. What I started with was that the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party point out that the link between the use of power and profit is unfortunate, and that we are against the privatisation of the authorities' strictest enforcement. That we point this out doesn't actually mean that everyone else thinks the opposite. Our starting point is that the use of power means should be handled by the public and subject to public instructions. We don't want a privatisation of the police and prison system. That's why we have a lot of things to do. initiatives to halt private prisoner transport and bet on the public, and on more rational solutions. I want to say a little bit more about the weight gain industry, as I now have the word again. It is desperation that a watchkeeping company supports the fact that many companies and individuals experience increased security, and that the industry thus has an important function. Then it is important to have a clear division of labour between the guard companies and the police and the prison services. That's why we're now going through the law on law enforcement to clarify the boundaries of responsibility between the police and the guard company, as is also evident in the Soria Moria Declaration. We have seen many examples of unprofessional operators in the industry, where unqualified weights almost help to increase security rather than increase security. It's a problem for society, and not least for the serious players in the industry. I think we're all here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e922	I think the representative of the Progress Party asked very timely questions about how the Government perceives that important societal tasks will be solved in the future. I have not seen any suggestions to remove the number of weightings on the Gardermoen in favour of e.g. police officers. With regard to the anti-truth episodes that have been on the Gardermo, where people have actually felt harassed and stigmatized, one would think, with the genuine commitment of the Workers' Party to the abuse of power and the commercialisation of power, that one should see an enormous commitment to what has happened there. I haven't seen that. Probably it is a confession that it will cost money, and that you do not have money for it on the justice budget. Finally, I am going to assure the representative Hegø that it is going to have more to do than hear traditional working party rhetoric and disclaimer to remove the night sleep from a Right-Handman.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e929	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3128]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e942	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e965	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, from Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e992	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1031	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 3, by André Oktay Dahl, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 4, by Aud Kvalbein on behalf of Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 3 is included in the setting. Proposals Nos. 4 and 5 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative amendments that allow the prohibition of ongoing conduct that disturbs the general calm, order or movement at or in the immediate vicinity of a public place in municipal police regulations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1060	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to clarify the basis for the operation of the police reserve and to facilitate the organisation of a summer exercise in which police reserve personnel participate with a view to preventing an increasing aggressive begging, sales and prostitution activity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1075	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative amendments that allow municipal police regulations to decide that no one in or in the immediate vicinity of the public place must provide sexual services or engage in begging or selling which in an ongoing manner disturbs the general tranquility, order or movement.’ The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1109	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Storting asks the Government in connection with the ‘North Sea Divers’ case to refrain from appealing to limitation.2. The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal for a law amending Law 18 May 1979 No. 18 on the limitation of claims [[Law of limitation]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1152	In the course of the debate, Mr Horne presented five proposals, the proposals No. 2 to 6 on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1189	The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 2 and proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1194	Are there any more explanations of vote? - It's not. The first thing to vote on is proposals Nos. 2 and 6, then on proposal No. 5 and finally on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1228	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? Siv Jensen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1240	I have requested the floor in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure. For the record, the President-in-Office of the Council has agreed to this. The reason I am asking for the floor is that yesterday’s edition of the Dagsrevyen found that a mentally ill asylum seeker is now paroled from the Trondheim prison and, against all recommendations, placed at an open reception in Vadsø. It happens despite the fact that we have several enhanced receptions, where the purpose is that you also have to have enhanced psychiatric staff. This means that this man, convicted of attempted killing – he has stabbed a human being, with seven stabs, because he was not allowed to borrow a mobile phone – and who is declared mentally unstable, is now placed at an open reception in Vadsø, at the risk of residents in the area and at the risk of others at the same reception. I believe that the government must explain what they intend to do in this matter. It is totally irresponsible for a person considered so dangerous that the prison in Trondheim would not release him to prison to be paroled – for that is parole – when one has nevertheless come to an open reception. I believe that the Government should explain this, and I have asked that the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, come to the Stortinget at the end of the big meeting to do so. He is in Trondheim, I have been told, but I have also understood that the Council of State Storberget is present and can explain the matter. I am pleased because this must be contrary to the legal position of any person. We have a system where we have established enhanced reception with just extra psychiatric staff to take care of these types of people. Nevertheless, it has been possible to reach this conclusion. I believe it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that action is taken immediately, so that this person cannot walk through the weekend freely in Vadsø. Then the whole purpose of enhanced reception is gone. This I think, with all due respect, that the government must take hold of immediately, for this kind of thing cannot happen. I expect the government to do its job to solve this -- on this side of the pint.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1253	The President will make Stortinget aware that it has been a long time since the second paragraph of Section 37a was used. In the meantime, some parts of the Rules of Procedure have also been amended. The last time this paragraph was used, such a question was dealt with under the old rules on reasoned questions, which no longer exist. To the knowledge of the Storting, the president will follow the old system. This means that the person who gets the consent of the prime minister to raise questions in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 37(a) will have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. The member of the Government to respond shall have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Then the questioner is given the opportunity to ask an additional question of 1 minute, and the Council of State is given an equivalent 1 minute to answer. No one else has the opportunity to take the floor. - Councillor Knut Storberget will have the floor!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1258	I can assure the representative Siv Jensen and so far the Stortinget that the grip has already been taken on this matter. However, this does not prevent me from saying that we are here in the storeroom to exercise some caution in carrying out specific proceedings around individuals. There are many elements that deserve thorough treatment in these kinds of cases, primarily to ensure what is the government's two main objectives: 1st@item: inlistbox People who pose a safety risk to themselves or to others shall be surrounded by a type of safety that prevents relapse, to the extent that they have committed previous crime.2. To the extent that there is no basis for him to be in this country, he shall be dispatched as soon as possible. I want to say, however, that it has already been initiated, through the department I run, the police, a full review of this matter, in the light of what we were informed about last night via the media. The first and most important thing to do is, of course, to give the police the necessary control over this type of situation. It's already started. The second thing, which is important, and which the representative of Jensen also touched on, is that the prison has made it known that they did not want to release him. I have asked for a report on exactly that relationship – on the background for this, and on the reason why he is now there. I am asking for an understanding that we have not yet received this information. Of course, I'm ready to give that information to Stortinget when it comes. It is quite clear that we have more alternatives and questions about how to meet people who are in a situation where you pose a safety risk. I've been in charge of police control. The question of enhanced reception is justified. I have been informed that my fellow State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is ready to respond to this when he returns to Oslo. He puts in the Storting next week to the extent that there is a need for it, to explain precisely to his constitutional responsibility. I would also like to point out that those who are now responsible for matters relating to the law on mental health protection, and in particular the Minister for Health, have asked for an explanation of what kind of action has actually been taken in relation to that part of the situation, but also in general as to the extent to which the tracks under the law on mental health protection can be used, where one can also apply coercive measures when he has completed his punishment, which seems to be the case in this case. Then it is known to the Storting that the Government has started to go through the entire detention centre, so that just dangerous prisoners can be accommodated after committing a serious criminal offence, and so that they have the opportunity to extend their stay to the extent necessary from a security point of view. I also point out that in this diagram in relation to assessing more security, the government has now also taken an initiative to send out people who do not have a residence permit here in the country. I have been informed today, but I have to make a reservation about it because this quickly came to mind, that the person we are talking about here was actually granted a stay in 2003. But that's what I reserve. We will also inform you about that. In the case of those who have not stayed in the country, the government has taken action, and we will reinforce that. We see that it's useful. When people have served their punishment, and we have the opportunity to return, they are now under greater pressure in relation to having to travel back. We have done this through two steps: first of all, we are making a full review of the possibilities to conclude both bilateral and multilateral agreements, but we are now moving far more into prisons and looking at who is entitled to be sent on completion, and they are now actually being sent out as well. My hope is that during the year this year we will see that it has produced results – that more people will actually be sent out. I think it also has a bearing on safety. People in many situations will actually need to come home to their own country. A person is given greater opportunities to start social rehabilitation when in his or her own country, thereby minimizing the safety risk. There is no doubt that the Government takes such a situation seriously. We have asked for a full review of this matter – from the health trail, the legal trail and also the integration trail, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion. We are prepared to provide information when it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1291	I appreciate the fact that, at such short notice, the Minister of Justice gave such a full account. But what I am asking for is, of course, that the Storting properly gets a full account of what has actually gone wrong in this case. I understand that the Council of State cannot give today. What I also ask is that you do something very specific about this person, so that he won't stay in an open reception through the pink. We have enhanced reception. There should be full opportunity to relocate him/her to an enhanced reception with psychiatric staff. If this person is not qualified for an enhanced reception, who in the world is it? That's what I'm asking the government to deal with. If a majority government can't do that, there's something seriously wrong with the Norwegian system, with the government's governing law, and with the possibility of intervening in these kinds of cases. I expect the government to take action – that it will ensure that this person is put in an enhanced reception and not in an open reception. I record from the media that this person is parole. It clearly implies that he has not completed the zone. Still, you've done it. I expect and demand that the Government take an urgent action. Then I appreciate the fact that Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is willing to come to Stortinget next week and give a fuller account. That's what I expect is going on. However, there may be procedural errors and how to prevent such cases from occurring in the future. But again: I demand and expect the government to do something immediately in this specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1302	If we were to have managed security issues in the Norwegian community in the way that we almost made political decisions about individuals, I'm afraid that we would be in high security risk. That's why I think it's important that the bodies that are actually set to deal with these issues also do it. We won't get anywhere if we don't build on a system that actually contributes to it. But I also believe that in my main response to the representative Jensen, I indicated that the government is taking this matter very seriously, and that we are actually getting what is needed to reach the necessary decisions. Action has already been taken, both through the health trail and through the police, to contribute to safety. The information now provided will, of course, also form the basis for the fastest possible assessment by the Government in relation to the question of location in a specially screened reception. At least I will assure the representative Jensen that it will be done in a short time, and in fact is under work. But I want to warn against a personification of this type of debate that contributes to the fact that we are in the long term left with a result that means weakened security.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1311	That concludes the question. Does anyone request any more words under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? Mrs Solberg has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1318	I am a little uncertain about the Rules of Procedure on this point, but I would like to comment on the question that was raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1323	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1327	It's not that I can comment on that question? –
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1332	No, no, no. The President explained the way he would deal with it, and then no one objected to the President's statement that others would not be given the floor. But of course, the President will, at the request of Erna Solberg, investigate how these kinds of questions have been dealt with earlier. If this is the case, as Erna Solberg suggests, that others will also have the floor, it will be done next time. But it's been a while since this happened. The president explained the procedure for the question from Siv Jensen, and there were no objections at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1335	I believe, according to what it says, that each party has the right to make an article in the follow-up of a statement from a Council of State in the Chamber. We'll have to take it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25.ana.ud1754e1340	We're going to do that. The President shall examine this. There was no explanation from the Council of State Knut Storberget. This was a question within the meaning of the second paragraph of Section 37a, a question and an answer. Of course, the question of whether others should also be able to speak in such cases should be examined by the President. If the President has been wrong, the President will apologize. But the president explained in advance how it was to be done, and no objections came at that time. Does anyone request any more words under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
