ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e75	The representatives Heikki Holmås and Hans Olav Syversen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen from 13 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Knut Gjerde, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e101	Knut Girde is present and will take the seat. The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e106	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Kenneth Svendsen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself to facilitate an overall review of the conditions that children in coastal hospitals were exposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e111	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the Storting goes to the handling of matters on today's map, there will be a vote over the matter that was being dealt with in the Storting yesterday, budget-inner. S. No 2, from the Family and Culture Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e126	During the debate, 34 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1,13-17, 25 and 27-34, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, No. 2-10, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 11, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 12 and No 26, by Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 18, from Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 19-23, by Ola T. Lånke on behalf of Christian People's Party proposal No. 24, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left As regards proposal No: 24, from the Left, it must be considered to be a framework-dependent proposal and therefore cannot be put to the vote. The proposal thus lapses. We shall then vote on the minority proposals, and we shall start with the proposals No. 19–23, from the Christian People's Party. With regard to proposals Nos. 19, 20 and 23, there may be some doubts as to whether they could have a budgetary effect in 2008 and therefore be framework-dependent and contrary to the budgetary procedure rules. However, the President chooses to use an interpretation which implies that the definitive implementation of the measures contained in the proposals will be a little longer in time and will only take effect in the budget for 2009. First, there will be a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the Government to step up the adoption aid to 1 G during the ageing period.’ The President assumes that the Left wants to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e175	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 19 and 21-23, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e211	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 18, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling requests the submission by the Government of a case guaranteeing women the right to parental leave as at the previous birth, when there is less than 24 months between the pregnancies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e226	There will be a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 13–17, 25 and 27–34, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e3266	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 12 and No 26, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e3291	There will be a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Grand Duchy to bring a case before the Grand Duchy in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget, which means that responsibility for the lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 years and over will be transferred from the foreign authorities to the child protection system from 1 September 2008.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e3306	There will be a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-10, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6423	Then we go over to the questions on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6437	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. The President will draw attention to the fact that the Workers' Party has given away 5 of its 40 minutes to one of the Councils of State of the Socialist Left Party. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6448	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for its good work and for its good cooperation. Everyone has contributed in their own way, both through the rapporteurs and to the whole. When we stood here one year ago and debated the budget for 2007, there were enough people who felt quite confident that the government would not repeat such a weak budget for research and higher education also for 2008. I was one of those who felt pretty sure of it. After very much and highly reasoned criticism of the Government, from really all parts of Research Norway and higher Education Norway, we were many who were proud that the Government took the criticism over and listened. We prided our rhetoric on the fact that the cuts to universities, colleges and research were a breakwater. And not least, the institutions planned out of it. Former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal said at a time that the entire cutting of rest was a loss, which he had actually warned against. Everyone had reason to expect that the cuts were fixed in the 2008 budget, and that it was really bet, but we were wrong. The surprise was great on 5 October, when the 2008 budget was presented, and it turned out that the cut-off continued – that there was no commitment to research and higher education now either. Arvid Hallén, Managing Director of the Research Council, said in a press release that this is an "extremely weak budget" for research. Nor has there been any lack of criticism from the university and higher education sectors, especially because the institutions are now laying down their budgets for 2008, and that is where the really big cuts come – cut as the government should have corrected. In an interview with Nettavisen on 12 September this year, Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal said, ‘We have done an impressive job in two years’ time.’ I'm not sure if the students at the University of Oslo believe that Regeringa has done a particularly impressive job. They hardly sleep with a smile, because at the University of Oslo it has to be cut 205 million. kr in 2008. That, of course, hits the study quality very hard. At NTNU, the chemistry students have been halved in their laboratory time and halved in their lectures. I don't think they're particularly impressed with Regeringa, and I don't think they're sleeping with a smile either. Small languages are in acute danger of being abandoned, and the environment disappears rapidly. At teaching places around that have small language skills, neither students nor teachers sleep with a smile. The quality of general teacher training is reduced when less money is spent. I don't think future students are going to think that the government did a particularly impressive job of getting them good teachers. It's in good times that we can bet on what's important. As Jens Stoltenberg said in the 2005 Accession Declaration; this government will spend the great money on the big tasks. But in terms of research and higher education, we've only seen a government doing the big cuts on the big ones. This government has NOK 130 billion more available than the Bondevik government had when it went off in 2005 – NOK 130 billion more! It's just at a time when the world's luckiest government has historically a lot of money to manage and distribute, that it's going to cut into what's going to secure Norway's future. So it had to be a government where SV is in control of the knowledge policy, before we experienced great cuts in research and higher education. SV had to have control of the Ministry of Knowledge before we learned that the quality reform in higher education is no longer fully funded. While all the current government parties, as they used to, voted in favour of the objectives of the Research Communication, today's government parties have systematically failed in their goals. The really big paradox here is that to the extent that some party was concerned with other goals and ambitions than the research message drew up, it was just SV who wanted even more money for research. Then it's pretty funny that it's just with SV in the government that the targets fail. This government has also resorted to a practice using the returns of the Research Fund that are contrary to its intentions. The fund was intended to ensure safe and long-term funding for research, but in the last two years the practice has been changed so that the money is largely used to cover current operating costs. Examples include the quota in the 7th Framework Programme of the EU, the funding of scholarship positions, and funding for the International Polar Year. And why is this serious? Well, besides spending the money on long-term research, and without the bonds that we now see, it obviously also contributes to another thing: it makes sure that the government doesn't find new money for research, so the total amount of research is reduced. Instead, the government takes up some small money from savings to research and uses it to cover ordinary budget lines. Several representatives from the government parties have commented on the criticism of a comprehensive University, Higher Education and Research Norway that they are happy to have an impatient and ambitious sector. It's very sad that the sector doesn't have an impatient and ambitious government. When representatives from the government parties say that the government should be measured on what it does, that's exactly what's going on right now. The government is measured by the lack of willingness to bet, despite the fact that no government has ever had so much money to bet, if only they would. It is not measured against previous governments, it is measured against the Research Communication – unanimously adopted by the Stortinget in 2005 – and it is measured against the Quality Reform, and this is where the Government fails again. The right has found room in its alternative budget to increase the investment in education and research by over DKK 1.2 billion. In addition, we're increasing the Research Fund by $20 billion. So that means over $1 billion more for research in 2009. Within the 1.2 billion mentioned, our main efforts are to correct the government's budget to universities and colleges of 275 million. kr, correct the cuts in the SkattenFUNN scheme, bet on senior measures to get the real-time teachers to stay longer in the job and give money to an extra hour in youth mathematics. We also grant money – a necessary pledge – to several performances in the church. Right also wants to bet on postdoc positions, on summer school, on homework, and not least on better cooperation between schools and libraries. Right find money for student kindergartens, for capital grants to fresh schools and for equipment at universities and colleges. We strengthen the Research Council, and we grant more money for user-driven research. The results of the last few weeks from international and national studies conducted in the initial training have confirmed the analyses underlying the Knowledge Lift. The knowledge gap was gradually introduced from the autumn of 2006 and the students included in the PISA survey 2006 have not yet experienced the Knowledge promise. But whatever the reforms, it is both serious and important that Norwegian students lie two and a half years after their peers Finnish colleagues in the natural sciences, despite the fact that Norway has one of the world's highest resource efforts in school. I hope and believe that we will see an improvement in the results after the knowledge promise has begun to work. I think that, because here we are talking about the training of basic skills, about stronger demands, about higher learning pressures and, not least, better learning skills. The results of the national tests also show that efforts are useful. The Oslo school, which has it as well on paper, is called Norway's most demanding student group, with 37 pst. Minority students, therefore, do the best – much thanks to a very targeted, systematic and ambitious policy that has called for all students and that has had high ambitions on behalf of all students. In the autumn of 2005, when Oslo abandoned the plan ‘Norwegian as a second language’ and introduced a common Norwegian curriculum for all pupils, the results also began to emerge. That's what this is about. You make the students less dependent on their home background and give everyone an honest chance to succeed in school. The right-hand profile of the education budget is precisely aimed at giving all students an honest chance to succeed. That's why we're betting on homework. That's why we're betting in summer school, more math in youth, better teachers and more competence in school. The right now also has a proposal to deal with the Stortinget concerning the recruitment of more teachers and the improvement and strengthening of teacher competence. Politics is a priority, and the then Council of State Øystein Djupedal said to the evening post on 22 September 2005 that what we will do will be done. The Prime Minister, in his presentation of the budget each year, says that the budget is an expression of a real political priority. Then I can only understand that the 2008 budget is also an expression of this government's ability and will. This is how we once again get a budget that is bad for higher education and bad for research. It's striking, I think, that the more big words this government uses, the bigger the cut and less the money. Where the government does the big cuts for the big ones, the Right has chosen to prioritize the big money for the big ones. I take up the right-hand proposal in the vote, and the right-hand proposals are part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6494	The representative ine Marie Soreide Eriksen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6499	There are a number of proposals in this budget on the right. The representative Eriksen Soreide himself mentioned them: homework, summer school, math class, Research Council, senior education, etc. However, these measures are not in a position to pattern support among their former government counterparts. The fact that the Progress Party is on the side is something we all know, but that there is so much gap between the previous government parties is, to put it mildly, alarming. This suggests that the right no longer has the leadership position on the civil side of school policy. How will the representative Eriksen Soreide comment that the Left and Christian People's Party is not involved in the main right-wing initiative in initial training?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6506	As Mr Huitfeldt will have noticed, in the budgetary position there are a number of proposals that are being promoted jointly by all three previous government parties, and the Progress Party is also involved in many of the proposals. In addition, we stand together in almost all of our notes. But as Huitfeldt's representative also knows, these are four independent parties who want to indicate a direction where we go together, and that direction is very clear. It's a direction that's clear in research and higher education, it's a direction that's clear in knowledge, and it's in very sharp contrast to the direction that the Government Marine presents in this budget. After all, it is not a coincidence that once again there is criticism from all teams in University and Research Norway, simply because the budget is very poor in research, it is very poor in higher education, and it does not address the challenges facing Norway. So more than worrying about whether the former government parties are promoting joint proposals, Huitfeldt's representative should be seriously concerned about the government's own research and higher education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6513	It's a well-known phenomenon that in the opposition, the right-wing party uses the right-hand part of the time for welfare rhetoric. But history has taught us that when they come into position, they focus on economic-liberalist reforms, or, as the previous government did, they prioritise tax havens rather than welfare. In this area, they cut in student welfare, they cut in relationships, they cut in 180 million. They were unable to build half the number of student housing we're going to be able to build next year, they cut down 4,000 places of study, they suggested that they remove the scholarship. And let's not start talking about the community economy and the situation of basic education for that reason. Why should we believe that if the Right gets the chance again, they will give priority to welfare, they will give priority to school and education, research and higher education rather than tax and economic-liberalist reforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6520	I thank you for the question, because it gives a very good opportunity to light up what is the difference between the right and the left. When we were in government together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we actually managed to get two things at the same time. We were able to invest in research and higher education, while at the same time providing tax incentives that helped bring more money into the state fund in Norway, thus ensuring future and secure well-being. That was an important political priority. What's happening now is that we have a government that has 130 billion dollars more than any previous government has ever had, and yet it's going to be cut in research, cut in higher education and no commitment to what's important to ensure Norway's well-being for the future. That's why I think it's a big paradox. When we did a cut or downgraded number of places of study, it was a very honest and clean-haired cut. What this government is doing is saying that we're cutting $275 billion, but we expect exactly the same activity at the institutions, and leave it up to the institutions to figure out where to take the painful cuts that are now affecting students and the quality of study with full weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6529	I do not expect Eriksen Soreide to be able to do all these comments without it. I'm going to deal with this with special needs. It is that the government fraction plus at least the Christian People's Party has been careful to write about not wanting any special schools. Then the Progress Party has its own comment where they say they want to give an offer to someone outside of ordinary school. The right has chosen to stand outside of both of these. So I ask you, what does the Right really think about special schools and special education? How is this to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6538	Then I can point to an interpellation I sailed in the Stortingen last year, just about special education and how to integrate students with special needs. It is quite obvious that for a very large number of students — most of them — integration into the secondary school will be very good. But we also know, unfortunately, that for very many students it doesn't work at all, and they need other offers. We have also seen many examples of parents who are very concerned that their child should be used to ‘show’ that there are also children who have different needs than the needs of the majority. We have therefore said that we need to have a flexible approach to this, and there must be good offers in the municipalities that can cater for parents' wishes, whether they want integration or they want a special offer. But for a lot of parents, it's about that offer not being there, and that freedom of choice is not there. And just like all other students are very different, students with special needs are also very different. Some people are doing very well and really only have problems with language training, while the other times there are so many disabilities that they have problems getting their everyday lives around. We have therefore wanted to have a different approach to this matter from that of both the government parties and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6547	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6551	Several national and international studies have shown us over the past few weeks that every five students are below the critical limit of reading and writing. Some say there are so many other things that are important in school. I disagree. The school's most important task is to teach children and young people to read and write and to use our language. The attitude of some people, that it takes care of everyone, because some are theoretical and others are practical, doesn't stick to the question of reading and writing. These are those who are below the critical limit of reading, who drop out of high school, fall out of work at an early age and become untimely. We're assuming that 3-5 pst. students have difficulty reading and writing, but our numbers are far above this level. The former Minister of Education of the Right blamed the Workers' Party for producing similar results four years ago. Despite the fact that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have had the Council of State in the field of education for seven of the last ten years, I have not intended to follow her example by blaming the Right Party, but rather appealing to all parties to put aside their captors, to be able to prioritize and not call for action plans in all areas until we have arranged this. Thousands of action plans lead to paralysis. The school does not need any more creative goals; the school needs politicians who, over time, are able to hold on to some important policy objectives. That's why I want to invite all the parties to an agreement where we say that this goal is more important than any other goal in school. The government reinforces the work of first-class literacy training. And I must say that I am wondering about the Christian People's Party and the Left, which celebrated the hour-long expansion in the previous period, but which is now suddenly opposed. But, but – this promise will never be reversed. We're now on our way to full-time school. Early effort is important, because we want to give children the opportunity to learn while they are most motivated. And we'll spend more time, so the kids learn to break the read code. We introduce fruit and green to the youth. We continue the work with free learning materials. We strengthen the counselling service by sharing it in a career-oriented and social educational context and by establishing career centres in all professions. In all these areas, the opposition cracks. The fact that the Progress Party is on the side is no news, but the former government parties are very different in their priorities in this budget; they do not have a common plan for how to steer education policy in a new direction. They are supporters and opponents of the Government of different bet fields. It is most obvious that the right no longer has a leading role, which we did not get a response from the representative Eriksen Soreide in the line chord exchange instead. This budget also means a strong strengthening of research. There has never been so much money spent on research, and we have developed programmes in key areas: we are strengthening research in the north; we are strengthening health in relation to sick leave and exclusion; women's health; the maritime sector; and research-based innovation and innovation. This budget also includes a considerable increase in the number of scholarship holders. 350 new scholarship holders are involved in strengthening research recruitment. The previous government was never close to a corresponding number. We are also going to provide a big message about recruiting more researchers. Unlike the previous government, which never showed any willingness to prioritize student funding, we follow up and adjust the study support year after year. This means that we follow up on the promises of student funding, as opposed to what was the case under the previous government. We also strengthen the Research Fund twice as much as the previous government did in each of its state budgets. We also want to improve the quality of teacher training. That is why we allocate funds to a number of projects, and we come back with proposals for changes in teacher training later. Increasing the quality of teacher training is a prerequisite for increasing the number of applicants for this type of education. Good school management and good continuing training opportunities must also be available for teachers to remain in the profession. Some universities and colleges are struggling with financial problems. The opposition's proposals do not respond to these challenges. The cuts in some institutions are much larger than the opposition here today is willing to grant. We'll go into these problems. In any case, we're betting on a real growth in the university and higher education sectors. It's a real growth of 2 pst., towards a real decline last year at 1 pst. The big thing in the time that comes is the development of the Church of State. It represents a broad compromise in the Stortinget. In the budget position, it is said that it is important to see that the proste reform is followed up, that the reform of the faith is followed up, and that the church gets a better economy on the basis of the strengthening of the community economy. I read with amazement Right comments in this budget that the strengthening of the municipal economy started in the third year of the Bondevik government. The budget may have been fine-tuned then, but the political reality is that the third year of the Bondevik government was the one year when the Bondevik government did not enter into a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, but vice versa went to the Workers' Party. It was a proposal to strengthen the municipal economy this year at NOK 1.8 billion. But the result after budgetary conciliation with the Labour Party in Stortinget was DKK 3.8 billion. So taking credit for this increase is the top of cheekiness. Since then, we have seen that there was a decline in the municipal economy in 2005. Then again there was a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party, while we have seen a escalation since the new government, the red-green, took over. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is not negotiating with the Right to save the stumps of the local economy through budgetary settlements here in Stortinget, but that we have a majority in the storeroom together with our friends from the Center Party and SV for a good community economy that strengthens the school and education policy for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6582	There is a lot of money that you can spend on in the municipalities, and it is very good that you transfer money. Most of the games do that, and it's really nice. However, it is very small if that money does not go for the purposes you want the money to go for. We've seen a lot of examples of this – whether it's cultural houses, town halls or whatever they're going to be. In this respect, the representative Huitfeldt has said that a person should actually consider earmarking funds for the school. If the local authorities are unable to allocate enough money in relation to the intention of the government parties, does the representative still believe that this is something a person should consider taking advantage of if the municipalities do not have the right priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6589	What I've said is that if we don't now see an increase in teacher's density in school, we have to consider introducing some national standards. When this hall lifted the class division, it was against the Labour Party's voice. We warned against it, and said that this could lead to significantly fewer teachers per day. students, and that it could go beyond the quality of education. We will now follow these developments closely to see if we should perhaps introduce national legislation in this area to ensure that each individual young person is followed up by the teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6596	The representative Huitfeldt is concerned that there should be consensus in school policy. It might say a little bit about the story. But she has on several occasions, including: in the newspaper last, said that she wants a national knowledge agreement, and that all local authorities need to discuss results at school, based on national tests. I agree with the heart. In order to succeed in improving Norwegian school, it is entirely up to the school owners to assume their responsibilities and discuss the results. However, analysis of the results and strategies will also need to be developed and brought into the local government. I believe that Huitfeldt's representative is also taking this seriously, and that is good. But the representative Huitfeldt has unfortunately not clarified his position on transparency. Our democracy presupposes that information also comes out to the voters about the state of the school, and it must be based on concrete analyses and not on vision. The consequence of Huitfeldt's view on transparency, however, is that municipal councils must be closed when the school is to be discussed. Is she really serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6604	We do not intend these results to help the local authorities close their meetings when the results are to be discussed. On the other hand, we have closed the educational portal where this is published, and this is in line with the recommendation of the head of the PISA study in the OECD. He says he supports the Council of State for Solhjell, and not the Right's proposal for a public ranking. I believe that in our proposal for national tests, which have shown much greater support in School-Norway than the right national test had, we have achieved a good balance, with an informed dialogue where parents should know the results – and so should teachers – but we do not want a public gap. Therefore, the new national tests have a much higher school attendance than the previous ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6611	As the representative said in his speech, the Christian People's Party is against a whole-day school. In this budget, we have also given priority to focusing on educating more teachers, combating apostasy, increasing the value of home-school cooperation and getting into a new mentoring system. We believe this is a much more important dream than the dream of a full-time school. We think it's a little strange when the government has a focus on getting shorter working days, a six-hour day, for adults – while in the case of children, you have a dream to try out a full-day school. It's just going the wrong way. Instead, we want to use the financial resources to make the hours and the content of hours much better. Politics is about prioritizing. Does Huitfeldt really think it's a right priority to get more hours with the same quality and the same content as we have today, rather than to increase the quality of the school hours we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6618	I think it's very important that teachers get more time to learn the most basic things. We know that early action produces results. The alternative for those kids who today go to school three days a week from half nine to twelve, one day to two and one day to one, is not to go home to a mother who is ready with freshly baked balls, cocoa and reading and writing training. Option is time on SFO. That's why we think it's the right priority to increase the number of hours. We fully agree with what the Christian People's Party thought in the last period of government, and which the party has now left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6623	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6626	‘It is too cheap, in a double sense, to require a rise in education, research and culture without paying the bill.’ That's basically well said, but once again I'm not the source of the quote. It was the head of the Church and Education Committee in 1989, Socialist Left Party Theo Koritzinsky, who let these words fall from this pulpit, along with the following little phrase: ‘The Socialist Left Party would like to stress that quality costs.’ Yes, quality costs – especially in the education and research sector. International competition has become much tougher only in the few years that have passed since Koritzinsky dared from Stortinget's pulpit over the government's proposed higher education cut. It's strange how the world can change. For the budget that is now being presented from the same party, which previously believed that quality costs, a higher education cut that this country has hardly seen fit to. In the same 1989 budget debate, SV's Paul Chaffey praised the middle parties because they had the courage to do the opposite of what they had promised the voters in the election campaign. I suppose it's a misunderstood interpretation of Chaffey's praise at the time that now gives SV against enough to implement a policy that is opposite to that of the imagined people in the election campaign both in 2005 and in 2007. But one doesn't have to go so far back in history to find interesting traces of SV's reverse operation. The head of the Church, Education and Research Committee in the previous period, SVs Rolf Rekvam, said in the last budget debate before his own party was given the government power: ‘You have to have a lot of good will, and not least a lot of imagination, if you see it, can be characterized as visionary, or expression of willingness to bet on research and education. This sector has also been sacrificed at the tax age.» One might wonder what the Swedish Minister of Knowledge, the Minister of Research and the current Government has sacrificed research and education, because conditions have never been better suited to a real commitment to education and research. Never has the state had such a liberal wallet as it has this year, but yet the government is mainly continuing – with SV's warm support – a cut in higher education leading to dramatic reductions in student supply next year. Universitas, 21 November, announces a new cut: «There can't be cut more with students», says the head of Student Parliament, Heine Skipenes. This happens after two years of SV management in the Ministry of Knowledge. There's no art to criticize others, but it's an art to criticize others for cutting in higher education and research, then to promote their own purposes in advance of a campaign, and then cut more into education and research than any government could dream of for the same two years ago. It's approaching even more art when one in addition claims that the Government is betting on research and education. There is hardly a parliamentary term that covers this. It is a cross-political objective to increase research efforts in Norway to 3 pst. GDP. In the budget debate for the 2005 budget, the same Rolf Reikvam said that I quoted earlier, and I could say the same today: ‘Continue to use countries we want to compare with, Sweden and Finland, between 3 and 4 pst. of gross domestic product for research purposes. We use 1.8 pst. – then I refer to the figures from the Research Council. At the beginning of the period, we used 1.6 or 1.7 pst. So we haven't reached the goal in this four-year period. Unlike other parties, we promoted in SV proposals. We created an escalation plan, a four-year escalation plan, so that we would achieve the goal in 2005. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for this, and now we see what is happening, that we are not getting any closer." Since SV's Rolf Rikvam said this, it has happened that we have received a government where SV controls the Ministry of Knowledge – they direct knowledge and research. During the two years SV has been responsible in the department, research efforts have been reduced to 1.5 pst. GDP. However, I think it is important to give parties the opportunity to get an impact on their own policies once in a while, and there is a genuine possibility for SV today. The opposition stands united behind a proposal to create a stepping-up plan to achieve the 3 pst research goal. I expect that SV will continue to support the clear profile of its former committee leader, and that SV will continue to have such an escalation plan, and vote for the opposition's proposal today. The Progress Party proposes to increase the Research Fund by DKK 34 billion more than the Government's proposals. We're bringing back last year's cuts in the university and higher education sectors, and we're spending over 100 million. Add kr. That's bet. The representative Lena Jensen made a big point of how poor the condition in Norwegian school was in 2004 – the year before her party took the Ministry of Knowledge said the following in the budget debate: ‘We have adopted a work environment law for students. Calculations show that you need 40 to 55 billion dollars to get all our schools cleaned up well enough. There are still children sitting with headaches before lunch. Studies also show that four out of ten students are plagued by poor indoor climate.’ But the representative did not agree with that. She also said, ‘SV wants to strengthen and speed up the upgrading of school buildings.’ I have visited several schools after SV took up the captain's office in the Ministry of Knowledge. I've met students who say they still have headaches before lunch. I've met with parents who doubt that they have to send Pinex and Paracet with the kids at school for them to endure. I've seen mushrooms, rats, closed classrooms and despairing teachers. In total, maintenance work in school buildings is still estimated at DKK 55 billion. In such a situation, the Government proposes to wind up the school-building interest-rate compensation scheme, a system that has been very successful and that has led to much less learning difficulties for students today due to poor indoor climate. There is no one in SV today who, despite the fact that the improvements have not been due to the efforts of that party, shouts out about the children's right to a good working environment. SV will not contribute a single state crown to improve the indoor environment for students. The Progress Party believes that this is unacceptable, and we propose in the municipal budget to increase the rate compensation scheme for school buildings by DKK 1 billion. The progress party believes it is unsustainable that a watchman sees school buildings decay all over the country. Our children get a working environment that at least we hadn't accepted in here. It's a serious cut over today's budget debate. It comes in the wake of depressing international studies that show that the professional performance level of Norwegian students is very low. I thank you for the invitation from the representative Huitfeldt and would like to talk to most about most of it – I look forward to this possibly being implemented in practice. But this happens, despite Norway being among the countries that spend the most money on basic training already. The reasons for the low results are likely to be complex, but there is reason to fear that there is a link between the low level of professional performance of the students and the thinking of the single school, which has shaped School Norway up to these times, to drive all students through the same quarries. There's a lot of talk about custom training, but there's so little going on inside. The Progress Party takes this challenge seriously and proposes a total of 55 million. kr in strengthening students with special learning challenges. If a person is to be given appropriate practical training other than through speeches, he/she needs money, skills and willingness to bet. The government has set itself a clear goal – we also heard Huitfeldt’s representative repeat it today – that the teacher’s density should be increased. The government has argued that increased transfers to municipalities should address not only the problems of the Church and of the care sector, but also in the school sector and in terms of improving teacher density. The Progress Party has said that this is unlikely to happen, both because the cost growth in the municipal sector is higher than that of the transfers, and because municipal politicians are often drawn between a little too many and different for good local purposes. Now it turns out that the Progress Party has been right. New figures from the Central Statistical Office show that the density of teachers has not increased during this government. There is only one way to ensure that the schools get the money the Stortinget thinks they should have, as long as a single price financing scheme is not implemented, which the Progress Party wants, where the money follows the student – and that is by earmarking. The Progress Party therefore proposes to secure the schools by earmarking 400 million. DKK to primary school and 200 million. kr to secondary school above the municipal budget. It may be time for the Swedish Council of State to do something concrete to increase the flow of money and the quality of initial training – other than to talk. Designation is an instrument that I allow myself to recommend to the Council of State to look into. Norway is a nation with strong ties to our Christian cultural heritage. The Party of Advancement believes it is right and important that the State and the Church separate layers, so that the Church can gain its independence and not be overrun by politics. There is still a lot of work to be done before you can find a model for which this house can go together in connection with the future form of State-Church relations. It's a big message about it. But then you should spend time building the people's church we all say we agree that we should have. Instead, we see a government that cuts dramatically in church democracy, the proste reform is not being filled up, the church buildings are failing, and the Information Society's fund is being tapped for resources. It may seem that the Government is running some kind of active dismantling of the Church, pending a political compromise on the Church's future form of association. That is very worrying. I have noticed correctly that the number of committees increases the level of precision very little when it comes to the Information Service's fund, but disappearing little. This year, too, the Progress Party is proposing a real uplift for the people's Church, by providing money for more than 50 new performances, by restoring the government's cutbacks in church democracy and by continuing the interest-rate compensation system for church buildings by 150 million. kr. We also agree with the other opposition parties on a strong mention of the Information Society's fund. It should be noted by the government parties, the Church, the Information Society's fund, the Ministry and the Supreme Court. It brings me to the interviewer in this post. This year, too, I am proud of the amazing collection presented on the opposition side. Despite the fact that the representative Anniken Huitfeldt is trying to present it as if it were a division in the opposition, the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party stand together on comprehensive comments. We agree on 16 concrete proposals, some of which are common in more. And not least, we are strongly united on the main priorities of the budget for research and higher education. Should this willingness to find good practical solutions persist and spread to the other specialist committees. With this I take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposal of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6697	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6703	I record that the representative Anundsen spends more time talking about the SV's policy and the municipal budget than about the Progress Party's policy and the education budget. But I'll give the representative one more chance. During the fall we have had some bad suggestions about some private schools and their use of money. The progress party wants to give 100 pst. State aid to private schools and, in addition, it shall be fully possible to charge dividends and school fees. Does the representative, Anundsen, think that it is right that the state grant money that goes right into the pocket of private school entrepreneurs? And where do you really go the limit on how much school money you can take from the students and their parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6710	Let me first mention that the reason I spend some time on SV is that SV has been involved in school, education and research before, and they have promised the voters how to do something about Norway as a knowledge nation. Then I think it is in my place to show that the fulfillment of the promises is relatively poor. But if the representative followed closely in my post, I told them how the Progress Party was going to solve the challenges that SV had previously said they were going to solve, and as it turns out in practice that they are not able to solve. As far as private schools are concerned, I find it strange that the representative Ljunggren also uses this opportunity to present it as if private school owners are only concerned with profit and putting money in their pocket. I have a completely different idea of private schools. I have the impression that there are qualitatively good schools in general, which are really making an effort to ensure that Norwegian students receive the best possible training. The fact that some private schools make mistakes, have shortcomings and do stupid things, we have to make sure to correct them through control. But I should like to hear Anna Ljunggren tell me that it does not happen in public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6717	So it's not like this – and I haven't registered that the Progress Party is proposing to open up – that the owners can take dividends from the public school. But it has one suggested for the private schools. The Prom will cut 15 pst. in the Ministry of Knowledge and the Directorate of Education, which must be a reasonably high efficiency gain – 25 million. SEK at Sametinget, 50 million. SEK in Sami language, 57 million. SEK in state-owned Sami schools, 30 million. I am not going to learn how much in the schools of culture, public schools and associations of study. So we're going to cut out a formidable sum to increase by $95 million. kr in the supplement to private schools. Why was it necessary for the Progress Party to take the money, etc. from an indigenous people to whom the State has international legal obligations, in other words to give them to private school owners, as the Progress Party clearly wants? Couldn't the Progress Party just take these money from the Oil Fund? Wouldn't it be much simpler and less painful?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6726	So my conclusion in the previous line was public schools, which can also be subjected to poor quality, root and sour. Checks must then reveal it there as well. Quality control for private and public schools should be as comprehensive as possible so that students receive the training they require. With regard to the summary of certain cuts, then, the Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget a framework increase of more than 800 million. kr to our frame area. With this money, we're betting on what we think is most important. But it's not like that, either for the Advancement Party or anyone else, you have an infinite amount of money you can spend on anything. We must also give priority, and we have done so. We give priority to what we think is most important in the education sector. We believe, as opposed to SV, that we should have equal treatment for people in this country, regardless of their ethnic origin, their religion and their background. That's why we're also dealing with some relationships that relate to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6733	I have noticed that, in a separate remark in the budget position, the Progress Party points out that: ‘The Ministry still does not have an overview of the changes to be made to the curriculum to ensure that training in CRLs is within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights’. We in the Christian People's Party share the commitment that the CRL subject should be in line with human rights. But unlike the Progress Party, we have thought that the changes made to the subject since it was first reported are sufficient to meet the human rights obligations we have. When you read the comment on the Progress Party, it really looks like you want such a change. After the setting has been given, the government has now come and shown a short picture in this case. Now I ask the representative Anundsen: is he satisfied with the proposals that are now on the table for changing the subject, which, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, go far beyond the human rights obligations we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6745	I want to thank you for the question, because it gives me the opportunity to say something that I'm really very concerned about. The party of progress, like the Christian People's Party, is concerned that one should not do the CRL subject, or what will now be called the RLE subject, is value-neutral. We are dedicated to caring for the Christian cultural heritage. The changes currently proposed may go far beyond what is required. But we have made a claim, and I also expect it to be met, that it is the Storting that will finally deal with this matter at last. And when the Storting gets this matter under consideration, I am absolutely convinced that the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and certainly other parties can come together on how one should contribute to influencing the development of the subject, so that it becomes, I would almost say, as close as possible to what was the starting point. So it was a broad compromise in this big deal related to the CRL subject. Then it would be pointless if one failed – at least trying – to reach a broad compromise on the changes that are coming. I simply assume that the Government does not take these decisions on its own, that they make it open to the Storting in order to make the changes that the Storting, which were behind the CRL subject, want to be made in that context. Then I look forward to a good cooperation with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6750	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6753	We as society are facing major challenges. Poverty and climate change mean that the political entity must change. Policy needs to become more long-term in nature, and policy solutions and debates can no longer focus on short-term objectives. What we do today, we're measured on tomorrow. A strong and comprehensive welfare state is the only way we can guarantee human freedom and the ability to realize their lives. That's the basis for justice. We need to create a school and a educational and research community that gives every opportunity to succeed and that enables people to develop new ideas and discoveries. It is a condition for success in the transition from an oil-black raw economy to a green knowledge society. It is important to invest in the public general school and stop the privatisation of the school. This has been done by the red-green government, and this is continued in the budget of the year. It's important to focus on the things we're very good at in school. In the international study TIMSS, we score the highest among our students in the sense of democracy. Our kids can cooperate, and thrive best of all kids in all countries at school. This is the knowledge we're not going to germinate on. It is important in the development of our welfare state. It creates justice to be able to participate actively and to contribute to the future. Democracy and understanding of democracy are important to combat corruption and bring about a fair and open society. Thinking ourselves highlights very much, it's important to be able to develop our welfare society and solve the challenges we're facing. I am proud that we have a minister of knowledge in the government who has dared to take the issue of school dropout seriously. Too many students fall from high school. This is serious. It's about life, the dreams and the future of young people being thrown to the ground. The causes of the drop-out often start much earlier. It is important, therefore, to bet early, and to give young people help when they need it, so that students turn to knowledge and not against it. Success in school and a sense of mastery are vital for the individual to look up to the stars, climb to new peaks and get started on new tasks. Still, the school results follow a social background, and we see that the school has failed too much to balance social differences. The Minister of Knowledge and the Government shall have the honour of taking seriously, unlike their predecessors, the structural obstacles to a fair society. The national samples and the international surveys now coming in autumn, such as PISA and PIRLS, show that too many young people cannot read and write well enough. They show that within one class there is a great difference between how much students have learned. It is serious and action needs to be taken. The government has announced a big message about quality in school. These are important measures to ensure good school management, to put in place good evaluation systems and to ensure quality development in school. In this budget, we have promoted a very important measure – we have expanded the number of hours in the first few years by a total of five weeks. It will give more time to learn to read and write, and it will give more time to each individual student and greater space for what they will learn. This is the important principle of this government as a basis for early action. I'm glad the government is coming up with a plan for the development of school library. Library development and bet in local school libraries are important for libraries to be what they should be in a school: the heart itself. Parents and guardians are an important resource in the lives of children, and it is important to have close cooperation between school and home. The red-greens have allocated more money to the Parental Committee in primary school to enable them to do an even better job than they do today in helping and guiding parents to be an important resource in the schoolwork of children. All parents want the children to succeed, and we need to help to get a school where all the children succeed. The government is implementing its objectives and visions to facilitate a school that prevents poverty and builds on knowledge and learning for all. The government has secured kindergartens for everyone for a reasonable amount of money and of high quality. We have introduced free core time in some areas where this is important. The government then also strengthens the hours in the school from the fall of the year. The government has also arranged for more teachers to come to school, by increasing the municipal budgets. We have invested in the state of public welfare instead of what the former government did, which was tax havens. Nevertheless, we see that too many municipalities do not follow up to a large enough extent on getting as many teachers as SV want to enter the school. It is important that municipalities assume the responsibility they have to ensure schools and to ensure quality in school. I believe that all municipalities should aim to make a school policy plan, where a regular discussion of hourly developments, the educational tool situation, school building, evaluation systems, school-home cooperation, etc. We have to ensure a good school and do a common job in all areas. I was at a school in Bergen some time ago. There I was met on the school's side with fruit and greenery. They described this to me and thanked the red-green government for having introduced the system of fruit and green at the youth stage, not because fruit and green are a goal in itself, but because it leads to better learning. Fruit and vegetables are a means of getting better education in school, and this is important. We need to strengthen the advisory service and stimulate the recruitment of more teachers in school. We've discovered how a reinforced advisory service will reduce school dropout. We've discovered how more teachers in school are learning better. Both research and empirical findings and ambitions are strongly opposed to the right-wing parties, which used the entire previous ageing period to deny the truth about the relationship between results and resource use. The government has strengthened the Research Fund with a strength and a pace lacking parallel in Norwegian history. The fund is strengthened in this budget by $6 billion, and it is worth $300 million. SEK for research in 2009. We've increased the fund's size by 30 billion dollars in three years. This will increase the research effort of a total of DKK 1.25 billion. The government of Bondevik spent about SEK 1.8 billion on research in four years. Our government has increased by SEK 1.6 billion in just three years. SV's vision is to make Norway a green knowledge society. The aim is for society as a whole to participate in knowledge development. That is why we are working for a broad focus on knowledge from kindergarten to school, after-school training, higher education and research. A boost for research and higher education is needed for several reasons: firstly, to contribute to industrial development through new technologies and skilled labour. Norway cannot live on the oil forever. Secondly, because independent and critical research is essential for a living democrat. Equal rights to higher education are therefore an important democratic principle in Norway. In the budget, there are 350 new scholarships for universities and colleges, as well as an increase of 20 million in the financial committee at Stortinget. kr to accompany these scholarship positions. We also strengthen the appropriations for equipment resources by 330 million. kr and for research equipment of 38 million. kr, university museums get 40 million. SEK, research schools get 10 million. And we're also adding $40 million. to measures to improve the quality of teacher training. The opposition has been very quiet about betting on the students. This government is committed to completing the Quality Reform process. If we're going to complete it, we're going to see the importance of betting on the students. In this budget, we have arranged for an increase in the construction of student housing. We have adjusted the price of the scholarship, which will result in the students getting NOK 5000 more this year than when we took over. We also have some challenges. When I travel around the country, both at universities and colleges, I get feedback that it's very difficult in terms of basic appropriations and the situation there. For SV, it will be important at the next crossroads that we give priority to strengthening basic appropriations at universities and higher education institutions. The Norwegian business community is behind the form in relation to the research effort expected by the Stortinget from its businesses, but this government, unlike its predecessors, is pursuing an active ownership policy in state companies. Public enterprises are strengthening their research efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6795	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6798	The learning environment is essential in order to achieve better results in Norwegian schools. We know that a number of students are struggling with health problems as a result of poor indoor climate and a building mass that is in decline. The maintenance run, after what I have heard, is 55,000 million. kr. We have had an interest compensation scheme that has been a huge success, which has been used by all county councils and almost all municipalities to do something about the misery. Why does SV not agree to continue this scheme? If SV is going to make sure that there is a better learning environment for children, then when are they going to start, and what will they do to improve the learning environment in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6803	The size of the population has adopted a working environment law for pupils in school – the Education Act chapter. 9a. This is a very important law, which gives each student the right to a learning environment that promotes health, well-being and learning, not least. We have had an interest-rate compensation scheme introduced in 2002. When it ended this year, it was two years earlier than thought, because this government has had a higher effort than the previous government compared to the amount of money spent in this interest compensation scheme. This government has also increased the budgets of the municipalities. For us, it is also important to bet on school buildings. And we'll keep track of developments in school buildings, and see if any new scheme should be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6811	The representative of Jensen believes it is important to raise higher education and research. And that's absolutely right. However, the representative is competent to avoid mentioning that one of the main reasons why this is necessary is that the Government has made a dramatic cut in higher education and research. I'm going to go over to another topic that the representative raised. She was very concerned that Norwegian students in relation to the TIMSS study are doing very well in democratic understanding and well-being. But neither democracy nor well-being has prevented Norwegian students from falling away. On the other hand, it lacks basic knowledge and basic skills. The SV's programme says that aesthetics should be basic competence in the school. Rolf Rikvam of SV, former head of the education committee, moved out into the business of today a few days ago and said this was a very important programme point to follow up. Then the Anniken Huitfeldt of the Workers' Party went out and said that she disagreed with this. You can wonder what policy the government is really going to pursue in this area. I would like to ask the representative Jensen: do you think it is important to do what the representative Rolf Reikvam and the party program says, namely to introduce aesthetics as a basic competence, or to support you to the Annicken Huitfeldt, who believes that aesthetics should not be introduced as a basic competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6818	One of the very first things that the red-green government did was to expand the basic competence of Norwegian students. Among other things, we sat down. in cultural understanding as one of the basic competences. For SV, it is important to bet on the school. What this government is doing now is expanding the hour by 5 hours a week from 1 to 4 class steps. This we will use to bet on students learning to read and write a lot earlier, and to ensure that we get an early effort for all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6823	A short time ago, I was invited to an all-out meeting at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Oslo, where we had to discuss cuts in the university's appropriations. The choice was between cutting the basic research for doctors, which affects the next round of education, or qualitatively good training for general practitioners, who have a very close follow-up to become a good doctor. The background to this debate is, of course, that the current government cut the basic appropriations for Norwegian universities and colleges. It did so in the budget for the current year and has done nothing to correct it for the coming year. It's quite amazing, because it's been no more than six or seven years since I joined up with the representative Lena Jensen's Rolf Reikvam party trap to build up the Quality Reform. We stood shoulder to shoulder to get it done. My question is: What is the representative Jensen's message to the Norwegian students, for example. at the University of Oslo? Can they have any hope of improvement, or can they with SV just wait for a friendly dialogue, but without any obligation to remove the cuts that lead to the painful situations I described at the beginning of this article?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6830	Basic appropriations for the higher education sector are incredibly important. That's the largest component we give to universities and colleges. As I was in my post, the university sector has never received as much funding as it did during this government. On my travels around the country, both at universities and colleges, I have received very clear signals that the cuts made by the government in last year's budget have been painful and difficult. SV will prioritize this at the next crossroads and look at what we can do in terms of strengthening the basic allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6835	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6838	The best investment for a good future is to ensure good growth conditions for children and young people. The latest PISA study has once again confirmed that the background is relevant to school performance. Norwegian school does not have major differences between schools. On an international scale, they are reasonably equivalent in results. There are inequalities in every school in Norway. Therefore, cooperation between home and school is so important. We know that there are big differences between schools as to how well this actually works. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed to grant 10 million in its alternative budget. kr to start a pilot project in each country, where a position to strengthen this very cooperation is established in a selected school. In addition, we have wanted to strengthen the allocation to FUG. I think there's a need to be more involved in strengthening cooperation between home and school. Is it really an automatic in that more hours in school give you more quality? We believe the government's priorities are wrong when it introduces five more hours a week for the youngest children. This has been marketed as the first step on the way to the dream of the whole day school. It's a dream Christian People's Party doesn't share. The Christian People's Party believes it's more important to look at the content of the hours we already have than uncritically to spend hundreds of millions of dollars popping in more of the same. In our alternative budget, we proposed using the 275 million. NOK at the cost of five additional hours, in a different and better way than that proposed by the Government. The Christian People's Party proposed that 220 million be spent. kr. to employ 440 more teachers in school. I believe that the greatest need now is to get more teachers. This could result in a greater learning effect than several hours, for example. because we will be able to provide more adapted training for each individual student. In addition, we would be more ahead of the generational shift that will now come to school. The Christian People's Party also proposed spending 25 million. kr on a test of mentoring for newly-trained teachers. Many newly educated teachers feel unsafe in the classroom situation. Getting feedback and recording will make it easier and faster for the newly-trained teacher to become safe on himself. Finally, the Christian People's Party proposed to introduce its own 25 million measure item. kr to combat the drop-out in secondary education. The rate of drop-out in secondary education remains serious. When one in three does not complete secondary vocational training, this is far more than dry figures. These figures represent individuals and, in many cases, individuals. It is important to take urgent action to help more people complete higher education. So much you could do just by re-prioritizing this year's number-of-hour increase. The introduction of the full-day school will be in the billions class. Think what a lift we could give the school with such a bet! No, the solution to the school’s challenges is not now for hours. The solution lies in training and employing more teachers, implementing good recruitment policies and policies, combating the drop-out and increasing the value of parents as a resource in children’s learning. It's a better dream than the dream of a whole day school. There is no doubt that the Government's draft budget is a very poor budget for higher education and research. It is not only the opposition that agrees on it, but also a global university, higher education and research sector that is deeply concerned about the proposal. I note that the Government is continuing its rest cuts. A lot has been said about this already, and I will therefore focus on another part of higher education, namely the private colleges. The offers given at private colleges are an important part of our education system. This is underlined by the fact that we now have a common law on higher education. In this way, the ideological debate on the relationship between private and public education, which we find particularly in questions relating to health schools, is less likely to be relevant in higher education. That is precisely why it is regrettable that some private colleges are still struggling with the cuts that came into this government's first budget. It's hard to understand why exactly these schools have to have such a difficult economic situation. In particular, this hits the Gimlekollen School of Media. Two of their studies now receive support only for the teaching component, but not for the basic component. Higher education is the only private journal college in the Nordic region, and is both a necessary supplement and an alternative to state higher education. Ansgar Theologische Högskole, Fjellhaug Misjonhögskole and the Stockholm College in Staffeldtsgate are also in a difficult economic situation, although the issue is different. These went from fresh schools to higher education in 2005. This gave schools a heavier professional profile. Strangely enough, this transfer has proved not to be profitable. The grant they are now receiving is lower than the grant they would have received if they had remained in health care. The Christian People's Party does not think it can be right that schools that want a heavier professional profile on their offers should be penalised financially, and we ask the Ministry to reconsider their classification into cost category. The Christian People's Party has proposed in its alternative budget to correct these cuts. We have proposed to correct the interception and to increase significantly the funding for research through the Research Fund. With the rise times we are now in, we need to use the opportunity to invest in both school, higher education and research. I note that the Government has great will to rule the Norwegian Church, but lacks the will to support it financially. The Church is facing a crucial phase in its many hundred-year-old history. To spring, the Government presents a big message that may be the beginning of a future distinction between state and church. At the same time, many communities face challenges, including: economics, lack of priests and churches that fall due. Then it is remarkable that the government uses each state budget to cut the church chapter. The allocation to the General Councils has halved since the Government's accession, the efforts to clean up counterfeit church buildings have been completed, and the Information Society's fund is being subject to an increasing number of creative measures by the Government in order to absorb the Fund's funds. To the end, there are two challenges I want to raise. When the Government manages the Information Society's fund, the only challenge it is doing is to drain the fund through church renovation and distribute money from the community to private landowners. But the second challenge may be even more serious. The government's handling of the OVF case shows a lack of listening and a lack of belonging to understand the Church and the Church's concerns. In my opinion, it shows a will of power and sometimes a power arrogance towards the Church, which is ominous for the future cooperation in order to bring about a good order between the State and the Church. In the time following the presentation of the budget, there have been concerns from the Church Meeting, the Council of Churches, the Bishops' Meeting, the Preste Association, the KA and the KS, without making any impression on this government. Instead, the government parties in Stortinget cut another 0.5 million. kr to strengthen other good purposes. The Christian People's Party will continue the interest compensation scheme for church buildings, set up 52 new performances, reverse the cut in the allocations to the local communities and increase the support to the Church's Resource Centre against violence and sexual assault. We will thus facilitate that the Church can fulfill its own goal of being a confessing, mind-boggling, ministering, and open church. Finally, a few words about the KRL subject. The Christian People's Party is the only party that is not included in the comments in the setting that calls for changes in the KRL subject. This is short and good because we do not think there is a need for further changes in the subject. The Christian People's Party has therefore previously warned the Government against making major changes in the CRL subject without a factual basis, but unfortunately it looks as if the Government will now do just that. I would like to stress from this pulpit that it is important for the Christian People's Party that the subject does not conflict with human rights. The European Court of Human Rights has assessed the subject from 1997 to 2001, and after that, with broad political support, we have implemented the necessary changes both in terms of the exemption system and the curriculum, by the end of 2005. With regard to what the Government has presented at the hearing on the CRL subject now, it is perhaps the most serious thing to shift the debate on the content of this subject from the Stortinget to the Government in its work on curricula and curricula. I believe that this subject will serve to ensure that there is a broad consensus on what should be the framework for this subject. We want that debate to be held here and not in the back room of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6884	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6887	In 2004, the current government cut the operating grant to the General Councils to 87,6 million. SEK, in 2005 it was further cut to 65,5 million. kr, and in their last proposed budget down to 60,3 million. kr. In proposing a reduction now in the same post, the Christian People's Party calls this building down church democracy and reducing the freedom of action. They also say that it helps to reduce the role of the Church as a community valuer, and not least that this reduction increases the pressure on the clergy to work. Why didn't the cuts in 2004, 2005 and 2006 have the same consequences, when at the same time the municipalities had a much tighter economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6896	What I think has provoked in this matter is that as you increase your efforts at the faith training reform by 25 million. kr, and boasts of it, and at the same time sucks 24 million. In the appropriations of the General Councils, the Joint Councils experience that it is those who must be involved in the training of faith, and not the Government, who takes the credit for increasing the resources for the training of faith. This government has halved the appropriations for the Joint Council after they came to power. We get strong signals from the Church that this is what they don't want to do, and that it goes beyond church democracy. We are, in contrast to this government, a little more listening and taking this seriously, and have thus covered up in our alternative budget not only the current cut in the appropriations of the General Councils, which are in the current year's budget, but also what has been done before. We believe that this is important for church democracy, and we will continue to do so in the budgets we come up with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6901	The President would like to ask the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, if he would like to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6904	I would like to mention proposal No. Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6910	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6913	In his statement, the representative Dagrun Eriksen shows a great commitment to preventing high school drop-outs. The dropout in high school is too high, and it's a serious problem. Too many students are excluded from secondary education. This means that the dreams of very many young people are crushed and crushed. We know that very many of these people who fall from high school have fallen from a lot earlier. This is about what this government has been very concerned about, that is, early efforts. The government has proposed to increase the number of hours between 1 and 4. class steps of five school hours per day. week. This is what we're doing to give students more time to learn what they're going to learn, more time to learn to read and write. My question to the representative of Dagrun Eriksen is: Why does the Christian People's Party not support an increase in the number of hours between 1 and 4. the class step?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6922	I want to answer with a story I heard from a school I visited. There was tremendous concern now that those who fall out of high school are often practical students who struggle with theory. Their big concern was that you should now get even more hours in for the very least, with more theory, math, reading and writing, and that it would create even greater distance between those who deal with those theory hours, and those who don't deal with the theory hours. In that classroom, it was a unique prayer to me as a representative here, if I could pass on this: Give us better content in the hours we have, not introduce more hours where these students sit as losers. – That is why we have given a completely different priority to what the Government has done with regard to the use of money – hours or quality in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6929	The study federations are important contributors to the training of adults. Training in basic subjects, such as Norwegian and English, and in digital skills, involves a great deal of adult demand. In addition, many study associations facilitate vocational training and further training of adults, for example. in the care sector, which today has many unskilled workers. The Christian People's Party has proposals for equal appropriations for the study federations next year as the red-green majority has. On the other hand, the Right Party and the Advance Party are making dramatic cuts in the appropriations for the study federations. In view of a civil government cooperation that many dream about, how will the representative Dagrun Eriksen comment on the cut parties Right and the Progress Party make in the appropriations for the study federations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6936	As with the current government, there will be negotiations to come up with new alternatives. I want to say that we mean that per. Today we cannot now cut the appropriations for the study associations. Now, the Tron committee's investigation is out for consultation, and then you're going back to the government, where you're going to look at the total location of study associations in society. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we also look at both formal and informal competence that the study associations contribute to. In particular, the Christian People's Party believes that what they do to non-governmental organisations and the training here is an important and valuable work. I can promise the representative that no matter where the Christian People's Party is after the next elections, the study associations will be important. We want to fight because they're still a resource for our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6950	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6953	There's a lot of focus on school a day. In most of the larger newspapers, there are headlines with the theme almost daily. Much of it is, of course, in the cold water of various school surveys, and a lot is negative, but it shows great interest in school and education. It has also been interesting to follow the debates on school on television. The differences in the political parties are not so great. In the budget adopted today, there are also little differences. Now I hear a little different signals from here. Of course, it's a distinction, but when you go through mail, it's just the Progress Party that runs its own race, that is. they have a different principle approach. My point is that there is no common, collective opposition in many areas. Fairly, we all have our buyers, and in some cases many of us would have used more money if we had only had them. We want to build a knowledge nation. If we're going to do that, one of the keywords has to be lifelong learning. Therefore, a clear focus must be on more knowledge and learning outcomes. ‘Teaching pressure’ is a concept that has been widely used in recent weeks’ debates. There's not enough learning pressure in school, it's claimed. In fact, I think there might be something right in those statements, but that's not exactly something that can be adopted from the Great Britain's pulpit – more learning pressure. It is important to address the enquiries to which they belong. It's actually for the school owners in this case. Because if the school is to meet the expectations of what we all consider to be a good school, it's essentially crucial what happens in each school and in each classroom. The solution and responsibility lies with local school leaders and individual teachers in cooperation with senior officials. In one of the television debates, Kristin Clemet said something like that that citizens have to get involved in school. I think that's right. ‘Community choice is school choice’ was the title of the daily newspaper just before the election. The article was written by Professor of Education Kaare Skagen. School management has been one of the themes of the Committee's involvement in this autumn. Here we think it's a lot to pick up. Several legislative changes strengthen the school with a view to sound professional, educational and administrative management. Training shall be conducted by a principal and the principal shall have the necessary managerial and pedagogical skills. Raising the competence of teachers, school leaders and instructors is also a priority in this budget. Three hundred and seventy-five million will be granted. to develop skills in 2008. Since 2005, school management has been a priority area through the Strategy for the Development of Competences. The reports show that there are a significant number of school leaders who have participated in formal continuing education. Figures from 2006 show that each fourth head of school has participated. When the period ends, an evaluation will be necessary to see if the effect is what you thought. The government is pursuing a targeted policy to reduce the disparities in society. The education system is one of the most important venues for such a dithering. Everyone will receive an education that provides the basis for further work and learning. In this context, it is natural to enter St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007... and no one was left, as we agreed this spring. The notification presents in a good way the reasons why some groups systematically succeed less than others in education and working life. The message has a lifelong learning perspective and addresses the entire educational cycle, from pre-school children to adults. Early efforts are reasonably underlined as very important. For the Government it is an important objective to strengthen the general public school. Giving children and young people knowledge of each other within the framework of a community is central to the three parties in the Government. The new private school law adopted by the Stortinget in ours is also important in this way. The promise of knowledge is in line with the plan, and the Government's draft budget represents a continuation and strengthening of the main lines of the reform. In addition, it is proposed to continue the appropriations for quality development in initial training with approximately NOK 1 billion. Norwegian schoolchildren at kindergarten have a few hours at school compared with children in other countries. The Government announced in the Accession Declaration that the school day should be escalated up to 28 lessons per week at the childhood stage. From the coming school years, the number of hours increases by a total of five hours of 60 minutes. It is proposed to grant over 275 million. kr for this in 2008. As you know, the basics are being strengthened. In the autumn of 2007, free learning material was introduced for the second stage. From the autumn of 2008, it has been extended to cover the third stage. There is also money for this as compensation to the school owner for the introduction of free learning material. So-called adults without right have been a concern for many of us. Many young people experience, for various reasons, that they use up their right to secondary education without being left with a full education. It is therefore good that the Government will amend the Training Act so that the right to training applies to all adults over the age of 25. Law change is expected in spring 2008, and money is also allocated to this now. The dropout in high school is far too high. This is a major challenge for students, supervisors and schools alike. It's sad for the individual student and the family that's involved. It's a defeat for the nation, and it's not a good social economy at all. The causes of the drop-out are complex, but good advice can undoubtedly solve some of this. We have long thought that it is important to have two-part counselling – a part for the social part and a part for the professional part. There is a need for better quality and more professional counselling of students throughout the education cycle. In the context of the revised 2007 national budget, the Stortinget decided to increase the resources for counselling in higher education, with a target of 11 million young people in particular. kr. Money was also allocated to establish partnerships for career guidance in all counties. Actions will continue in the coming years. Recruitment to research is the cornerstone of Norway’s ability to become a strong knowledge nation. The creation of 350 scholarship positions in 2008 is necessary. It may be good to know that these positions are linked to national investments in mathematics, science and technology and medicine. In order to improve the quality and implementation of the training of researchers, a scheme of national research schools is to be established in 2008 and 10 million have been proposed. kr to this bet. The research schools shall have a clear organisation and a separate professional management and shall provide the doctoral students with added value in addition to the normal research training programmes. As I mentioned at the outset, many of the Committee's priorities are consistent, with some exceptions. Sometimes, I think, it's going to get a lot out of little, and that's what I'd like to talk a little bit about now when the post goes to the end. One is $500,000 for the Peace Centre at Lillehammer. The amount is not large in our budget, but it has positive effects where it comes. The amount actually ensures the operation of the centre so that it becomes less vulnerable. They can double the crew to two. The main task of the Peace Centre at Lillehammer is to teach peace for refugees living in Norway. In this way, they can be seen as a resource, and they can be empowered to participate in the reconstruction of their own country. The second example I would like to mention is the ‘Study Centre dot no’, or the ‘Study Centre dot no’, which it could also call. For the first time, the State budget for 2008 has been covered, with 2 million. kr. The study centre operates a wide range of services in decentralised higher education. Through cooperation with universities and universities, the Study Centre.no organises a wide range of studies. Today, it organises over 100 study services, and through modern technology it reaches local study centres in more than 50 municipalities and 10 counties. The provision of studies is organised through a partnership between the Study Centre and the respective higher education institutions and universities. In this context, they represent a valuable complement to the directly organised decentralised services, and it is good that there is room for this action on the State budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6993	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e6996	The representative would have liked to spend more money, but – heaven and sea – it is something she can do, it is to spend more money! It shouldn't be a problem – we don't even use what we can use under the famous rule of action. But that's not what I wanted to say now. What I would like to hear from the representative is the transport of schoolchildren by bus. It should be very important for the Center Party. As the representative probably remembers, the Progress Party had a proposal to ban standing places for children in school buses. It couldn't be supported by the Center Party. Now there is a new, almost equivalent, case, that goes on the use of the belt on the bus. How is the representative doing this? I know it's a little early, but I could imagine getting a signal here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7003	With regard to the first representative Schmidt mentioned, the rule of action, I think we should be happy that, after all, there are some guidelines to deal with, because otherwise we could get quite wrong financially. That's it. When it comes to this with schoolchildren on the bus, I just have to fully support what the representative says. It is clear that they should have seats, and they should also have belts. Think how carefully we are at this in our own private cars! As the representative is aware, the Committee had a proposal to discuss this last year. Then a unanimous committee chose to send the proposal to the Government, so that they would take a closer look at it. I think it is reasonable that they will get a small reminder in a little while.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7013	The representative, Enger, did not say much about research, but it has surprised me to observe that the Center Party has been involved in the tightening up of the Tax Fund. The State budget explains that the tax FUNN is a scheme that makes a good industry for agriculture. There is a system that is actively used by small farms in agriculture, and they use to be close to the Senterpartie. Now there will soon be an evaluation of the TaxFUNN, but I will be surprised if the bureaucracy and the governance we now have will not interpret the results in the sense that this must be a grant scheme. Then one would enjoy the bureaucracy, but at the same time perhaps frustrate the little business owner who does not have time to sit in public offices. The question arises as to whether the representative Enger sees that the SkattenFUNN scheme is valuable to small businesses as it is today, and whether she will fight for a system that is unbureaucratic, simple and safe for users.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7022	Based on the uproar Gundersen had now, it's hard to disagree with any of it. It was just a nice treat, all of it. But I think we have to look at the device before we can – I kept saying – give blank authorisation and say that we fully support this. I'm well aware that the TaxFUNN scheme has been very good in many areas. I actually know sail people who have been with and enjoyed it. We know that there have been some changes in the legislation along the way – some say it's better, some say it's worse – but at least we're going to get this evaluation, which we're going to look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7029	Despite increased funding for municipalities, the Minister of Knowledge has found reason to give a clear message to municipal politicians that they need to give priority to school. The pattern of maintenance of municipal buildings is in the billions class. At the same time, the government seems that the time has come to cut out the very successful interest-free lending scheme for the refurbishment of churches and school buildings. The centre party has gradually introduced a new tradition of first being involved and dealing with issues in government and then perhaps expressing some shock at the results in the media. We looked at it in the middle of high school, we saw it in the school for aid workers in developing countries, and maybe last of all in the CRL field. My question is really whether the Senterpartiet knew in advance that the interest compensation scheme was removed, and whether the party will work to rectify this and re-establish the arrangement in the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7040	Then I'm told that we can read, so we've got this system removed. It's been very successful. It was introduced in 2002 – now I am talking about school buildings. I think it's about 1,200 school buildings that have been well restored over the years. It's spent NOK 15 billion, and there's a reason why the scheme stopped now, because it was kind of what was set as a thank-you. I know that the Government is interested in looking at whether or not this arrangement, so at least similar arrangements. Because we see here both at Stortinget and in the municipalities that these are good arrangements where you get a lot out of the money. So some kind of compensation I think it has to be right that you take it back in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7047	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7050	The research of a country is fundamental to the generalisation of the country, it is fundamental to democracy, it is fundamental to cultural understanding and to innovation, and it is fundamental to the living and unborn business. It is crucial to the major and drastic climate challenge we are now facing. This is the starting point for the Left to understand the importance of research both in civilisation and in business building. The left is happy that we got a share of the Ministry of Knowledge. The left had such a proposal, which was met with a certain silence, but we note that the proposal prevailed. We think it is good that the government has got its own research minister, but then our vision becomes, and I would like to start with that it commits the more. It has also become that new ministers have not led to a change of policy. From the left's point of view, it is reassuring to see that the red-green government then prioritizes the research until the degrees down. Other speakers have pointed out that over the past two years, an estimated DKK 130 billion has been made available. Increasing the percentage distribution for research is not a big exercise. It is the ability to prioritise that is essential. In this discussion on what to prioritize and how to prioritise, it is only to note that two party leaders – the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance – are absent from the debate. In fact, we have found ourselves in a situation where the country's new Minister of Research is going to open meetings and asking for some kind of support in order to be able to obtain a say in the Minister of Finance in the government. The way to express itself does not promise well for the mandate given to research policy in the Government. It does not promise well for the priority given to it. It tells a lot more about a representative of the party SV trying to get support when you don't get it on the inside. This is the case with regard to the challenges in research, that it is precisely in good times that you have the opportunity to bet and should bet. The left has done so in our budget. We have created a budget as usual within the responsible frameworks that most parties agree on. Within that framework, we show how it is possible to get a research effort of 1 pst in 2010. of gross domestic product over government budgets. In our budget, the increase in research and higher education is SEK 1.2 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. We also propose to strengthen the research fund by NOK 34 billion, so that the fund has a total capital of DKK 100 billion. Such an increase would have a fund return of 5 pst. EUR 1.7 billion in increased research efforts in 2009. The left must take note that the government will not move more than 27 million. kr within the framework and voted in favour of the Left's proposal. This confirms, in the view of the Left, the lack of will, but more important than that ability to give priority. The main steps in the budget we have put forward are to fully reverse the basics of universities and colleges and to correct them for general economic growth. This means 286 million. kr. We want to strengthen the recruitment of 175 scholarship holders in addition to what the red-green proposals of the Government do. We're also using what we're going to do to reset the cut from last year in the case of fellows, when they don't give priority to a single new fellow. We are also proposing funds for 100 more postdoc posts. The Norwegian Research Council has been in a situation where the Council is not consulted. In addition, the Council is detailed and the framework is cut. The left hand response is to strengthen the Norwegian Research Council’s 200 million research framework. kr, with particular emphasis on climate, and to provide the Research Council with the space for action that the Government is trying to remove. In the case of equipment kits, which are formidable in the university and higher education sectors, we propose 200 million. kr. We're also going into basic funding in the institute sector with 40 million. kr, we are strengthening business-oriented research on user-driven innovation arena and R & D contracts by 75 million. kr, and we are expanding and improving the TaxFUNN scheme, which the Government has tightened up. Now, if we look at what creates the real space for action in research and the academic world, we know that there are three measures that give room for action. First of all, this is the basic allocation. If you cut the basic allocation, you get such painful situations that I took up in a reply to the representative Lena Jensen earlier today. The second is that if you use the fund's return fully and finance current expenditure, for example. The EU Framework Programme, the Fund is not used to create any margins of freedom. In addition, if the Research Council is controlled in detail and the Research Council's budget is not strengthened, the three most important steps have been taken to ensure that there are margins of freedom by strengthening research in Norway. This happens at the same time as we have had the Quality Reform for evaluation. We are committed to getting a greater margin of freedom for research. It's related to restoring the cut on the basis. It's about going back to the rules most people agreed on in their time when we dealt with the research report, namely that the return of the fund becomes seed capital and free bets for the future. We are committed to restoring freedom to the Research Council, and we are also committed to ensuring that the Institute sector is fully funded, which means that at least in the view of the Left, the Government can consider looking at the Research Council's proposal to secure the Institute sector. When it comes to research, it's because we have a good public school, a good primary school. The PISA debate has updated the debate on the quality of Norwegian school. A lot is good at school. I'm the first to say that, but it's of course incredibly far from good when we fall behind on completely basic skills. Everyone agrees. In this context, the Left is pleased that our new Minister of Knowledge will invest in the teacher, ensure that teachers are well educated and trained. So far, these have become expressions in policies that delight the heart of a left-wing representative. But if these are expressions that flash in one direction, the actions flash in another direction. For the money, the medicine that Huitfeldt’s representative dosed in his time is that you have to spend the money on a free mid-hour SFO and five hours extra to get to a full-day school instead of spending the money on reforming teacher training, rather than spending the money on systematic further education and rather than spending the money on recruiting teachers. Here the priority is very clear. The Honorary Orders are in place, the insight behind the Honorary Orders I choose to believe is there too, but the priority is that at this point it is the Labour Party law that has been passed through in the Government, and not the Minister of Knowledge's thinking. It is then a use of money that does not strengthen systematic continuing training, it is a use of money that does not strengthen the recruitment of teachers. And then there are real priorities. The left has deliberately said in its budget that we don't choose fruit and green over fresh buildings, we don't choose five extra hours in school rather than recruiting teachers and rather than getting a start on systematic further education for teachers. We make a choice within the framework that we have at our disposal. Our concrete proposals are, then, to extend general teacher training to five years, to ensure that it has an improved, different content, with a high density to the profession, professionally and specialised in relation to the various stages in which they are taught in primary school. We are too senior to take care of good teachers that we have, we are in order to set up separate pedagogical qualification scholarships to recruit people from other professions, and we are in favour of systematic further training, which we have called a teacher's vow, and which in our neighbouring country Sweden is now being conducted from 1 January next year as a systematic further training for Swedish teachers. As far as other aspects of education policy are concerned, although kindergartens are within a different framework, we are happy to bet on kindergartens. But we think we also have to focus on quality here, and we're proposing a total of 50 million. Dr for skills enhancement, recruitment and research in kindergartens – that is part of our whole. In the case of the school leisure scheme, it is municipal, but we are concerned about the quality of the scheme. That is why we are promoting a proposal, No. 36, which I am also referring to, which is that the government is asked to make sure that the municipalities can make sure that we have a framework for the school leisure system that can ensure quality. So finally some other considerations. This budget covers a great many areas, including the Norwegian Church. The left is very, very critical of the way the Government manages the returns of the Information Society's fund. We have expressed that in previous debates, and I think it is quite right to repeat it here too. There are not many funds in Norway where returns are constitutional. That's it, and up there, we've had a Santa Claus Act that's been tested in the courts against constitutional law. However, the Government does not seem to listen to the concerns of the courts as regards the constitutional provisions regarding the Government’s willingness to make an emptying directive that seeks to infringe fundamental laws. We have been very critical of this in the committee position today, and I think it is right to repeat the criticism. It is also very strange to think of the people's church as the Council of State Gishe is very concerned to ensure, at least until a broad debate is reached in the Grand Council, that the important means to secure the structures of the Council of Churches are cut. In the opinion of the Left, they were cut to do something that is objectively positive, namely to ensure the training of faith. It is good that the reform of religious education is continued, but it is not good that it is financed by cutting what goes to the church council. So finally, the current government is in the situation that it comes after in terms of research policy, just like on climate policy, where it is challenged by a blue-green coalition, namely the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. One has no offensive will to invest in research policy. On the contrary, one just tries to explain away and apologize for the fact that there was a lot worse in the past. It's a bad starting point for the fight for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7088	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7093	Let me first thank the representative Dørum because he says that I am good at using honorary words. I understand that in this context I have been boasted by an expert, at least in terms of the view of the Research Fund. For the research fund's appropriations, there were the following priorities in the State budget of the previous government, of which Dørum was part: the increase in 2002 DKK 3 billion, 2003 DKK 3 billion, 2004 DKK 1 billion and 2005 DKK 3.2 billion. Since the government took over, we've increased by 14 billion dollars in the first year, 10 billion dollars in the second year and 6 billion dollars this year. Does the representative Dørum think it's more important what honors you use when you're in opposition than what you actually do when you're in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7098	I believe the Huitfeldt representative and I have a common pleasure in rhetoric in the policy service, so there we have common interests. But let me go to the matter. I have been in the fight for ten years to strengthen research in Norway, in two governments in a minority. Now I'm dealing with a majority government. I find that with two minority governments, it was easier to interact with the Storting to get a boost in research than with a majority government. In today's situation, the Left shows through its budgets what we want. We're prioritizing different than the red-green government is capable of. We're showing that it's possible to add the $4 billion per. years to ensure 1 pst. of gross domestic product for research purposes. It's our line within a responsible financial framework. I thought this was an area where, for example, The Workers' Party and the Left had something in common: the old slogan 'Knowledge is power' and that knowledge forms the basis for the society of the future. Yes, a new era is in progress," says the Workers' Party. If a new era is to be in progress, at least one must bet on research. There is a dry Left priority in a way that the Workers' Party's representatives cannot do with the government position, and there is a substantive difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7107	Left writes in its position on the budget: 'Left notes that the Government has a great deal of will to govern the Norwegian Church, but lacks the willingness to support it financially.' This is a positive error. The economy of the Norwegian Church has never been better than today. The State subsidy is higher than before, the local economy has improved, it is 125 million. SEK for the training of faith in the year's budget and that the proste reform is on track with a budget of 26 million. kr. That was $4 million. kr under the previous government. In 2003, there was a headline in the media about churches that had to close down, priests who had to go, etc., plus poor church buildings. Would Dørum say that my description of the situation of the Norwegian Church in 2003 is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7112	I lived in 2003 and know very well what the actual situation was. But now we are in 2007 and are discussing the budget for 2008. That's now we have to make our choices. In this context, the SV and the Left have given a different priority within the common economic framework. The left has been strongly opposed to giving an instruction that captures values in the Information Society's fund, as the Government has done with the Santa Claus directive, and is willing to implement it. There is a clear difference of opinion, and there is a difference of opinion that is also broken by the provisions of the Basic Law. With regard to the economy in the budget, I would like to commend the Government for building up the faith training reform. It's very positive, but our criticism is very concretely linked to the treatment of the ecclesiastical councils. We all know, at least I know that, how important they are, and the heads that were there gave an important space for action, so that the councils would have a margin of freedom to do a reasonable job. But I'm going to end by saying, it's very positive that the government will strengthen the reform of belief education, and then we're going to hope that when the state church case comes, it's made in such a way that we can have an open and free discussion in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7120	I noticed that the representative Dørum is not interested in talking about the past, as he was responsible and was in government. That is why I want to give the representative a chance to explain what the Left is doing in the Committee, or rather not. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party have a note that goes to private schools, where we say that public funds should only go to education and still not be available for commercial activities. We must say that we are somewhat surprised that the Left in that case sticks to the Right and the Advance Party. The question is simple: why in the world isn't the Left involved in our remark here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7127	About the past and the present – since I lived in my own past, I would say that I did not use the time when I had a responsibility, which is similar to that of some others in the hall today, to blame my predecessors for depreciating my deeds in the present. I took responsibility for it there and then, whether it was acidic or it was good. What is astonishing today is that the Workers' Party seems to have to move on a time journey to take responsibility at all in the present time. I don't want to give advice to others, but I think it's better to take the fight for the future than to fight for who has the best or the worst past. So to that statement, it falls on its own obvious unreasonableness. It is true that when we had the private school law for treatment, it was the left who, together with the Right, made proposals for very clear provisions in order to defeat such a fraud that has now occurred in the Bauer schools. It's clear that it's completely unacceptable in any context that someone acts like this. I'm not going to jump up and down, because it's not true in Stortinget, but I can say with strong words that there are some cheats and heresies with Norwegian legislation that are incredibly little honorable. That's where we have a joint effort to turn down. At that point, there is no disagreement between the Working Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7134	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7137	It's a myth that's seggliva in Norway, and that's why we're rich, is that we have huge natural resources, special oil and gas. That's wrong. Each fall, in the middle of the bookhouse, an excellent book, i.e. the national budget, comes out, and in the 2007 national budget, a survey of Norway’s national wealth is made up of an average Norwegian person. 4 pst. of the national wealth of a person is the total value of all the oil and gas we have on the seabed in Norway, which we know about. 3 pst. is the sum of all the money, public and private that we have on the book, and then, of course, the petroleum fund is a significant part of it, while the human capital, that is, the value of our future and current work in what we have in our heads and hands, is 85 pst. I'm for the money we have on the book, and I'm for the oil and the gas that we have on the bottom of the sea, but that means that the investments we make in school and in education or otherwise are fundamental to our future. This is precisely why the results of the PISA and PIRLS studies are so serious, because we have a very high level of education in Norway, many with higher education, many skilled and competent people, which is a major cause of our prosperity today. Then we have to make sure that the kindergarten and school we now have, which is the backbone of the knowledge society of the future, is good. Much is good in Norwegian school, and many elephants do well because of skilled and engaged teachers, but what is very serious — the most serious — is that as many as 22 pst. by Norwegian schoolchildren read so poorly that they have difficulty using the information. There's a clear increase from the year 2000. Reading is important because reading and writing, the basic things, are important in all subjects. It is also important when taking professional and vocational training later. I meet employers who are skeptical about recruiting apprentices, for example. who can speak Norwegian or English for poor. It is important in the workplace and in society later. It's also an important social issue. We know that there's a very strong connection between reading and accounting skills and insurance later in life. So what do we do? Fortunately, in this budget we have many measures that point in the right direction. First of all, there is a basis for maintaining a common school. It's an important basis we have in Norway, that everyone is going mainly in the same school, that it's where we're going to put the resources and the measures. Then several hours is important. The previous government, with the Christian People's Party, the Left and Right, did important things to expand the hour. Now we're expanding the hour by five hours, two to Norwegian, which we're going to make sure is widely used for reading, but the other hours will also be used for reading, because reading is important in all disciplines. This is why it is an important measure. Of course, we also have to make sure that the mandatory screening tests in accounting and reading that are now at the second stage are used to follow up the individual student and improve the teaching against them. Then we take important steps in teacher education, because we have known for too many years that there is a significant challenge, and we follow up with a considerable effort in the Knowledge Lift, for further education. So I'm going to learn that when we talk about early learning, we can't think that it starts at the age of five-six. It starts before. Therefore, low prices in kindergartens are very important. What's surprising is to see that in these areas, the opposition simply can't gather around in one direction. There is no direction in general school. It's not a clear direction towards having several hours – there's different views about it. It's not a clear direction when it comes to kindergarten and cash support, on the contrary. There is a wrong direction when it comes to ensuring that the price of kindergartens goes down, so that more people get the important supply that it is, which has a meaning for basic skills afterwards. One of the studies that have come up shows that there is a clear correlation between the number of years in kindergarten and reading skills later. It is a good budget that is being presented, which will take us in the right direction, but we have great challenges ahead of us in the years to come, with systematic efforts within the school. The challenge has begun to be addressed by the red-green government. So we have to work systematically with teacher training, increasing the number of hours so that we get a full day school, and with many other important measures in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7158	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7161	I notice that the Council of State is trying to make a point that the opposition is unable to gather. I expect the Council of State has noticed that the opposition is united behind 16 proposals and so many and extensive comments that it could probably have been published as a separate book and was best-selling the next harvest – and that is an improvement. Worse than that, the government and government parties do not agree with themselves. I think maybe the State Council should spend more time agreeing with itself and its party traps in SV – and the other party colleagues – before the accusations go in the direction that the opposition is unable to gather. So the former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal, among others. as a result of approx. One year at the back of the Ministry of Knowledge said the SV's batch program with regard to grades is wrong. He himself said he went against SV's program formulation that you should not have grades in school. Now there is a relatively broad consensus that grades in the trades are actually important to discover where the weaknesses are and how to manage to get better. Does SV’s new Minister of Knowledge agree with SV’s programme, or does he agree with his predecessor that grades are correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7168	Of course, SV's brilliant programme applies to a new programme being agreed on for the next major period, and the Minister of Knowledge is of course in agreement with the Government's policy, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. Then to unity and disunity. For one thing, we have to ask the question: what policy do we get when it comes to all-day school, if it were to be the same plurality in the Stortinget once in the future as we had in the previous period? Are we getting no to all day school or yes to all day school? What policies do we get when it comes to fruit and green and free textbooks? Are we getting a yes or no? What policies do we get when it comes to private schools? Do we, perhaps, get a combination of the Christian People's Party's view of all-day school, the Right's view of free textbooks in secondary school and the Progress Party's view of private schools? It's these differences that are a major challenge for the opposition. It's not a clear direction. The government, on the other hand, is actually presenting a budget and has a statement where we have a clear direction of education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7177	I want to follow up on what the representative Anders Anundsen said, because there is no doubt that at least SV has now become a hot defender of everything SV was against just a short time ago. One of the questions to which it might be interesting to get an answer from the Council of State – the same question I asked the representative Jensen – concerns aesthetics as a basic competence. Governments are now saying that SV's batch program applies to a new batch program being adopted. The SV's batch programme states that aesthetics should be introduced as basic competence in the school. So the Council of State says at the same time that it's a matter of course that the Council of State agrees with the Government. But the government doesn't agree with itself. For the Workers' Party, aesthetics do not want as basic competence. The question then is: when there is disagreement between SV's batch program and what SV is supposed to mean in government, what is the issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7184	When you have a government with different parties, the games are selected in a program. So one negotiates to an agreement, a declaration, and the Sem statement and the Soria Moria statement are examples of that. There is what the Government is going to do. SV is so lucky that we have been very much impressed by much of our good school policy in the Soria Moria Declaration. So has the Labour Party and the Center Party. That is the declaration we are now making. There we have also established five basic skills, among the social competences, and not least reading and accounting, where it is now revealed that we have significant challenges. So the government's policy follows the Soria Moria declaration – a policy we put forward and get signed here in Stortinget if it's a plurality for him. In addition, the individual parts have applications that they opted for, and in the next round we go to choices for new applications. So that's the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7193	The last answer countered probably the whole criticism the Council of State had to the opposition's speck, but I'll leave it lying right now. I need to ask for a concrete thing. We are not dealing with the KRL case today, but there are some comments about it in the budget that the Christian People's Party has not been involved in. When this case and proposal to change the CRL were sent out to the hearing, some interviews with the Council of State made me worried. For example: In the newspaper Our Land he said that now it was going to end preaching in the KRL. I need the Council of State to confirm to me, in this Chamber, that the text contained in the old training law, that is, what works today, and what the Government has now sent out to the hearing on the subject of preaching, is exactly the same. It has not been allowed to preach, and it should not be allowed to preach, no matter what the new result will be. Can the Council confirm that it has not been legal, nor in the CRL subject we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7202	It is quite right that we should not be preaching in the CRL field today, nor should we be having it in the future. The background to my statements is that we have experienced something quite serious in the last six months, namely that Norway has been convicted in the European Court of Human Rights for having a subject where the Christian portion violates human rights. And when we have that, we're obliged to follow up with changes that make it clear. So that judgment has failed in saying that Norwegian courts have said that it is not a problem. And then the government thinks we're going to have a school that's in line with human rights. Especially a subject that creates respect and dialogue must be clearly in line with human rights. It's on the background that we've made the changes in the name and in the laws and in the curriculum to make sure that there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7208	The Council of State and the Left agree on something absolutely crucial: that the school is entirely dependent on teachers — good teachers and many enough teachers. That being said, I wonder why I have to ask a question – on this basis: entire Education Norway, all those who work at school, in the Education Association, the Lecturer Team, the Student Organisation – absolutely everyone – agree that we will lack teachers because of the age situation, the average age, in both high school and primary school. Therefore, when the Left in our promoted proposal to get national recruitment plans for teachers both in high school and in primary school, it had broad support among those who work in the everyday field of education. The majority received the proposal — no support from the former government council and parties, and when it comes to voting later today, the Left's proposal, which now stands together for an overall opposition, is not supported either. How is it possible for the Council of State to want to invest so much in the teachers and at the same time be so unwilling to launch obliging recruitment plans to ensure that we get enough teachers and good teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7217	There are important questions, because we are going to have major challenges in the years to come, when it comes to recruiting teachers for school, not least to ensure that we have a teacher training that recruits skilled and motivated teachers in the future. Next year, as we expand the number of hours, it will be possible, after all, to get competent and competent teachers, to the extent that the municipalities in that context have added new teachers, to which I would strongly encourage. But we definitely have a longer term challenge. That's why we need to look at how we can recruit more teachers to school – it's a wide range of tools – we need to look at the content of teacher training and go through how it can be even better than today, because I think it matters to how many people are looking and who we can thus get to school in the future. So here we share the main goals, and we will come back to the Storting with important things when it comes to teacher recruitment and teacher training in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7226	We have just received a number of results from some comparative studies in which Norwegian school students are very poor compared to the funds we put into Norwegian school, and far worse than the countries we are going to compete with. At the same time, we see that Norwegian school students, otherwise in the same way as the Government, think they are much better than they are. One of the few areas in which we cut high is relative to self-esteem. So my question is: what tools will the Council of State use to realize Norwegian school students and to motivate them to improve, so that we can maintain our competitiveness and improve it in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7233	My clear view is that instead of dropping self-confidence to the same level as reading and accounting results, we're going to drag the level of skill in reading and counting up to the same level as self-confidence. But it's a very big challenge for many years to come. Let me briefly mention some of the things I was about to do. I think an extended school day with a significantly enhanced content is an important tool. I believe that a commitment to teachers, both the role of teachers, systematic continuing training and a new general teacher training, is important. And then I think it's important to know how much kids can learn early, the first few years, both before they start school and the first few years of school, because that's where we can lay the foundation for good skills for everyone in reading and accounting and other important schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7240	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7243	The Berg Committee concluded in 2000 that the labour market had a high need for vocational training, which is not defined as secondary or higher education. The «between bark and knowledge» described the need for shorter and vocational vocational vocational education. Vocational schools cover a significant segment: they provide education that is not offered by higher education institutions or that is very scarce at public universities. Students go to work quickly, the transition to the labour market is high, and innovation and entrepreneurship are contributed by many of the students starting new and viable businesses. Private vocational schools are not supported by the State. The fact that the students themselves are fully funding their education makes great demands on the schools, and the expectations for quality are high. Many actors have been waiting for clarification in relation to the financing of vocational education. The size has asked for it in 2004 and expected it in 2005, and it has been repeated in 2006 and in the spring session this year, but the clarification has still been postponed in time. There are many who hoped and thought that vocational education would be lifted out of high school, but then the regional report came, which said that funding would be reviewed. The result is that future regions will be responsible for vocational education. This is a step in the wrong direction, in the opinion of the Progress Party. The government parties themselves have pointed out that vocational education should be a real alternative to higher education – but will it be when responsibility lies at different levels of government? The Progress Party has also previously underlined that vocational education can be an equivalent offer to university and higher education, and we have shown Finland, where they have built a parallel higher-level education system where you can take both practical and vocational bachelor and master, and also have transition opportunities to the other higher education system. This is a good example of the fact that vocational education can retain its distinctive character by being practical and professional and at the same time equivalent to other higher education. It is an international trend to take a holistic approach to the educational needs of higher education. The solutions may be different, but it is important that the focus on the need for skills is clear from an overall economic and societal perspective. Unfortunately, we are far from such a reality in Norway. One can ask himself whether vocational education is a real alternative to other higher education. Today, more than 10,000 people attend technical schools every year. The approximately 3,000 students at our technical colleges get 100 pst. is funded. Furthermore, we have 2,500 students at colleges who don't have their parallels in high school, who get covered 25 pst. of the public, while the remaining must cover everything themselves. In the case of the other tertiary education courses, such as colleges and universities, we apply the free principle here in the country. Why is vocational training to be treated in such a way as to be voiced? Could it be because they are mainly private providers? Today, we have a relatively large decline in higher education. Sometimes we've seen that it's close to 30 pst. There may be several reasons for this, but a significant reason is probably incorrect choice. In the opinion of the Progress Party, increased emphasis on vocational education may help to ease the pressure on higher education and reduce the drop-out rate. We are convinced that higher education can become too academic for some, and that these students will often have better benefits from vocational education. Another factor is that vocational education is too little known, and, as far as it is known, funding is likely to play a significant role. Higher education is free, and when the option is to pay for the education itself, there are certainly many who let the wallet control the choice. This is considered to be tragic because it is clear that many young people over the age of 19 and adults need practical and vocational continuing training. The government's conflicting signals on the subject of vocational education and funding give a wide range of cause for concern. On the one hand, the budget paper we are discussing today says that the Government will come back with a proposal for a funding regime for the vocational schools in the spring of 2008 as a result of a demand from a unanimous committee. Then we get the so-called welfare agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. By Monday at the latest, the Minister of Health and several representatives stated that, on the basis of that agreement, the Government will submit proposals for financing vocational education and training for the health sector by 2009. I am sincerely concerned that the government parties with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left are once again pushing the subject school funding out in time. Although there is an alarming need for public funding for health and social education, I strongly warn against ignoring other socially useful and important vocational education courses. I am also deeply concerned that the funding of vocational schools is at risk of getting involved in framework transfers to new regions. This will mean that vocational education completely loses its status. I wish the Council of State could give clear signals of the opposite. The Progress Party has proposed to allocate 100 million in the budget. kr in order to bring vocational education to the fore.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7275	By the end of 2006, less than 3.9 million persons were registered as members of or members of the Norwegian Church. The membership represents 82.7 pst. by the population. 67 pst. of all 14-year-olds confirmed in the Church, and 92 pst. by those who die, receive a church tomb. This shows that there is a great uprising around the Church, and that the Church concerns many. In the budget configuration of the Church, Education and Research Committee, an overall committee considers that: «The Church shall preserve and continue our Christian cultural heritage, convey the beliefs and values which characterize Christianity and retain its identity as a church of the people». It adds up to a constructive discussion about the church issue of spring, and it's a strength for our church that there's such a broad uprising about it also in the committee. The 2008 church budget is 25 million new. SEK for the reform of belief training. So it's going to be halfway up by 125 million. kr in 2008. It is completely in line with the arrangement that was added when it began. The majority of the Committee welcomes this. As the Committee stresses, faith training is important for the Norwegian Church to develop further as a church of the people. In our multicultural society, belief training can contribute to bridge construction. Knowledge and security of one's own faith and identity can create dialogue and understanding between people who do not always share the same belief or view of life. In the 2008 budget, we also propose an increase of 9 million. kr for the implementation of the proste reform. It's historically loud. So we've now added 26 million. kr for the reform. 22 million of these have come after the government change in 2005. The Nidaros Pilgrim Centre can be completed in 2008 as a result of a grant from the State to this effect. We have also strengthened the Seaman's Church in the budget, as we have done in the past. I notice that the minority in the committee underlines the need for more performances. The priority of the draft budget for training reform and proste reform is in line with the wishes of church bodies. I'm open to a discussion about whether there should be a special focus on more performances in the future, but there's reason to stress that the proste reform also means a strengthening of the performance by relieving the performers of their part of the service, so that they can have more room to be leaders. With regard to the recruitment issue, I refer to the Committee's joint comment that many different approaches are needed to address the recruitment need. However, the fact that, in a situation of very tight labour market — unemployment in Norway is historically low — is also a lower number of applicants for the services is natural. The opposition also notes the General Councils and the interest-rate compensation mechanism. The operating grant to the Joint Councils was established by the introduction of a new church law in 1997 to enable the councils to adapt to changes in the law. It has been constantly signalled, under various governments, that the State is not responsible for the operation of the General Councils. This is a municipal problem. For this reason, – as the replicants of the government parties also discussed earlier in the debate – subsidies have been stepped down over several years. However, the economy of the municipalities is crucial, since they are responsible for the operation. That is, of course, the crucial criterion for the good economy of the Consultative Councils. And with the amazing development in the local economy after the government change, with an increase of well over DKK 20 billion, it is the most important measure to ensure a good economy for the councils. The municipalities are also responsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of the churches, and once again the local economy is crucial. Nevertheless, in 2005, the State introduced an interest-rate compensation scheme to stimulate the refurbishment of churches, so that this work would be speeded up. This arrangement has been stepped up for several rounds, including: $300 million. kr in spring in connection with the revised state budget. It thus amounted to NOK 1.3 billion in 2007. The interest compensation as such is higher than ever. The budget statement also raises the issue of ownership of the Information Society Fund. We have also discussed this in an interpellation debate and in a Question Time. We mean the same thing as we said before: there is no doubt that the state has the ownership of OVF. It was also written by the government of Bondevik in large-scale papers in the previous period. What kind of ownership we'll get from a possible distinction between state and church, it's again a political question and not a legal one.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7302	In the belief that both the Council of State and I are genuinely concerned with church policy, I will ask two concrete and relatively short questions, and I would strongly ask the Council of State to answer as briefly and as concretely as possible. The first concerns the last state council, the ownership of OVF. We know that there is disagreement between the government parties and the opposition about who is the owner of the fund – i.e. there are some of us who want to solve it by a future matter of state-church relations, while the Council of State has made a legal conclusion. Can the Council of State now be quite clear that regardless of what kind of law is used, there is a political issue in the last instance, and that there will be no legal performance in a political decision of ownership of the OVF? The second question is, can the Council of State assure that he will not contribute to further reduction of the level of transfer and the value base for church purposes in the period up to a clarification of the future relationship between church and state?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7309	As far as ownership is concerned, I can only repeat what we have said in these debates all the time. The Bondevik government displayed in St.meld. No 41 for 2004-2005 for an opinion in St.meld. No 14 for 2000-2001 from the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, which I would like to quote: ‘After reviewing the legal sources involved and the historical background of the Information Society Fund, the Legal Service has concluded that it must be considered as certain that the State is the owner of the Fund.’ But if there is a distinction between state and church, the Church must bring the economy into operation, and it is much more than the Information Society's fund. In any case, we have said from the Labour Party in our National Assembly that it is a Community responsibility to ensure a good economy for the Church, and then there will also be a political question about what happens to the Information Society's fund. With regard to the use of the Information Society's fund, the changes we have made have just been made in order to increase the input from the OVF, among others. by taking out the capitalisation of the fund for various church activities, so that it actually strengthens the Church's operating economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7321	The Church has a recruitment challenge – it was the Council of State too. In my own diocese, Hamar, there was a message yesterday that for the first time you had not managed to get a single new candidate for a vacant position in Trysil. The message is that the situation is difficult elsewhere. In Hamar diocese, an active recruitment policy has been pursued, and has actually also been praised by the minister of the church for that very thing. This is a complex issue – among other things. is this with demands for employment and employment in general key challenges. So the right-hand side has gone up by $15 million. kr extra to the pastoral service. But Hamar's diocese also says that they believe that the challenge could be solved in the short term by offering priests who want it, a little more than 100 pst. position. Such an option would increase flexibility. What will the Minister of the Church do so that District Norway will not be completely without priests in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7329	It is true that we are now facing a recruitment challenge partly because the labour market is so tight. It is not only within the public sector or within the Church that you experience that there are few applicants for jobs. In some sectors and sectors now there is simply a shortage of labour. It's a good thing that we have full employment, but it creates certain challenges for the flow of work. It is also positive in the sense that performance - trained people are attractive in many types of positions. In both the public and business sectors, performances are used for things other than what they may have been originally trained for. But in the long term, we get a bigger challenge, because we're facing a generation change: a lot of achievements end – become pensioners – over the next ten years. The more important it is that we produce the prestige profession as attractive – get it out – and that we do as both the previous government and the government before it has worked on, the service system more attractive, with the possibility of more orderly working hours, the possibility of fixed weekend breaks, etc. All of this and a good community economy that provides a good support system around the priests can make it more attractive for the pastors to apply for a job in the Church and for young people to enter a clergy education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7336	I just need to say two things in the introduction to my line. One is that the Council of State constantly refers to what the previous government has granted in relation to church economics. I just want to remind you that this government has 132 extra billion dollars to distribute, and in that context, the lack of investment in the Church becomes strange. I would also like to stress that the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice has never been and will never be the Bondevik government, but they had the conclusion that the Council of State also came to the OVF. Then comes my question: Many churches have challenges associated with poor finances, lack of priests, churches that fall due. We have challenges in many areas. In school matters, the Minister of Knowledge has now moved out and told our municipal politicians to get clear signals that the government wants to bet on school and that it needs to be followed up locally. My question to the Council of State is: Is he going to give as clear a signal to municipal politicians as regards the Church and bet on the local church around the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7345	Firstly, the Information Society's fund. Well, it's the Law Department that has pronounced itself. But the Bondevik government has therefore chosen to quote that law department in its own big message to the Stortinge without saying at all that this is an interpretation that the Government has a different view of. It's quite possible if you mean it. So we're probably going to assume that we had the same Law Department in the Ministry of Justice as we do now, and that we're going to use these legal interpretations. Yes, we have more money to distribute, so the 2008 budget is the best church budget ever. There have never been any more priests in the Norwegian Church, there have never been major transfers to the Norwegian Church, nor has there ever been a better community economy, which will provide local responsibility for the Church. The representative Dørum – who comes after – is very bad that we like to compare with the past, but it is actually relevant in politics to compare what you actually do when you sit with power. And in 2003 and 2004, the Church economy was in crisis. I hope the municipalities will use the increased freedom of action to prioritise the Church as well. The cut in the appropriations of the Church Council corresponds to approximately NOK 50000 per year. Joint Councils. With increased freedom of action, it should be fully possible for municipalities not only to compensate for it, but also to invest more in the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7354	There are constantly new experiences with the Council of State Gieske — this time a reply without the line. At least the councils and I have, hopefully, one thing in common: we take responsibility when we have it. That's where my question comes from. The Council of State began, rightly, to describe the place of the Norwegian Church in the Norwegian people – many are members, many participate in the fundamental actions of the Church. The Council of State was also concerned that we would have a case about the future organisation of the Church of State. In that context, I have a two-part question to the Council of State. When will we have the matter of the state church's future organization for Stortinget? There have been various reports of this, but no one can be better at answering that question than the Council of State itself. Since the Government has taken good time, when the Storting gets the case, you will be presented with different alternatives, so that you have a basis for an open and free discussion of the matter, as many have wanted? It is a wish that I – at least for certain periods during the procedure – have experienced that the Council of State has also stood by. These are my two questions to the Council of State. It concerns the present and future responsibilities of an important case – both for the Government and for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7367	Yes, there will be a case that will include a broad discussion of the various proposals of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the views of the Hearing Officers – and of course possible solutions for a wide-ranging conciliation. As the representative knows, we set up a dialogue with the opposition before we present the position, so that – if we have not just reached the conclusion – we have at least started the dialogue before we have a document in Stortinget. And that document will come in good time – in the new year – so that you can deal with it in the spring of 2008. This is necessary if constitutional changes are to be made, if necessary. So to this by comparing before and now. We have to take responsibility when we have it. But the representative Dørum has to figure out that when we make a budget, we compare today's church economy to what happened under the previous government. In 2003-2004 it was a serious crisis. The churches couldn't keep open. In some churches, one could not keep it warm in winter. The government that Dørum was in, brought a $25 million crisis package. kr for remedying the emergency situation. You have to find yourself in being held responsible for actions, not just words.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7378	As a result of a question asked to the Council of State earlier, there was a media focus yesterday that OVF places around. 150 million. kr in disputed hedge funds. This means placement in non-transparent papers and can mean placement in, among other things. arms industry, tobacco, alcohol and other activities for which the Church meeting has expressed zero tolerance. Why does the Minister of the Church not want an opinion on this – when we see that the Minister of Finance is very concerned about the ethics of placing the funds in the pension fund, and in the light of the government's comments on the Terra scandal? Is the State Council only concerned with losing the fund and distributing Lotto gains?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7385	Of course, the Ministry of the Church does not make the financial arrangements and investments in respect of the fund. A board of its own is responsible for the fund, and of course it is its own professional experts on financial investments who place the money. But of course there is one significant difference between OVF and the Nordic municipalities. This is where you invest money, not money you borrow on the basis of future income. Nor does the government have a policy that says that the type of investment should not be made in hedge funds. There are experts who can get returns from these too. However, there must be a balance between risk and safety, between return requirements and long-term sustainability. I trust that the OVF government and those who work there will take care of that. In terms of the economic situation, the return of OVF is an important source of much church activity. I am pleased that the opposition, the bourgeois parties, is so concerned with the church economy – much more now than when they were in government. It should mean that we should keep the bourgeois parties in opposition, so that they continue to be concerned with church economics.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7396	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7399	I have noticed that there have been some attempts to go a bit in the clinic with the opposition in this case with crack – one mentions the right leadership role etc. I think the government in itself should notice that you have a very good basis for agreeing – when everyone agrees that there is much more to be done, and that it should be focused on knowledge and demands. Resource efforts at the top of the world – many beautiful words, celebrations and a lot of focus on the knowledge society of the future despite: the education system, from childhood up to universities, all of which speak of as the foundation of our future well-being, do not produce satisfactory results. The goal of Norway becoming one of the most innovative and knowledge-based countries in the world is not much disagreement, fortunately. But in an open world where we are not alone on such a goal, and which is characterized by open competition, action must once again follow word and analysis, as one did when Kristin Clement was the Council of State. The promise of knowledge was the answer to many of the challenges that PISA, PIRLS and national tests show that we are facing. It is a very important, correct and necessary step, but we also need to look for improvements and new measures – we need to see what is not working. The Minister of Knowledge is now in the middle of the strenuous exercise of scrapping the SV's school policy platform — while he is in position. I perceive his articles so that the problem he has started now. He and SV are therefore on their way into the platform that others left when the Knowledge promise was adopted. SV has then taken the position of late adoptors in Norwegian school policy. Norwegian schools need rather one who, once again, dare go ahead to the next station, as Kristin Clement did. The promise of knowledge presupposes a requirement for the entire chain of action in Norwegian school. It consists of big business, school owner, school manager, teacher and – eventually – student. All terms must be required. We all want a teacher with authority, status and competence. Making demands, demanding results, is pretty tough, but that's the core of creating respect, status and authority. One of the great paradoxes when you look at the challenges of school is that the teachers as a group appear to be happy. When the results are not there, one should think that this also went out there. The local executive school owner must be concerned with results and discuss with and make demands on the principal and teacher. Oslo Municipality is showing way there. Their results in the national tests show that active ownership and requirements for school leaders yield results. The title «The Four Towers of Oslo's East Edge» in Today's Business this day was no coincidence. So a little bit about the universities and research. Our ambitions are irreprehensible. However, universities and colleges that need to install internal roofing, collect water in buckets, cut down academic resources to a minimum, and can barely afford to accept the grant holders that the Government has found room for lack of basic funding, are not particularly competitive. The fight for the talents is tough. Akademia no longer has its natural status and authority. They must be able to compete for the brightest heads with other sectors with at least the same attractiveness. In addition, once the Government has given up both the 3 pst target and the active use of R & D-based business-driven instruments, we have a UH sector and a research sector in a crisis of expectation. The Norwegian Industry R & D study reveals that there has been almost a standstill in research efforts in industry in the last two years. Strong growth in turnover and profitability should focus on finding the basis for future growth. The user-driven instruments initiated by the previous government – SkattenFUNN, BIA and R & D contracts – have proved to be highly effective, but the Research Council is far from receiving the expected share of the Research Fund’s earnings in 2008. The increased rate of return is instead used for the membership quota in the 7th framework programme of the EU and others, so that the Council is experiencing a decrease in the appropriations. It weakens the user-driven bet. The combination of high objectives and low appropriations makes it possible to undermine the free principle, and there is no merit in doing so. It is therefore time for action. We've got a research minister, but the government's policy hasn't changed. With DKK 130 billion in increased room for manoeuvre in the state budgets over the last two years, it should be possible to demand that you get out of the fog room to bet on this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7418	I thought I would start with something very special – and I think the president has to stick to it – because the committee actually fully agrees on one thing, and that is to facilitate the establishment of a new education here in the country, namely chiropractor training. Today, hundreds of students wanting to become chiropractors have to travel abroad to study, despite the fact that the chiropractors have been given a rather important place and position in Health Norway through a number of decisions. We believe that further integration of chiropractors into Norwegian healthcare is becoming increasingly important. By doing so, you will be able to have better multidisciplinary cooperation, which in turn will make better use of the competences of chiropractors. And by reducing the number of sick messages, not only the everyday life of individuals will be better, but also socio-economically, this will mean a huge amount. Societal costs caused by musculoskeletal disorders are quantifiable $40 billion a year. Half of the long-term reports are due to such diseases. Nor is there any doubt that chiropractor training is supported by the Government’s initiative in order to reduce the number of sick messages and unemployed persons. Knowledge of the cause of the disease and effective treatment methods is currently limited. There is therefore a great need to strengthen research into musculoskeletal disorders, with emphasis on chiropractic. With the decision we are making today, we have taken a long step towards establishing such chiropractor training. There will be questions about the location of such education rather quickly. Of course, there have to be basic professional assessments here, but two universities have worked a lot on this, which gives a very good starting point. It's the University of Oslo and the University of Stavanger. Then the basis is in place. One may quickly get the impression that there have been dramatic changes in the economy of the Norwegian Church when a reader reads the budget position, but that is not the case. Although the Christian People's Party writes in the statement that the Government lacks a church budget, here and now I can confirm that the Stortinget will give the Government a church budget that has never been bigger. The total state allocation to the Norwegian Church accounts for about one third of the total economy. Overall, we are talking about NOK 1,317 billion, or – to say it in the way of the Progress Party – SEK 1 317 million. kr. So it's never been granted any more. Then I guess there's $2 billion left in the total transfer, and these billions come from the municipalities. For the Church, it is very important that the municipalities have a sound and good economy, simply because two thirds of the transfers to the Church are just coming from there. This context is important. This context is also important because it affects the state's contribution to the Church's economy. So we can't say that when we increase the transfers to the municipalities by over $20 billion on the one hand, and reduce the earmarked grant to the church councils by 24 million. kr on the other hand, it affects local freedom of action. In that case, this relationship becomes unclear to me. Although many people are very sorry that the government keeps reminding them that the municipalities have had large increases in transfers from the state, this is still a reality. This situation must be known by the councils, and they must use the position they have to engage in good discussions with the municipality, so that the contribution of the municipality is proportionate to the expectations of the municipality itself to the central tasks of the local church and its employees with regard to the provision of services to its citizens. I am not convinced that the joint councils are good enough to create the good cooperation venues or structures that are necessary between municipalities and parish councils/joint councils. Here, too, the local church must take responsibility. I am very pleased that this budget is fulfilling the promise of the stepping-up plan for the training reform. We've heard that it's now up to 125 million. So you're going to be halfway up the stairs. Another major reform is the proste reform. It has been proposed to add 9 million. kr in the budget for 2008. The Committee is well aware of the challenges faced by the Church in recruiting priests. This challenge is complex – not least the labour market is so tight today that mobility is also high for performance. This means that you have to look at several pages here, both recruitment and retaining performance in the positions. One must also make sure that newly educated priests actually choose the Church as a job. Finally, I would like to give support to the head of the Church Council, who said earlier this year that we must share in spreading the good reputation of the Church and all the fine work that is being done in the churches. This is also important for recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7444	50 years ago, we had two universities in Norway. A short month ago, we got our seventh: the University of Agder. Fifty years ago, access to higher studies was very limited. The number of students was about that time. Nine hundred. Today there are almost 200,000 students. About 70 pst. of a year's coal has study competence, and most of them are in high school today. Thus, over the last few generations, there have been far more opportunities for more knowledge-seekers. Both for individuals and geographically, accessibility is better, but we still know that the social differences are not erased. We've come a long way, a long way, but we still have a job to do to make access to higher education real to everyone. A democratic knowledge policy means that more people are given the opportunity to master and develop their professional and human lives. At the same time, knowledge is the key to solving the major challenges facing mankind. For this reason, the availability of meaningful and useful knowledge benefits both the individual and society. This is a line that I want to continue. The educational explosion, which I have now described very briefly, has given society many challenges. In this country, we have taken some important steps in a spirit of good community. For example, universities and colleges are anchored in a common law and have a common council. It is a citizen of transparency and common understanding, while providing very important areas for exchange of experience. Following the introduction of the Quality Reform a few years ago, the institutions' own responsibilities have been strengthened, while improving the quality of the education situation for the students. Universities and colleges are responsible for the quality of research and education, the relevance of working and social life, good and well-established management and governance, and the good use of resources. Of course, these are demanding tasks, but I have great confidence that our educational institutions can do this. I am fully aware that the sector feels tight in the financial framework and that it feels very restrictive. However, I would like to remind you that the university and higher education sectors in this budget actually have a real growth of 2 p.m. and that the Government has chosen to give priority to initiatives that the sector itself has highlighted as important for future research and education. This applies, inter alia, to: the 350 new scholarship positions, scientific equipment and university museums. In the case of students, the main purpose of the Quality Reform was to provide better quality and more meaning to students in their learning environment. It looks like we've succeeded so far, even though I'll admit that we have some challenges with regard to the continuous time for research. But back to the students. Here the evaluations show that the learning environment has improved. It is also important for the students that material things are well arranged. The government has therefore significantly increased the allocation of student housing, which facilitates the commitment of approx. 670 new student housing next year, and the cost framework per year. housing has been increased by NOK 100000. We hope to be able to facilitate a better student life and a better student welfare. Today, there may be calls for action to address key climate challenges in relation to the key environmental challenges. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that research efforts and thus research capacity must also be increased. The government is therefore increasing the funding for research into the state budget by NOK 1.2 billion, to NOK 17.8 billion. This is a real growth of about 3 pst. We have some demanding goals for our research efforts, the goal is to follow up. But at the same time, it's important to make what we're actually doing visible, and the great efforts that our researchers and our research communities are contributing to. For example, let's measure. Our R & D effort per year We are third in the OECD area, and we have a lot of researchers per year. employed. But I still hope that, through major challenges facing society, we will be able to stimulate efforts on the research front, both in the field of State-initiated research, and in the field of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7471	In connection with St.prp. No 7, which we're going to deal with later today, the Department is proposing to transfer $9 million. kr next year to a company that has gone bankrupt, namely Norwegian Aviation College. The Committee has asked the Council of State a question about this, and we received a response from the Council of State that the Department would freeze the funds pending ESA treatment. But the answer also contained another, eye-catching information. Is it really the case that the Council of State considers that the decision on distortions of competition in relation to pilot training does not lead to the establishment of training for air traffic controllers, flight engineers, logistical staff, technical managers or other managers or training in other aviation subjects before the decision of the ESA on pilot training has been taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7481	We await the judgment that will be given from ESA before we decide on the future of these educations. We know that it's a pretty big impression, and that more people have come on the job in terms of such education. And we're very attentive to the challenges that lie here, and the opportunities that we also have to provide. But what the representative here is saying is quite right: we are awaiting the outcome of this judgment before we take the step of finally establishing a similar education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7488	Each year, NIFU STEP calculates the research effort in the State budgets. This year, NIFU STEP has calculated that we are missing approximately DKK 4 billion each year until 2010, if the cross-political objective of 3 pst has been adopted. GDP shall be achieved within that period. One of the reasons is that the government doesn't bet on research. In the 2008 budget, too, there has been strong criticism that almost all the growth that is coming is either tied up in projects already adopted or is price and wage compensation. It is precisely when gross domestic product is increasing that it is possible to invest in research. On several occasions, the right has asked questions both to the Tora Aasland Council and to the forerunner, Øystein Djupedal, on the cross-political objective of 3 pst. GDP is expected to be researched by 2010, stable or non-permanent. Every time we've got the answer that yes, it does. At the same time, however, we read interviews, at the latest now with the Minister of Research and Higher Education, where it appears that the goal is abandoned. May the Council confirm that the target of 3 pst. of GDP for research efforts by 2010 is constant?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7495	It is an advantage that the representative himself will hear what I am saying, and I will now answer. Of course, the target is firm. At the same time, we see that there are two sizes in this goal that we do not have complete control over. One is gross domestic product, which in many ways is dependent on, for example: the oil price. The second is the efforts of industry. We have a very big and demanding challenge in setting a target that is both government funding and business finance. But the goal is fixed, and I'm constantly working on getting it fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7502	The Council of State mentioned in its speech the joy of having a common law for universities and higher education institutions. Also, a common law for private and public schools and universities would have been an advantage. In today’s setting, we have a comitology note that ‘there are questions about the inclusion of cost category in the educational component of the higher education funding system’. In particular, some colleges have passed from fresh schools to colleges and have greater professional weight. The University of Staffeldtsgate will be such a school. An overall committee points out that the assignment of study services to the cost category must be assessed throughout the ministry. My question is whether the State Council will review the grant to the higher education institutions, among others. Staffeldtsgate, which in 2005 went from being a freshman to becoming a college with a greater professional weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7511	It's true, as the representative says, that we are making an ongoing assessment of the classification of all higher education institutions. Not necessarily especially for the college that was mentioned, but it's a work we do on a regular basis for all the colleges. We have a challenge constantly to be up-to-date on the criteria that apply at all times and are important challenges for individual colleges. But I can assure the representative that this is an assessment that we are doing all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7518	Governments just confirmed that research escalation to 3 pst. GDP remained stable. The Council of State said that it depends, among other things, on: by business. But there's one factor that doesn't depend on business, and that's the government's obligation to get to 1 pst. I'm just basing on the question that comes, that of course it stands firm. To get a research, it must be a strategic space for action. The strategic space of action in research is linked to three factors: 1. ensuring that there is good basic funding for universities and colleges, i.e. correcting the cut2. ensuring that the Fund’s returns are free and not tied to the EU Framework Programme3. that the Norwegian Research Council is not guided in detail, but that there is also a room for action in relation to the use of the crowns and economics My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State aware that these are measures that need to be put in place, in addition to having a friendly dialogue with the sector – that is, this strategic space of action that I was just asking for is necessary for the sector to look forward to?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7537	I don't think Dørum will disagree with me that it's important to have a dialogue with those players that are absolutely central, and that it's an objective to have a common understanding. I am willing to acknowledge that our research goal is demanding, and I also see the need to be more concrete in the individual steps of research than always to measure by one percent where some of the factors are literally moving and cannot be completely controlled. I want to notice the elements that the representative here is promoting. It's an important part of the overall assessment that we're always doing to achieve our important goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7546	I would essentially like to thank the Council of State for a good report, which shows how important it is to bet on education and research. I think it is good and positive that the Council of State agrees with the opposition that this must be seen as very demanding for higher education institutions that now have tight budgetary frameworks. Another objective the Council of State has said several times is demanding to achieve, is the research goal of that 3 pst. of gross domestic product is intended for research by 2010. Time is running out. In my post I mentioned that Rolf Requam in the previous period criticised the then government for a progress in relation to the research effort of approx. 0.2 pst. GDP. The reality now is that we've reduced research efforts to about a quarter. 1.5 pst. GDP. In the past, SV proposed a stepping-up plan. The opposition has presented a joint proposal for a stepping-up plan in this budget. My question is brief and correct: will the Council allow the Government parties here in Stortinget to support the proposal for a research escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7556	It is important to be specific about what you want to achieve with research efforts. I mentioned here that I have a plan for how to achieve the goal of stepping up research, combined with what is going to happen in other disciplines. However, I am not quite ready yet to take the step of being specific about the content of the escalation plan and the individual elements in it, so it is difficult for me to make any recommendation here today. But I can assure the representative that one way I'm going to make concrete research efforts is through a targeted research effort plan, where it's important that we research in relation to the commitments we have and in relation to the future challenges we have that require research.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7561	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7564	Administrations play an important role in stimulating research and innovation in industry and in the public sector. This government believes that the state should engage widely in industrial policy to contribute to innovation and a competitive business. Norwegian economy is going well; precisely then we have to facilitate future value creation. In the 2008 budget, therefore, the Government strengthens the commitment to research in the field of education. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's budget is increasing by a total of 13 p.m. in relation to the 2007 budget. Through the 2008 budget, the Government is stepping up its efforts in sectors where Norway is leading internationally, or is in a position to become so. I would like to highlight three priority areas in the field of nutrition research in 2008. Firstly, it is the maritime sector. The government launched its own maritime strategy in October. We are following that approach in the draft budget, and we are proposing to strengthen the maritime research and development effort of the Norwegian Research Council and Innovation Norway by 60 million. kr. The funds shall include, inter alia: go to the upgrade of the marine research institutes in Trondheim, so that we can still have an infrastructure in the maritime area that is world-class. Secondly, the Government wants a greater proportion of the natural gas extracted on a Norwegian base to be used domestically. The government is therefore proposing an increased investment in the Gassmaks programme to a total of 40 million. kr next year. The programme, which supports research into the industrial use of natural gas, will contribute to industrial development, increased value creation and new jobs. Thirdly, we are strengthening research efforts on marine bioprospection. This is an area with great potential for value creation. As part of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, the Government is strengthening its efforts by 7 million. kr over the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and SEK 5 million. on the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. I therefore do not agree with the opposition's criticism of the Government's research efforts. The government is increasing business-oriented research in areas with future value added potential, and we are maintaining our efforts to support the best research-based innovation projects in all parts of Norwegian business. The government's draft budget for 2008 represents a real growth of 3pst. for research and development. We are also continuing the TaxFUNN scheme, and we are increasing the capital of the Research Fund. Overall, the industry in Norway is researching little in comparison with other countries. This is partly due to the economic structure in Norway. Public funding for research in general and for research in industry has increased in particular in recent years, while research efforts in industry may seem flat. The government will therefore have a dialogue with business actors to get concrete proposals on how the public best can help trigger major research efforts in business. A short time ago, I joined and joined REC as the most innovative company of the year in 2007. REC has taken advantage of areas where Norway has advantages, experience and competences. Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Council have both contributed actively, among others. support for research projects for a longer period. And we know the result, REC is today one of the world's leading companies in solar technology. This is just one example of how, in interaction between governments, knowledge institutions and businesses, we can achieve conversion and innovation in Norway that gives us companies that are world leaders in their fields. Through the 2008 budget, the Government is stepping up or presupposes the economic research effort in areas where Norway is a leading international player. It's long-term work. But I believe that through this budget, we are taking important steps towards Norway becoming one of the leading innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world in those areas where we have a special advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7585	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7588	We just heard the Minister of Research say that it was demanding to achieve the goal of 3 pst. of GDP for research by 2010. The Minister of Economic Affairs addresses a number of specific areas of activity within his own department. That's good. But the reality is that the share of GDP now going to research is lower than when this government took over. One of the reasons is that business research is too little, and then we're in the middle of the main problem. The solution to this, as I could get out of the Council of State posts today, was that he was going to engage in dialogue with business to find concrete proposals. I wonder what has been done in the last two years to try to find concrete proposals that will help boost business research, when it has taken two years to engage in business dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7593	Firstly, it is true that measuring relative to gross domestic product is particularly difficult for a country with such a large share of gross domestic product based on oil prices. I think we can agree on that. At least I hope that a substantive, thorough discussion on the research ahead, to which the representative puts up, will have to be about something more than just – if I can say so – the question of 3 pst. GDP. It must be about research efforts in those areas where we are good and can succeed, and it must also be about the quality and content of research. The Minister for Research and Higher Education pointed out, for example: that, in relation to the number of inhabitants in Norway, we are at the top of the statistics. At least we have to be able to have more parameters than just gross domestic product. So the question is, what have I done? I think maritime strategy is a good example. The maritime strategy now presented and well received throughout the maritime cluster has been developed together with the maritime industry. This is a good example of us putting in research efforts in areas where industry itself is also putting in research efforts. I think that's a good way to do it. We've been doing that all along, it's not something we've started with right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7600	I'll keep doing the same thing a little bit. That's a measure of 1 pst. public effort and 2 pst. in the private sector, and it cannot be assumed that we are very far behind the target of the private sector. The Minister of Industry is in charge of all the most important instruments. I note that he is very dialogue-oriented today. It's very nice. We're researching to create growth. Since he will also engage in dialogue with the organisations, I would just recommend that you go back to the start, i.e. until 2005. In fact, there were instruments that started very strong growth, and one could point to growth over many years when it came to private research. Major research has shown that the user-driven applications have very good results to show during the previous period. My question is: Is the Council satisfied with the appropriations that go, among other things. to the BIA, which is well behind the target of 500 million. In 2009, and in practice, do not any new projects announced for the year we are now entering?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7609	I'm pleased with that question, because it's obvious that there's a misunderstanding when it's produced as if the appropriations for the BIA have been reduced. Those appropriations have been increased by 10 million. So some of the foreign investment is going to be carried out in a different way in the budget. It's a technical budget change. The reality is that the budget for BIA is increasing. The Research Council has launched new programmes. They've got a 50-million frame. kr for 2008. The deadline for applying was 28 November, so it is not correct that it is not being put into new programmes. Then I have to be allowed to comment on the constant claim that this government is stepping down research efforts in general and research in particular. This government has increased the total research effort from us by 24.4 p.m., and in the case of nutrition research, which is in the Ministry of Industry and Trade's budget, we have increased the research effort by 37.5 p.m. since we took over in 2005. I have to be allowed to say it that way: there is a broad consensus in the Storting that we need to strengthen real science competence. When the increases carried out by this government are produced as cut, there is evidence that real-time competence should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7618	In the case of the User-Controlled Innovation Arena and R & D contracts, it has been planned to step up to a level different from that currently existing. I have not realized that it has been cut, but I have not realized that it has been stepped up. The criticism made by the KUF Committee by the business community was that there is no pressure on the Government's willingness to use these options contained in the BIA and contained in the R & D contracts. It was the industry that expressed its view of the Committee, which said that there was a significant potential here. From the left side, we also see that the government in the middle of a race chooses to tighten up the tax FUNN scheme before it is fully evaluated, so I am unable to see in total the new grips that the Council of State said were willing to develop as a result of a dialogue. If it had been such a will, it would have strengthened the BIA and R & D contracts more than what has been done now. If it had also been such a will, at least they would not have tightened the tax FUNN scheme until it had been evaluated. It is the sum of these measures that do not work well, once one is concerned that we do not have enough nutrient-oriented research in Norway. I wish the Council of State's comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7627	I will take it in order and start with the SkattenFUNN scheme: an evaluation of the Statistical Central Bureau is now being carried out. It is submitted well on 15 January. In fact, we will have the opportunity to have a qualitative review of the results of the TaxFUNN scheme. I would rather be in the same direction as the representative, Mr Dørum, that the impression before one has received this thorough review is that we have achieved good results with the SkattenFUNN scheme. But now let's look at the analysis and discuss it on that basis. When it comes to BIA, I've already answered that question. It's a budgetary change that makes an amount appear smaller, but the real allocation to the BIA has increased. It will continue to be so that one could wish for more increase, not least for expert councils. It's known to the representative Dørum from a previous life. But this is an increase in something that we agree on is a good tool, a user-driven development capability in the field of research. So finally, about R & D, that's one of my favorites. I have been in state development contracts ever since I was the rapporteur back in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and I know that they work. [[The President clubs.]] There is one of the main keys to industrialising the research results. We agree on that. We're increasing it. I understand that someone will increase it more.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7636	The President reminds the speakers that there is limited speaking time in the change of line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7640	I am pleased that the Minister of Industry agrees that it seems that the SkattenFUNN scheme has produced good results. I'm a little worried that you tightened into last year and haven't fixed that tightening this year. So it's a system that was concrete and that was tailored for small and medium-sized enterprises that got increased research efforts, and now you're drawing the wrong direction in relation to what I thought both the Minister of Industry and the Government would really want. The reason I had to ask a new question was that the Council of State in its previous answer took up the 3pst target and sowed considerable doubts as to whether it is possible to achieve this 3pst. target by 2010, which is the internationally agreed target. Sweden and Finland are in the target area, Norway is many miles behind and has to make enormous efforts over the next two years to be close to achieving this. But then the Council of State says that he would rather look at other parameters when it comes to research, for example. share of research per year the population. Will the Council of State initiate the introduction of such new measurement parameters? And does the Council of State believe that the 3rd PST target should be dropped by 2010 and possibly set a new target line, either for percent or time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7649	No, what I said, and I want to repeat, is that we have to evaluate the quality of research in addition to just talking about 3 pst. GDP. The question of the GDP target is clear, and it has been answered by the Minister of Research and Higher Education. I have adhered to her answer. So I'm trying to raise a discussion: shouldn't we also discuss the content of the research, and shouldn't we discuss the share of the research in relation to the employment we have? The fact, for example: Norway has more enterprises with less than 10 employees than the European average, as the target number is affected, because it is not recorded in the statistics. Then we have to be able to raise our eyes outwards and in addition to the 3 pst. goal go in and have a qualitative review of what we're actually getting for the means we're using. I think it is absolutely necessary to get, despite all the limited human resources, if not financial resources, to provide the best possible results for research in the future. Therefore, we should be able to have more perspectives than the quantitative objective of measuring the research results.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7656	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7659	The rest cut, the famous rest cut, introduced by the Government for the 2007 budget year, is now having visible implications for universities and colleges in their budgets for the next year. So to take the University of Oslo, it's going to have to cut 205 million. kr in the next year's budget. 205 million. kr is a lot of money; it is the size of a common municipal budget in Norway. These cuts mostly affect students, among other things. by combining courses, by reducing guidance and by reducing seminar instruction, etc. This is contrary to the intentions of the Quality Reform, where one of the main objectives was the closer follow-up of the students. The claim of the Progress Party is that the Government is in the process of destroying the Quality Reform for Higher Education by tightening up the appropriations. It is not possible to carry out a major reform by granting less money for that purpose. Everyone understands this, just not the Government. Recently, a big message came about the status of the Quality Reform, and we were all excited about it. This could not say with clarity whether the quality of higher education had changed. But now, when universities and colleges have to do big cuts in their budgets for next year, we fear that quality will go down. One thing, however, is that the report on quality reform clearly says, and it is that the professionals have had less time for research, and that in itself is very serious. If there is an important competitive advantage for Norway in the future, it is precisely that we are very good at research. This is the cross-political agreement, because everyone is behind that we're going to achieve the goal of 3 pst. of GDP for research by 2010. It is therefore alarming that the Minister of Research is now saying that this objective is totally unrealistic. What does the Council of State think she can do to speed up the research, and when does she think it is realistic to reach the 3pst goal? Research appropriations are in no way in line with the ambitions that Norway should be a leading knowledge nation. Furthermore, it is very problematic that the Research Fund is no longer used as a strategic funding mechanism for Norwegian research, but that most of the growth is used for the increased quota in the EU Framework Programme for Research. To quote Egil Kallerud, researcher at NIFU STEP: «The Fund is becoming increasingly an ordinary grant item in the State budget.» Research Norway is in urgent need of increased appropriations. Professional stagnation, lack of recruitment and old-fashioned equipment are only a few areas that have come into being. To be attractive to the knowledge industry, we must have world-class professionals, sufficient with highly educated realists and top modern scientific equipment for our researchers. Without a significant increase in knowledge investment, Norway will be in a situation where we cannot offer our businesses the skills they need in the future. The Progress Party also believes that increased investment in an open competitive field in industrial research will trigger ambitious, user-driven projects with high value creation potential, which Norway will have to take part to a much greater extent than before. The review shows that we have significantly lower basic funding than our European competitors. It turns out that the European Institutes are about 40 pst. in basic financing, while the Norwegian technical and industrial institutes here are at home of only 12 pst. i average. Much of the Norwegian institutes are required if they are to be able to recover substantially more EU funds in the future when the framework becomes so different. Another important area to consider is in fact the domestic market where public procurement took place in 2005 for 280 billion, without a strategy for public enterprises to demand products and services that include innovation and that may benefit in addition to individual deliveries. The Progress Party therefore calls on the Council of State to consider how to establish strong public procurement-related financing mechanisms, where investment, research and development requirements can then be imposed in the case of larger public acquisitions. Then I have to say the following: this government speaks with a loud voice in the public debate on environmental problems, poverty reduction and other global challenges. Yes, but clean water, oil spills, new vaccines, biomembrane, etc., it is precisely in these areas that the problems of increased focus on research and development can be solved. Then it's nice that we don't get it done. The government can bet on this now, if they want to, but they don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7681	There is a great deal of progress in higher education and research in Norway, although the opposition unisontly expresses something else in the debate today. In particular, it is gratifying that our colleges are following up the challenges they faced through the NOCUT evaluation of nurse and general teacher training. In the case of nursing education, I expect that they will reach their goal of 20 p.m. the initial competence of the training courses and the recognition of their professional plans under assessment this year. There is an important step on the path to development of competences in the care sector, a sector that cannot meet the challenges of the future without a significant effort for the development of specific competences. The sector has had too little available research competence to carry out patient/user research and development, which is central to the development of new knowledge and insight. In the recent agreement on the elderly in the United Kingdom, the development of teaching units in home-based care has been proposed, as has also been the case with teaching homes in municipalities in the past. This requires additional contributions from higher education in health and care in the field of research. Therefore, it is important that we clearly and clearly indicate the importance of research competence in our higher education institutions, not only in order to provide research-based education, but also in order to contribute to the development of well-being across the country. Teacher training also addresses the challenges they faced in the evaluation of NOKUT. It is exciting to follow the trials started at the University of Westfold with the testing of a four-year education for high school teachers and at the Telemark College, where one has been given the means to strengthen the link between education and practice. But also more people now come up with ideas about how to get a better teacher training in the future, where we train teachers for the schools they are going to teach, and the subjects they are going to teach. It is therefore gratifying that both Councils clearly signal the importance of continuing to work on the quality and content of teacher training. We all know how important this education is for us to achieve our goals of a better school for everyone. And there are some challenges. There is no doubt that the red-green government is betting on higher education and research. There is a real growth in the sector until next year – not least the allocation of 350 new scholarships will help strengthen research. We also strengthen individual actions that will contribute to new knowledge in key areas — for example: by the fact that in Stortinget we strengthen the Art Database by 7 million. kr. The Species Database provides us with an electronic overview of information on biological species in Norway for use in environmental management, education and research. With the distribution of the Nobel Peace Prize fresh in memory and with the ongoing Bali summit as a background, the environmental issue is more topical than ever. The species database will ensure good and up-to-date information on biodiversity, which is an important factor in our environmental research. I would also like to point out that one of our centres for excellent research at NTNU has become a Kavli Institute of Neuroscience. The government's gone in with $2.29 million. kr, so that one has secured the financing of the institution. It will be interesting to follow that research environment in the future. They are researching in a narrow field, but provide important knowledge on e.g.: our memory, which is important for the research on dementia, a suffering that makes life difficult for very many people today. I could mention several very exciting environments that I have visited this year. Birkeland at UiO, University of Environment and Biotechnology at Ås and Veterinary College are other environments that have shown excellent qualities. As a committee, we have visited the dental study at the University of Tromsø, which is strengthened through next year's budget. At all, it's a lot to enjoy. Then I have also registered for them the reference of the university and higher education sectors to the problems that have been cut in the basic allocation for them in terms of both research and education. I don't think we should minimize it, and I will follow developments in the sector carefully in the time to come. In particular, it is important that the sector has opportunities to follow up the new grant holders and that students are not hit by cutbacks in the sector. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Council of State is sticking to the research objective. She says it's demanding, with a GDP that's grown so heavily in recent years. But she sticks to the goal, and that's right. For my part, I think the debate on research is getting too clever if it's just about money and about percentages of GDP. We must constantly be concerned about whether we have a higher education and a research that enables us to solve the challenges we have in society. Then we have to have quality in what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7698	The attention given to school outcomes has been significant in recent years. International tests and national tests do not give the desired results. Although there are a lot of schools that do well, there's a lot of work to do. Especially in basic skills, such as reading, too many people are struggling. Knowing how important this is in order to cope with an increasingly modern and complex society and working life, there is reason for further attention and effort. It must be a goal for all of us that no one should leave primary school without having acquired basic skills. It must be combined with opportunities for developing the learning potential of each individual student. We are both humble and offensive in relation to the basic challenges. Of course, we're going to be willing to turn most of the stones to get better school results. For this reason, the Red-Green Government has also made a number of efforts that should be able to provide the basis for higher quality in initial training. Keywords in this context are major transfers to municipalities, several hours in the basic subjects and more focus on early interventions. In the future, we will focus on further increases in hours, reviews of teacher training, etc., etc. But perhaps even more so, we also need to look at the teacher's density and the role and responsibility of the school manager for the quality of primary education. Fortunately, we now see figures that could indicate that there is some more resources being used in school, but in very close proximity to all municipalities, it seems that the priority school would be high enough. We believe that high teacher density is necessary for teachers to have enough time to follow up on each individual student. Close follow-up and early response to each and every one of them are thought to be the necessary means of improving quality and performance in schools. In our opinion, there has also been too little focus on the school owner’s responsibility for quality in initial training. For safety reasons, let it be said immediately that this is no attempt at discharge from liability on our part. But much may indicate that where one has active and conscious school owners, better results are achieved. Many school owners are too passive. Schools and teachers are often left to themselves. I think a lot of teachers could want more help from the political and administrative management of many municipalities. We need a greater local commitment to quality in school, and not only from parents, students and teachers, but also from political and administrative teams. We therefore challenge all local authorities to discuss quality and content in schools on a regular basis. We challenge all municipalities to go through their school follow-up systems and look at it for example. is of sufficient competence to do this job. We challenge schools to further develop school-parent/home cooperation. It is important that the results of international tests and national tests lead all actors to fold up their sleeves and demonstrate their willingness to give priority to the school. It is fully possible to improve the quality of initial training. Lack of basic skills is also a major challenge for the adult population. As many as 400,000 adults lack basic skills. Hopefully, through early efforts, we can avoid further recruitment of adults without basic basic skills, but we have a responsibility for those adults who do not have the necessary skills today. I am therefore pleased that the government is increasing the stakes in this field, among other things. through increased support to the study federations and to basic labour skills. We know that there's a lot of good going on in this field locally, but I think we might wish that the funds that are being allocated lead to even more adults getting help to acquire basic skills. Of course, we'll follow that closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7711	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7714	This year's budget is a good budget for the students. This government has a clear commitment to building more student homes. We increase the grant rate for housing units by NOK 100 000, and we adjust all the rates of support in the education aid schemes. We did so in the current year's budget, and we are adopting that today for next year's budget. It is alarming that the Right alone proposes to allocate the commitments for the construction of new student housing from 2008 to 2012 only to projects in the press areas. I'm afraid after the four years we'll have a huge need to build homes in the undefined press areas, and that we'll get a round dance it's hard to get out of. In previous commitments, the government has committed itself to building student housing throughout the country, and not just in the defined press areas. It is gratifying that the Government proposes to give retroactive effect to the Student Housing Framework. This gives more interconnections the ability to build, and they will be able to realize several pending construction projects. According to the Husbanken, there are 400 unrealised commitments between 1996 and 2005. In large cities, students lose bidding rounds on monthly rentals as the current rental market works, and many have difficulty finding a place to live. There is no doubt that several student homes will cool down the private rental market. In the press release from NSU on this matter, the manager, Per Anders Torvik Langerød, said: ‘This Government is ready to allow the construction of most student dwellings at any time.’ More and more young people choose to move to study. Most people want to experience something new, like in a bigger city. It's become the status of university, and it's the status professions that apply. Unfortunately, this goes at the expense of, among others, the profession of teacher, pre-school teacher and nurse. Also the small colleges in the districts suffer when everyone wants to go to a big city. We have great challenges in getting the colleges lifted and making it attractive to take a professional training course in a smaller place. Increased research efforts at higher education will both increase the level of competence and make it more attractive to choose higher education. And it's easier to get a student cab – it'll also be a moment. When we discussed the Student Cooperation Act here in the Chamber a few weeks ago, the representative Dørum said that the matter was one of the few where the Government listened to the students. Before this debate, I went into the website of the National Association of Students, and there were five headlines with boasts to the Government and the bulk of the population. There's no doubt that we have a long way to go before we can say 100 pst. Satisfied. We have a long way before we can realize the full-time student and before we have enough homes for everyone who needs it. But we're on the right track, and there's no doubt that this government is prioritizing the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7734	In the meantime, when searching the websites of different organisations, it may also be a good idea to look at all the statements that have come up with criticism of the Government. It has been particularly about the large and dramatic cut in the basic funding of universities and colleges. I would first like to make a comment on what Mr Ljunggren said about student housing, because this is a good opportunity to justify our proposal in addition to what Mr Ljunggren himself did. She drew out some important moments. One is that many students attract the big cities. That's what the trend has been for a while, and it's probably still going to be. Another factor is that there are a lot of international students coming to Norway. It's a crazy development, and that's good, but they also very often choose to come to the major places of study. And it's just at the big studios that the private housing market is the most heated, and that's where it's most difficult for students to get a home for a reasonable money and with good standards. Therefore, it is important that we put additional forces in the press areas defined, so that student housing can increase most there. There has been a lot during this debate that it may be tempting to comment. I especially want to mention two things. One is that the representative Anniken Huitfeldt told me early in his introduction that the opposition parties' efforts to restore the cut in the basic allocation were actually a little puzzled, because it doesn't cover the cuts that universities have to take. Then it's really pretty funny that not the government's sail adds up to bringing back more than 20 little millions of a cut of 275 million. kr. The 20 million. So kr represents one third of the cut-off University of Oslo alone in the 2007 budget. When we see the big cuts that now come to the institutions, it's in the background of a very important thing, that they prided themselves on what the government said last year – that this was a rest cut – and they planned on it. Therefore, they have to take a double-size cut in 2008 as they would have done if they had distributed it beyond. So the only reason for this is because they prided themselves on the promises of the government. They obviously shouldn't have. The other is for the Minister of Industry. We had a small debate here instead on the objective of GDP, quality, small businesses, the content of research, etc. The point is that two and a half years ago, the Storting discussed it. We discussed the content of research, we discussed quality, we set goals together, and we developed a common strategy that everyone agreed on. But it's very clear that when the government no longer wants to bet on research, the easiest way to do it is to try to talk about things other than what's real. All the parties in Stortinget have agreed on the size of the target, the areas to be given priority, and how to bet. Then it is very strange that the government, as a defense of its lack of research effort, believes that we should start discussing this again. We have adopted that, and it remains until a new research report is available, and I am aware that there are no plans for a new research report with the very first.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7745	It was Huitfeldt's contribution that made me take the floor. She had a longer investigation into the development of the local economy, where she, among other things, the municipality scheme for 2005 meant a reduction. This must be based on a manifest misunderstanding, because the growth in the free income of the municipal sector in 2005 was 2.3 pst., which was in fact only shut down the growth of the previous year, which was 3.3 pst. Before that, a return to 1997 is needed to find such a positive development in the local economy. There is a clear contrast to the municipal structure that is now being implemented in 2007, where one has a reduction in the free revenues of municipalities of 0.1 p.p., and not least the municipality structure for 2008, which reduces the free revenues of municipalities of 0.4 p.p. The reality outside this hall really speaks very clearly to itself. As sector manager Hilde Reitan of Wågå says to yesterday's Municipal Report: This is the most difficult budget in six years. KS says the exact same thing. The budget for the municipality sector for 2008 is more stringent than the budgets of Erna Solberg. It is quite right that the years 2001 and 2002 were tough years for the municipal sector. But it was tough years for everyone. It was tough years for the state, it was tough years for the companies, and it was not least tough years for the individual of us, precisely because the country was driven into an economic ruin by the previous Stoltenberg government. That fixed the Bondevik II government. In a year when the government has an extra NOK 130 billion at its disposal, it's amazing that a man is able to provide a municipal scheme where one reduces the free income of the municipality. That's now one thing. But the worst thing is that the state councils, and not least the state council that is present now, Trond Giske, are experts in transferring all responsibility to the municipal sector for those areas where they themselves are not able to meet their own electoral commitments. We have not least seen that in a line change today. Only in the last few months have different national governments raised the level of local government: increases in libraries, increases in culture, increases in voluntary work, increases in church buildings, increases in schools, increases in the health and care sector, in the drug and rehabilitation sectors, and in a situation where they reduce the free income of municipalities. It creates a crisis of expectation in Kommune-Norge, and the only thing that shines in Kommune-Norge today – and in local politicians – is light-cut from the torches in protest against the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7756	It is quite unlikely that the previous article will come from a game of 250 million. kr from the county councils as they are. need to carry out further training. «Clemets detachment to students,» we read in Universitas in November 2005. There is a description of how the Bondevik II administration went off at the same time as it proposed to cut the welfare support for the Student Cooperation in Oslo by 5 million. kr. One indicates that Kristin Clamet carried out many student cuts during the four years she was the Council of State: scholarships and support for housing for students, health services and kindergartens were significantly reduced. All the important old cuts were passed on also in the cut-off budget. I registered that the committee leader read out the press releases that she wanted to read. I have here a lesson with press releases – copied in a double-page paper – that was sent from the student organisations in the previous period, where they went against the default government's student welfare policy. They cut $180 million. In the study funding, they cut down 4,000 places of study, they had to adjust the cost of the study grant, so that the students became poorer every year that went, they built half as many student housing as we can build, they cut the main disbursement, the research fund was half, and the increase in the number of grant options was half that compared to what is the situation with us in the government. I thought the opposition was running a black measurement of the situation around today. The representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen had a good post where she pointed to all the good things that are happening. If it is that everything is so black today, I wonder how black it was in the previous period with Kristin Clemet as the Council of State. When we can figure out 20 million. kr in Stortinget, we have never argued that it is a reversal of the cut that was made in the current year's budget. We've never argued that it's a reversal. But we argue that it is an important aid to follow up the scholarship positions proposed by the Government and endorsed today. Two years out in the period, we don't intend to borrow ourselves satisfied back and be happy with everything as it is. But we have reason to be pleased that we have got a lot – in student welfare, in kindergarten, in scholarships and in several hours. The research fund is doubling, and the growth training is jamming in a completely different situation below us than it was in the previous period. We have two years left, and we have a terrible amount of work to do over the last two years. This is a very good budget. When it's agreed today, we're impatient to start working on the issues that we're going to do in the next two. There are many unsolved tasks, and we are delighted to take on board – together with this important sector – to solve those tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7774	It was a post from the State Council for Higher Education and Research that made me take a three-minute post. This was the answer to our representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, where the question concerned education in aviation. I think the answer given by the Council of State is not really in touch. It is such that aeronautical education has absolutely nothing to do with pilot training. Air traffic controllers are actually those who sit in the towers, in tunnels or underground; they have nothing to do with the usual regular pilot training. I then wonder why the Council of State will stop this aeronautical training pending a decision by ESA on pilot training. That's weird for me. This means that one stops development, one stops new trade unions and new education pending another education. I don't understand, and I hope the Council of State will take the floor and clarify, and explain how to reach that conclusion. We also know that aviation is something that is going on today. That's everything from the training of flight mechanics and logistics engineers to Avinor's air traffic controllers, etc. It has nothing to do with pilot training. If you stop what is now under construction at the University of Agder, you have another, possibly, who will rap this from Norway. We'll be losers, Avinor will be losers. I refer to the look that actually appeared on the NRK's website today, that we have problems getting enough air traffic controllers, and then one is not interested in such an education starting at a university. I wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7786	The President will clarify when the representative Schmidt says that the answer ‘do not go hand in hand’ is an inappropriate form of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7789	There's been a debate here about who gets the biggest or least tribute from students. It may well be over time that the shelf is changed by the name of the regimes. Student politicians have the ability that they tend to say from. At least right now, it is quite clear that student politicians are reacting sharply to the cut that has taken place in the basic allocation of universities and colleges – there can be no doubt about that. When you go to an all-round medical meeting, which I've been at, you have the choice of cutting off a brilliant education that started before the Knowledge promise in 1996-1997, and cutting off basic research, which affects the next round of education, it's not a theoretical exercise, it's the way it's going on. I don't think anyone can defend it. Then the state council sometimes almost insisted that I should take some deep dives in the closer story. I'm happy to do that. I remember the last government council Giske was responsible for higher education. It was a government budget that got many thousands of students out on Karl Johan with posters of the type: «Ap-makt is a lack of knowledge!» It is of course that I acknowledge all my deeds, both when it was domestic in the country, and when it was not domestic. The representative Bent Höie has commented on the local economy in an honest and transparent way. And I'd like to draw a line from the current Council of State Giske's to the former Council of State Giske's treatment of universities. The budget for 2001 was not a good experience. Fortunately, this was corrected in Stortinget, because the minority government of the Workers' Party had to negotiate with an opposition, and then universities and higher education were strengthened. Now we have a majority government, and no one can strengthen this. Now you just use the power to run forward according to the behavior that I learned in Giske's hometown, where I grew up, and that sounds like: Look at you, Doorum, we have the power! That was the basic tone of the Trondheim social democrats. It's a grip that's translated into popular Norwegian: when we have power, we use power – and that's what it's supposed to be. We must find ourselves in opposition, in the sense that the power is then completely direct, but we must be able to talk freely in a free country, from a free pulpit, about the effects. At the end of the word change, there is something I would like to say that I had hoped to include in my main post, but was not able to do. It is a wonder I have in connection with the budgetary procedure with regard to the institute sector, the free institutions where research takes place. I have basically in connection with a proposal that the Left has been on, a question to the Council of State, to our Minister of Research, about how she now looks at the basic funding of the institute sector, and what she thinks about this. A little depending on that answer, I will consider how to deal with the proposal that has been put forward today – I think it is a proposal No. 16 – on basic funding for the institution sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7800	I thought it was a bit festive when the representative Anna Ljunggren with great patos from this pulpit stated: «The budget of the year is a good budget for the students.» It is strange that the students do not agree, and I refer to the same thing as I pointed out in my main post, Universitas from November 21, which announces new cut: «There can no longer be cut off from students», says the head of Student Parliament, Heine Skipenes. But the Soria Moria statement has well said that this should be a good budget for higher education and students, and then that's the truth, even if the facts were to say something else. What really made me take the floor was Solhjell's claim to the opposition for further assembly. Some of us recall the level of assembly among the current government parties two years before they went to negotiations. On the one hand, the Council of State says that he expects you to agree significantly more than what you are today – which is much more agreeable than what his own party was with the Workers' Party at the same time, otherwise. On the other hand, he prescribes, in a relatively instructive way, how to go to elections on your own programme, then to negotiations, and then to a government statement that is then followed. That's probably the process for most parties, I should think, so I really don't understand either the criticism or the expectation that the level of assembly will be even greater. Because in the direction choices, the opposition in this field is very much in agreement. It looks very clear to the council if he takes the trouble to read the settings carefully. Then I would like to thank the representative Opheim for at least informing him, as I perceived, that the government parties support the proposal of the Progress Party on the training of chiropractors. It is only the proposal that will safeguard the intention expressed by the representative, Mr Opheim. I am very pleased that the government parties, after the cancellation, have come to the realization that they want to establish a chiropractor training, and will probably then support the Progress Party's proposal on this later today. Then, unfortunately, I have to go a little bit inside the Council of State. He said that $50,000 in average cut to the councils is almost nothing. I'm worried that the Council of Churches doesn't know how much wonderful congregation work the local communities can do for that sum. In reality, the State Council stands in favour of this pulpit and repeatedly uses the 21 billion DKK that the Government claims to have transferred to the strengthening of the municipal sector, for exactly the same and to varying extents of purpose. It does not contribute to increasing church activity. It's not the reality out there in the churches, unfortunately. I hope the Council of Churches will take a closer look at how to help strengthen local church democracy, not spend the same money spent on care for the elderly, school and everything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7813	I want to make some comments. Åsa Elvik illustrated the problems of the local economy in referring to underfunded free learning material reform, and that we give priority to spending the money on a needs-tested grant scheme until full funding is available. She did not point out that that is the reason for the cut in the Right Budget for the county municipalities. So a little bit to State Councillor Andersen, who made a serious statement about real-time competence. As I know, the small increase that has come to the BIA has come because the Research Council has had to intervene to find some means, so that it has at all grown. After the lecture of State Councillor Andersen, I really suspect him not to know the consequences of his own budget. You're just halfway to it as a goal, 500 million. DKK into the BIA in 2009. So a little bit of openness in school, as Huitfeldt's representative replied in a line. I almost got the impression that everyone should have information, just not the media. Then I wonder, since we're approaching Christmas times, if we also believe in Christmas. There's no doubt that this is going to come out in the media. Then it should be a responsibility to get it out into the media in such a way that it actually contributes to an analysis of the school. It is obvious that national samples are primarily used to analyse the school in-house. We can't avoid, because school is so interesting to society around, that you're going to put a lot of emphasis on getting them out in the media. Then I think you should get it out in a real way. A small comment to the representative Dørum. I think he has invented a very good concept. It is to protect the ‘unborn business’. It almost sounds like an article in the abortion debate, but it probably isn't. That's actually a pretty good expression. It's where the future welfare lies. The transition in today's business is enormous, and it's going to be even bigger. Many of the lighthouses we know today are past tomorrow. Many of the lighthouses in the future we simply don't know today. We also don't know who's going to bring them up. That's exactly why research is so important, that's exactly why we use research, and that's exactly why the 3 pst. goal is so important to stick to. It actually shows to what extent you give priority to finding the new lighthouses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7826	I'm glad the government has done some national tests that can be used as a tool in school. The national tests are designed to support learning in school work. They are a tool for each school, a tool for municipalities to get started and work on quality development in school, and through the system that the Government has put in place for national tests, they do not become a first-page tool in the media on which teachers work well and which teachers do not work well. It's not a good way to raise the quality of Norwegian school. The reason I took the floor today is that the opposition parties Right and the Progress Party have made repeated claims that the education policy that is being pursued is not an SV policy. It's radically wrong. There has been a radical change in education policy since SV came into government with the Workers' Party and the Center Party and took over the Ministry of Knowledge. Among other things, we have focus on decentralised education and increased budgets for higher education and universities. In this year's budget, we also provide support to the Study Centre.no, because we know that it is important to invest in decentralised education. We have stopped the privatisation of the public high school, to which the former government has provided. We're increasing from the autumn of the 1st to the 4th. class step. These are also priorities that SV has in its work programme. Art and culture are important. In the Grand Duchy today, we agree that the Norwegian School of Culture Council will receive an increase, so that they can develop more good projects in the local arts and culture school. Ensuring training in drug institutions is important for SV. In this budget, we're adding an increase of 4 million. to drug services to ensure that those who are not entitled to education can obtain it. The government will also present a bill on this in a short time. Training in criminal services has been an important area for SV, which is also important in our work programme. This government has done the opposite of what the previous government did. We have strengthened the training in the field of criminal law, and we now ensure that everyone in the field of criminal law can be entitled to education. This is important. We're on the right track. We're on our way. But as Åsa Elvik said earlier, we're not satisfied, but we're on a good trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7837	With regard to the publication of the results of national tests and other types of studies, it is clear that the right only listens to the OECD when the OECD recommendations are consistent with the Right Programme. When the OECD makes very clear requests about how to publish the national samples, they do not listen. We believe that we have found a very good balance. We want transparency in local government if it doesn't go beyond privacy, but operating with a common launch day that increases the pressure, and creating lists where someone gets on the bench and someone gets on top, we don't mean, like advice from the OECD, that does not lead to improvement, but on the contrary, as the OECD says, that you are at risk of poor schools becoming even weaker. We should then be absolutely listening to these technical advice. We should also look at what has happened in the municipal economy, because it has had a significant impact on development in Norwegian school. In that year, the Right says that they received an improvement in the municipal economy – in 2004 – Stortinget granted SEK 3.8 billion in free income to the municipalities. The following year, the Right proposed an increase of DKK 1 billion, along with the Left and Christian People's Party. The following year, when we came to power, we got an increase in the municipal economy of NOK 5.7 billion – an increase in free income. So it's quite obvious that there's been a huge and formidable increase in the free income of municipalities after we took over. We have also been confirmed that with the opposition's proposals for funding for the university and higher education sectors, we would also have a cut, especially at the University of Oslo. So it's not enough to meet the challenges some colleges and universities face. What is also symptomatic of the areas where the opposition is winning with common positions in this Chamber is that they agree on the criticism, agreeing on all that is bad, but they are unable to chisel out any common policy option. And that's what's interesting -- what's the alternative to the sitting government. Let me give you an example: the right and left criticise us for introducing the system of fruit and vegetables in school, but only the right will remove the scheme. There is a great deal of criticism that the interest-rate compensation scheme is not being continued, but that no overall alternative can be launched. That's what's typical of this opposition -- they agree on blackning the situation, in a situation where we've never spent more money on research, in a situation where we've never spent more money on education. They agree on black paint, but do not agree on any alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7850	My clear impression is that the discussion about the Bondevik II government is actually over for the vast majority of people in Norway. But in a little bit of a corner of the Right raised group, we can still open up a discussion about what the government of Bondevik II actually did. What really happened? Yes, the previous government lost in the 2005 election and went back to collecting the set with over 10 pst., but was almost afraid of a good choice for the Progress Party. The main reason they lost in the middle of an upturn was that they massively prioritised taxlets to the richest in Norway and did not prioritise the nuclear welfare tasks in Norway – health, care, school and other things – that people are busy around in the communities. You can also read that out of the results. The learning density in Norway fell during the previous period and has now turned to a cautious rise. I'm concerned that we don't see a better development when it comes to prioritizing school resources around, and should wish me a stronger prioritisation of it in the future, not least in the light of what we now see in international studies. What also characterizes what the Right has stood for for several years in the case of school is a very clear view that there is no connection between using resources and getting better quality. That's very interesting. I know some right-wing people myself, and my clear impression is that in everyday life they are very busy with that context. If I, for example, want some people in a company at home, I'm fine with a little cheap wooden box with red wine, but many of the right friends I have say – and I mean to the extent that they are right – that if you really want to eat well, buy a little expensive bottle of wine, because quality costs. But it certainly does not apply to school – what is most important for how we get it in the future. At the same time, it's like the Right's own proposal on how to improve school, actually has a price tag, they too. We have to get away from the thinking that the previous government had, that a non-priority municipality and county municipality that spends money at school, but tax havens to the richest, and create its ideology that it's kind of free to get better quality. That's wrong. And then I'm going to say that it's clear that we have major challenges in the future when it's a debt to get an increase in school spending, also financially. We're going to take care of that. The large growth in the local economy has led to an improvement, but we need an additional investment in knowledge schools for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7867	It was the representative Bent Höie who made me draw again, because he says that the government does not take responsibility – or maybe it was the Minister of Culture who did not – for what we are responsible for. Well, there's no difference in the distribution of responsibilities between the state and the municipality. We're responsible for the performances. We have more priests in the Norwegian Church now than ever before. The difference is that we make sure that the municipalities actually have the finances to take the responsibility they have. That's the core difference. And we have a cut in the grant to the councils of 24 million. kr. So of 22 billion dollars, 21 976,000,000 dollars is left. It is used, inter alia: to health. We're on track with care workers. And it's used for school. There are completely different states in school today than it was during the Bondevik government. It's used for culture. The municipalities spend more on culture than ever before, even though we have a historical boost of over billion dollars to the state as well. That's the significant difference. That's directly wrong what's being said. We don't reduce the free income of municipalities, they're increasing. However, municipalities have been allowed to retain additional tax revenue in the past. We could of course drag it in, as it was systematically done during the Bondevik administration. But we have the best local economy ever. That's where the difference lies. Doors are critical that we go back in history, and we answer by going back to the 1960s, I think it was. It was about when I was born, that Dørum was back and dug in his deep dive. But you have to think about being measured by what you're actually doing. I remember well the debates with Dørum on education policy in the 2001 election campaign, where, as the Council of State, I presented the biggest increase in the research budget, DKK 1.3 billion. There wasn't one budget under Dørum that answered that. On the contrary, the growth was halved the first year after Dørum entered the government. A growth in the study grant of NOK 10 000 in one year was attempted to be removed after Dørum entered the government. And then you'd think you'd come out of government a little bit more humble and say, well, well, it wasn't that easy. But, no, then there are brand new, fresh Duracell batteries in place and the same homework! That's what I think makes politicians disdain, that what you're saying is completely contrary to what you're actually doing. In the previous period, the Left voted against the Cultural Promise. In the opposition, it is thought that things are not going fast enough. It is the kind of inconsistency between action and words that causes people to lose respect for one of the most important roles in Norway, namely being a politician.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7878	‘We must act, now!’ was Al Gore’s intrusive prayer when he received the Nobel Peace Prize on 10 December together with the United Nations Climate Panel. For now, it is serious about the environment, and a rich country that Norway has a great responsibility to show the way. The clone is a community of fate where all countries must take their share of the responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and where countries with prerequisites must be committed to developing new technologies in the service of the environment. With its polar regions, Norway has a special responsibility to contribute to new research on climate. Now we also know that global warming, paradoxically, can mean a colder climate in Norway, if the Gulf Stream changes course as a result of temperature changes in the sea. The government has designated the northern areas as the Government's strategic area of interest, and the Prime Minister correctly struck the big bang when he presented the strategy in Tromsø on 1 December 2006. Today, the government’s piggyback is adorable, but the North Region bet goes on for a couple of years in a row. The government says one will bet in a generation perspective, but to re-use Al Gore's word: the future is knocking on the door now. The problem is that young people now leave North Norway in flocks, and it is now that climate problems are booming worldwide and calling for increased efforts. The government’s response to bet in a generation perspective is therefore completely inadequate. That is why the Right in its alternative budget proposes 65 million new to, among other things. education and research in the north, focusing on climate and environmental issues. Right rates where the Government fails its own ambitions. Because you have to look well to find traces of some bets on education and research in the north. The reality is rather the opposite, that the bet has become a painful cut. Universities and colleges in North Norway have been cut for 35 million. kr. The research effort is also not in the vicinity of tangentizing the expectations created by the Government itself. We are experiencing the worst miscarriages of the times in the absence of research efforts. The government itself has described knowledge as the hub itself and the driving force of the Northern Region Strategy. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre recently got a question here in Stortingen about where it had been of this hub, and if not this wheel without a hub was a rather difficult means of getting used to. He pointed out that this question had to be answered by the specialist council. I am now addressing the question to the Minister of Research: Where has the knowledge-based hub become? And how does the rhyme cut in the north with the government betting in the north? In conclusion, few cases have received greater attention than the NAC case and the plans for training a traffic pilot at Bardufoss in cooperation with the University of Tromsø. I look at my great amazement now that the government parties are quietly trying to drain the NAC account for millions. Then my question to the representative Lena Jensen from Troms is why it is happening, and how she can explain that the University of Tromsø will not receive in 2008 start-up funding for what would become public flight training, as government parties promised that they would fix only the won elections in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7899	I have been challenged by a few of the representatives. I would like to say to the representative Åse Schmidt this: this is a budget debate, and it may have been that the cost element became a little clear in my reply in line box instead. So far, that's a little bit of an answer to what Elisabeth Aspaker was raising right now. What we're doing is we're waiting for the ESA judgment before we decide on a more permanent use of the funds that so far have been used in traffic pilot training at Norwegian Aviation College. However, this does not, of course, prevent parallel efforts to find a solution to other aviation training in areas other than traffic pilot training, for example: what's now happening at the University of Agder, which is a very exciting recording. So we're waiting for the verdict before we make a decision on more permanent use of the funds. At the same time, we are working on the range of services offered in other parts of aeronautical training. So to the representative of Dørum in terms of institution financing. It's been a long and circumstantial process. I came in as a government council a relatively short time ago and noticed the process and what had emerged both in the first and second part of this process. I would like to say to the representative that the main elements of the financial instrument are there, but I see the need for an additional quality assurance of some of the elements that this funding system consists of, precisely to ensure that all important considerations have been adequately assessed. I would say in this way that the additional quality assurance that I will do should not prevent the announced progress, namely that this could apply from 2009 onwards and be presented in the context of the 2009 budget. It will be a progress as expected and as announced, but as I said, I see a need for quality assurance of what is contained in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7909	At the end of the debate, let me point to a common challenge that we have in relation to business and the business-oriented part of the education system and research, namely globalisation. I have been so lucky over the last year to visit both China, India and South Korea and see large economies – with billions of inhabitants – that are growing rapidly, and a challenge for many existing production environments in the world, including Norwegian. But at the same time, economic growth in large countries also opens up new opportunities, because there are markets that are becoming more affordable and that like to buy highly advanced products, for example. from Norway. And it turns out that we're doing well in that competition, we're doing well in the business world in Norway. Some of the reasons we're doing well were documented by the United Nations a short time ago – they said we actually have the world's most productive labour force. We don't have low wages, but we get to do a lot in Norwegian business for the wages we pay. And why do we do that? Yes, because, among other things, we do. have very competent professionals as an element throughout the value chain to be involved in and develop business in Norway. So in addition to the focus here on research and higher education, we have to be able to read both foreign statistics on what is not good, and at the same time be able to take care of what is good in the Norwegian model, a very competent workforce, which contributes both to new forms of production and new products that are doing well on the world market. I therefore believe that the answer to the challenge of globalisation and the possibility of globalisation is innovation, and research and development is an important part of it. Whether or not we could get up to 3 pst in a short time. of gross domestic product, however, will be 99 pst. research is carried out elsewhere than in Norway. It puts us in a special competitive position, which means that we have to take care of the advantages we have. That's why we have to focus, as we've done. I've been into the maritime sector before. So we have the world's fifth largest shipping, and if they're going to build boats in South Korea, they need equipment from Kongsberg to get the best of the world. Or, as we have done in the maritime sector, we have used the knowledge of fishermen along the coast, put on research and development, and developed the world's best farming sector. That's why I think we're going to have to bet something more focused than the individual has expressed here, if we're going to get along with that 99 pst. research takes place outside Norway. That is why, to a large extent, it is what Mr Dørum said that we must protect 'the unborn business'. But I think it's getting too passive. We should simply participate in the fertilization!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7918	I just have to take the floor when it's a school debate. Because there were two important reasons why I founded Karasjok Left at all in my time, and one reason was that I wouldn't sit with my hands in jail and just accept the totally unacceptable working and learning environment as well as the students that teachers had, and still have very many places, both in Finnmark and many other places in the country. Our children and young people are our most important resource, and they deserve so much better than the school they're offered today. In Finnmark, as we know, everything burned during the war, so most of the schools we have in today's state are from the post-war reconstruction period, that is. they are built with the demands of the time for materials use and indoor climate, and very many scream after refurbishment, or – more correctly – new, fresh school buildings need to be built, and the old, sick buildings need to be demolished. I expect it will pay off in the long run. Because of several months of tough climate, dark times and cold, down to 30, 40 and 50 degrees cold, students and teachers stay indoors in these sick buildings much of the day. This, of course, leads to headaches and inconsistency. We have a lot of big challenges in our school, and that applies in many areas, as one survey after another confirms. For years, the majority of local government officials around the world have neglected the school. Therefore, the interest-rate compensation scheme introduced by the previous government was very welcome. Therefore, it is tragic that the government parties do not now wish to continue this scheme in 2008, as the Left wishes. There's one more thing I'll take the opportunity to focus on once again after I've taken it up countless times in the last few years here, both in the questionnaire and in writing with the SV's Minister of Education, and that's the situation under which it's working in the Sami school, in the central settlement area as well as further south of the country. In the introduction of new reforms in the school system, we will never get a new reform going in the Sami school before this reform is replaced by a new reform. In my opinion, it is quite appropriate that we start learning from Finland, where they do not have these reforms in school in time and in time. It's e.g. not yet produced a single textbook adapted to the new Knowledge Promise — Sami. As it is today, the teachers themselves must make their own teaching material. This is an entirely unsustainable situation. It affects the working situation of teachers as well as the requirements of pupils for full education in their own language. I would like to ask the new Minister of Education to engage in this, and I would like to express my deepest regret that the government parties have not wanted to support the Left when we also want to grant $5 million this year. To this end, in order to improve the conditions for Sami textbooks authors and educational material producers and for the increased production of Sami textbooks adapted to the knowledge promise — Sami.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7929	Of course, State Council Solhjell is quite right in its analysis of the relationship of the Right-People with wine. He probably has good experience from that, since we shared some bottles of wine together during the study period! But the point is that the Right People also know that at some point there is no link between price and quality in the case of wine, because at some point they pay more for label than for content. It's a very good parallel to the discussion about the Norwegian school. Before Kristin Clemet grabbed hold of the Norwegian school, it was properly marketed as the world's most expensive school, but it was also marketed as the school that managed to balance the differences in society. Then it turned out when a grip took hold of the contents of the school, that it was the same as an overpriced wine: the world's most expensive school failed to equalize differences. It was the discussion of local economy that made me take the floor. It does not benefit the rapporteurs in the municipalities of the country to balance their budgets with the rhetoric either from the Council of State of Solhjell or the Council of State of Giske. The reality out there in Kommune-Norway has even discovered Solhjell, when he adopted the framework for Kommune-Norway the day before the Stortinget, sent out a press release where he was concerned about the closure of schools and cut teaching positions. What was the reason for that? Well, the reason was, of course, that Kommune-Norway knows the content of the government's municipal plan for 2008. The newly elected local politicians do not sit around the country and kiss in school and care because they think it is fun when they have gone to the elections on the contrary. They do this because the government grants less money than the tasks they have assigned to the municipalities require. That is why the Minister of Finance writes in the national budget on pages 75 and 76 that there is a decrease in the free revenues of municipalities in 2007, and that there is a decrease in the free revenues of municipalities in 2008, precisely because there is no agreement between the tasks of an order and the money a grant, contrary to what it was in the last years of the Bondevik II government. So the Council of State says Giske, and I have to ask that the Council of State Giske from the pulpit withdraws, that under the Bondevik II government it was a systematic withdrawal of the additional tax revenue that came to the Municipality of Norway. It never happened under the Bondevik II government. Nor has it happened in Norway recently, except once, and it was under Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7938	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7941	Three short notes. – First to State Council Dag Terje Andersen. The Left’s proposal for a State budget opens up the possibility of participating in the conception in a systematic and predictable manner and with significant involvement. The vision of the Council of State and the Left is being met. With regard to the Aasland Council of States, she has made a comment that leads me, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, to make proposal No. 16 on the institutional sector to be submitted to the Commission. In the case of the Council of State Gieske, my small, historic point – he manages a church that fortunately remained long before some of us were born, there are long lines – that political arrogance anchored in the religious social democracy has some lines, and that was the only point I made. It manifests when the Council of State Gieske has power. He is delighted to use it, and I am delighted to oppose him, and for the moment I like to challenge him to torment students by cutting the basic allocation by approx. 300 million. kr. That's where the fight stands, and then we can take the rounds later. I'm sure we'll do that in terms of finding and pinching.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7950	I guess I was a little challenged by the representative Anundsen, and it was especially about chiropractor training. Now we don't have to make this a disagreement that's actually not there. I'm a little worried about when Anundsen says what he says. Here the entire committee agrees on a comment in the position, where a critic of the chiropractors, and where we say that we want to facilitate a chiropractor training. I will not vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, given that a decision has already been taken in 2004, which states: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of a chiropractor study in Norway.’ So, one would like to ask, has nothing happened? That may be why the Progress Party is making a proposal for a decision. Well, it's actually happened a lot. It has since that decision, for example: studies have been carried out by the Directorate for Social and Health which form the basis for further work to establish such training. There is also no doubt that there must be cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. So that's a good thing, but I do feel that the comment that the whole committee agrees on, and I hope that we can still be, signals an impatience in setting up such an education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7962	The representative Anders Anundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7965	When the Council of State Giske talks about what leads to political disdain, you should listen carefully, because it's someone who knows what he's talking about. In conclusion, I think it is strange that Lena Jensen is pleased with national tests, which she has previously been very dissatisfied with. She says that the new national tests do not provide a basis for first pages. The representative obviously does not read VGs that have published front pages and several pages inside the newspaper with the ranking of schools, and it shows the futility of trying to keep these kinds of results secret. The representative of Huitfeldt argued that the budgets of the opposition parties would also be cut in the university and higher education sectors. It must be directly wrong, and I find it unreasonable that this comes from the pulpit. Then I notice with great interest Solhjell's intense commitment from the pulpit, which really gives Rikvam's words a form of reindeer. He said quality costs, and that's what I quoted Reikvam. Then it is strange to continue the cut in the university and higher education sectors, whose quality costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7976	The representative of Lena Jensen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7979	There are two challenges I feel I have to answer. One goes into the textbook situation in the Sami elementary school. The textbook situation is serious. There are too few books, and too few teaching materials have been developed. But it is that funds for the development of the textbook for Sami learning material are the Sameting that has been responsible for, and the funds have been transferred to you. It is important to have a dialogue with the Sameting on how best to correct this situation as quickly as possible. The other thing I've been challenged on is NAC, traffic pilot training at the University of Tromsø. The government has made a decision that we want to establish traffic pilot training at the University of Tromsø. As the Council of State said earlier, there is a matter in ESA about this, and this matter is awaited. So you look at the possibility of establishing a similar education at the University of Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7988	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e7992	Councillor Solhjell could tell that the government parties in the previous government went back by almost 10 pst. at the 2005 elections. It's actually just a little bit more than the SV alone went back with at the election now in the fall, and SV was as well-known halved. There was probably also a judgment on the policy that the party has pursued in the department of Solhjell now in charge. It is also interesting to note that the government parties are very elegantly trying to overlook the fact that this year has also been marked by great demonstrations and a great deal of resistance to the budgets that have been presented. In the university square, it was staggering by students who demonstrated stubbornly against the government's cut-off proposal. What the previous government did was just to keep what we promised, namely to fully finance the quality reform. We did. That's what we gave priority to. Unfortunately, quality reform is no longer fully financed. Then I also notice that there is more than the opposition who is in Harmony over the so-called research policy of the Government. Professor Per Brandtzæg said in the VG yesterday that especially SV's research policy is a research bluff.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8001	Research, primary school, church, industrial research and other issues need to be dealt with in a single debate. But at the end of the seventh, there are some general principles: if we're going to build up welfare further, if we're going to bet on the community, are we going to make tax revenue that makes us take care of what we have in common? That's where the difference from the previous period to the current period is very well expressed. It is possible that Bent Höie is right that not much tax revenue was collected, but the point was that the income growth of municipalities was not as it is now, that is, far above what was foreseen and that the municipalities have retained. As far as I remember, in the autumn of 2005, in the municipal arrangement of the then outgoing government for 2006 there was a growth of about one and a half billion kroner. The result was approximately NOK 11 billion in the increase in the municipal economy. This is amazing. This is the basis for the church economy, for the school, for kindergarten, for health, for municipal nutrition funds – for all the local communities. What I miss from the opposition in relation to the church budget is: if you think that the councils should be a government task – it is a fair and fair debate – then you can say that you are going in and funding it. But this is a municipal problem. We made a state grant in 1997 — which the previous government also cut — because it is essentially a municipal funding task to provide for the Councils. It's also interesting to hear that you take the credit for the church building lending system. It wasn't the Bondevik government that suggested it. It was pressured by the Storting in a budget settlement. The same applies to the school-building loan scheme. It was proposed by the previous Stoltenberg government, and was SEK 15 billion, and Kristin Clemet suggested largely in every budget proposal cut in the loan frameworks from year to year. So maybe you should take credit for what you have credit for, and not do it for what you've actually not contributed to, but on the contrary, on the contrary, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8012	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1459]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8028	I'm not going to spend a lot of time on debate here, just pointing to a relationship that the four opposition parties together chose to rewrite in the regrouping proposition setting. Because it's like that. 281, public expenditure for universities and colleges is cut, and that money is to be used to finance increased resources for the police in the context of the issue of a police certificate for several health training courses. The reason for the reaction of the four opposition parties is simply that in no other area where there is a requirement for police certification, there has been a similar policy, i.e. that the maritime sector has to pay and finance increased resources for the police. We are not aware that this is happening, for example. in the kindergarten sector, and we think it's a very strange practice. Just because universities and colleges don't get any savings by introducing a police record, it's all the more strange to cut money in the chapter called "University and Higher Education" in order to finance the issue of a police certificate. The issue of a police record is something that Stortinget has believed to be important in a number of areas, and it is also done for good reasons, but it is a very strange practice that is now being put forward, namely that the shipping sector, which is therefore required to have a police record, has to finance the police's work on issuing these.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8039	Now we're a little bit geary after the budget debate, and there's free debate in this case, so it could be that I'm staying here for a while. No, I'll be very brief. The progress party is busy with more money for the police. They grant more money to the police in the budget, they want to grant more money in the balancing proposition, and we're concerned that the police will have enough resources to do their job properly. That's why we react a little to the police getting their money from the university and college sectors because it's introduced, in this room, demands for police clearance for some jobs. There will be no reduction in the cost in the university and higher education sectors of increasing the legal burden on the police in issuing police attestations. It's basically not going to have any other effect in the university and higher education sectors than that they're actually getting a little more work. It is strange, therefore, that the Government is now introducing a new principle – at least I have never seen this principle before – that sectors where police records are required to cover the costs to the police for issuing such a police certificate. That is why, of course, the Progress Party will give full support to what the rapporteur said from the President-in-Office of the Council, but we will also vote against the cut-off. 281 entry 1 in the room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8048	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1469]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8064	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1471]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8080	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1472]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8096	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity to change lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8103	Corruption has become an increasing challenge both in Norway and in the rest of Europe. An overall committee considers corruption as a threat to the rule of law, democracy and human rights and as an obstacle to economic development. When it comes to the often major consequences of corruption for those affected — individuals, businesses, countries and organisations alike — an overall committee once again agrees that this is a serious problem. Like other crime, corruption knows no borders, and international cooperation is therefore very important, one of which is the common adaptation of the laws of each country. In this context, I would like to refer to the treatment of Ot.prp. No 73 for 2006-2007 later today. There, any amendments to the Norwegian law necessary for the implementation of the Convention shall be taken into account. It is an overall committee that notes the importance of using civil law as a contribution to the fight against corruption. A good example in this way is the law of 1 December No. 64, where changes were made to the Working Environment Act with a view to strengthening the protection of alerts. An overall committee also welcomes the issues of compensation covered by the Convention. It is important that those who suffer from corruption receive reasonable compensation. Norway has previously ratified other anti-corruption legislation and an overall committee believes that this Convention is a new and good regulation in the fight against this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8116	I took the word just to underline one aspect, and that is the question of alerts, which is mentioned in the setting. It has been previously dealt with by another committee here in the house, and for some time I also had an interpellation debate with the councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. The background for me to take up that interpellation was that I was worried about collecting a lot of messages – well, notice at a time when the law had not come into force – which is that alerting is a rather tough situation. We are told that people find it so difficult that they basically regret it when they have done it. When I take the floor now, it is for no purpose other than that the Council of State will follow up this convention – and will certainly do so in a good way – and take this view, because we are totally dependent on what is called alerts here, but which in a completely different context would be called witnesses, are available to us, in order to combat corruption. So this is a warning that alerts probably have to be followed more closely than we have now. There is a call for a cross-political effort to do this, and it is necessary to ensure the fight against corruption that everyone here agrees on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8125	I note that the Committee unanimously supports the proposal in the proposal that the Storting should consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe's Civil Liberties Convention on Corruption. I am very pleased with that. This is an unusually important field. We see what kind of challenges – not only internationally, but also nationally – we are facing to penetrate and discover more of corruption. I agree with the Committee that corruption is a threat to the rule of law, a threat to democracy, a threat to human rights and a serious obstacle to economic development. It is important that Norway participates in international and regional anti-corruption work. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinge today gives its consent to the ratification of a convention that will make a good civil law contribution to the fight against corruption. Too often, there may be a tendency to stare blindly at the police instruments in all forms of crime prevention. And in this very area, I think the civil law instruments, where you speak the language that many of the actors understand, the language of money, are an important contribution. Therefore, a key element of the Convention is the regulation of liability in the event of corruption. Furthermore, the Convention includes, inter alia: provision for appropriate protection against unjustified penalties against workers who have reasonable grounds for suspecting corruption and who, in good faith, report their suspicions to the responsible persons or authorities, to which the representative Dørum also referred. I share the concern of the representative, Mr Dørum, and also the tension with regard to how the new rules will work in the future. That's what this is about. As regards the question of warning, it is quite clear that we need to follow closely. The Convention requires certain amendments to Norwegian law. Some amendments to Norwegian law have already been adopted that contribute to compliance with the Convention. By law of 1 December 2006 No The Working Environment Act was amended in 64 to protect the warnings. These amendments include new provisions on the right to alert, protection against retaliation against the alert and the obligation to facilitate alerting. Those amendments will also apply when notifying of corruption and complying with the requirements of the Convention. The amendments entered into force on 1 January of this year. I believe that the representative of Dørum has an important point. At least we have to follow the legal rules carefully to see if they adequately safeguard the protection that alerts should also have. We have to do that. The Ministry has found reason to propose a new provision in the Damage Compensation Act on liability for damage caused by violence in the event of corruption. I am referring to the fact that, at the same time as this matter, the Committee has a parallel case to be dealt with in Odelstinget, where such a new provision is proposed in the Law on Compensation for Damage. I am pleased that we have unanimity on this proposal as well. The new provision for compensation ensures the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on Civil Law in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8142	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1472]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8158	On 3 May 2005, the Council of Europe Council of Ministers adopted a Convention to combat trafficking in human beings and to strengthen the rights of victims of trafficking in human beings. An overall committee considers the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings as an important contribution to the fight against this type of crime. The purpose of the Convention is to prevent and combat national and international trafficking in human beings, to protect and assist victims of trafficking in human beings, to ensure effective criminal prosecution of the perpetrators and to promote international cooperation in order to achieve those objectives. In order to ensure the effective implementation of the provisions of the Convention, the Convention provides instructions for the establishment of a dedicated monitoring mechanism, GRETA, to monitor the implementation by the Parties of that Convention. The Committee sees the importance of establishing such a control body. The rules of the Convention may be divided into six main categories: Firstly, the Convention obliges States to take action to prevent trafficking in human beings. Secondly, countries shall ensure that the fundamental rights of victims are safeguarded, including that victims of trafficking in human beings are allowed residence in the recipient countries for a shorter or longer period. Thirdly, countries are obliged to criminalise various forms of trafficking in human beings and to prevent the victims themselves from being unjustly prosecuted. Fourth, States must ensure effective criminal prosecution of perpetrators and ensure that victims and witnesses are adequately protected during the process. Fifthly, States are required to cooperate with each other in order to achieve the objectives of the Convention for the prevention, control, protection and prosecution. Sixth, as mentioned above, countries are obliged to submit to a common monitoring mechanism to ensure that the Convention is effectively implemented. International cooperation, as in other areas, is important for the development of rules and the development of common standards and provides a basis for cooperation on both individual and phenomena. The Convention follows on from several points the UN Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime and its two protocols: the Palermo Protocol on Trafficking in Human Beings and the Protocol on Human Trafficking. The government prioritises the fight against trafficking in human beings, as highlighted in particular by the ‘Stop trafficking in human beings’, the Government’s action plan against trafficking in human beings for 2006-2009, which contains 37 measures. The government here emphasises that Norway should show an international commitment that contributes to strengthening the international framework. The Committee sees the ratification of this Convention as an important part of this work. The Convention includes several of the measures taken by Norway in its action plan. Trafficking in human beings is a gross violation of human dignity and a particularly serious type of crime that contributes to a form of modern slave trade. Trafficking in human beings threatens the right of victims to freedom from slavery, the right to self-determination over their own bodies, the right to freedom from degrading, humiliating and inhumane treatment, and, in the ultimate consequence, the right to life. Trafficking in human beings seems to increase both nationally and internationally, and it is estimated that trafficking in human beings has become the second largest illegal industry in the world, next after arms trafficking. The greatest extent is the trafficking of women and minors who are lured or refugees from poorer to richer countries in hopes of a better future, but end up in prostitution or other forms of exploitation. We all know the story of Lilja from the movie "Lilja Forever". Unfortunately, her story is not unique. We have many similar stories also in Norway. The Committee considers it important for the Government to focus its efforts on trafficking in human beings. This crime accounts for a large proportion of international organized crime in the world today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8204	The rapporteur presented the matter very well. Although this is just a ratification, it's not any ratification. Combating trafficking in human beings and strengthening the rights of victims of trafficking in human beings are very important, and I am pleased that Norway is now helping to advance this work. When we see which other countries have ratified this, it is very positive. One of the very important things is that the fundamental rights of the victims are respected. The Progress Party is pleased that the Government has focused on this, and that the Action Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings contains very many good measures. Although Norway is primarily a recipient country, we must not get blue-eyed and believe that we do not have other cases in this country. Finally, a little heart attack. Although we are currently only dealing with ratification, it is not going to stick under the chair that this is going to cost money. The fight against trafficking in human beings requires resources. It is important that this is not just a debate in Stortinget and an action plan that is not being followed up. Police districts must give priority to this work, and we know that we need resources, both economic and human. The Progress Party will therefore ask the Council of State to follow closely so that it also comes with resources, and to ensure that this matter is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8222	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough examination of the matter. According to the United Nations, trafficking in human beings is now passing drug trafficking and becoming the world’s second largest illegal economy after the sale of weapons. It's alarming in itself. Trafficking in human beings is a violation of human rights in its most serious form. It is a cynical exploitation of people who hope for a better life in a Western country but who are instead being held captive in prostitution or slave labor and subjected to inhuman suffering. It's a business that brings great economic benefits to the back, and puts human life at risk. Most victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway today are linked to prostitution, but developments in Europe show that forced labour and the removal of organs are also an increasing problem. It requires a great deal of attention and focus from governments, organisations and individuals around the world, and we must have a big joint commitment to combat this illegal industry. The Council of Europe Convention is undoubtedly an important continuation of efforts to combat trafficking in human beings internationally. The ratification of the Convention by the Norwegian side is important. We must do our utmost to ensure that as many other countries as possible do the same, and as soon as possible. It is gratifying to note that the Government will continue the work against trafficking and trafficking in human beings, which was significantly strengthened during the Bondevik II government. If, however, I am going to allow myself to be a little critical today, there must be reason to ask questions as to why it has taken the Government so long to bring this matter forward for the Storting, all the time it is not necessary to change the law to comply with the Convention. Anyway, I hope the government will use its channels now to influence other countries to ratify the convention. The fight against trafficking in human beings is an important battle and a major joint project, involving many of the world’s countries as beneficiary, transit or recruitment countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8239	I'm basically just taking the word short to give a pat on the shoulder to the State Council of Storberget. When you work against trafficking in human beings, a matter on which everyone here in the Chamber agrees, this is also true for that matter against violence in close relations, it may be that in other countries people who smile politely to you, but, as we learned in the Church's Bymission, they are emboldened by the spirit of resistance – they smile, but they mean nothing, they do nothing about it. In this context, it is very important that the matter is promoted. It is very good that we have had three action plans – in 2002, 2004 and 2006 – and I perceive that any opinion on this in public space has shown a very broad will in Norway to do something. It is also important that the Council of State has signalled that the police should make an effort in relation to these matters. Some of us remember the effort that started in Oslo in their time, and the one that went its way in Trondheim, which led to a series of court decisions before they were cleared up. So going into these issues, which are very demanding, is not easy research or police work. It's very important to set limits. I perceive that the Council of State in these areas has given very clear signals. Sometimes the joint staff work is to be supported in order to achieve something good, and this post has such a meaning and purpose. It's getting closer to Christmas – but even when it's housed around us, we'll remember that it can be housed more for people than it is for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8248	Cosy articles are always to be appreciated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8251	It's approaching Christmas, and it's good – but there's someone freezing, and it's the kids, the girls and the boys who are struggling in that traffic, and I'm very happy that very few in this room are trying to create something special party politics out of. That's good. Now, when we get this ratification in place, it's a very important step that's being taken. We'll never be able to position the main flows in this traffic unless we see other countries doing the same, so that we actually get an international synergy out of the effort. We're totally dependent on that. And I have to say that my experience in two years as a state councillor in the Ministry of Justice has been that there have been varying glances I have met with internationally. It makes me absolutely convinced that more than ever international cooperation is required in relation to this type of crime – yet I am not always as convinced when I leave various ministries of justice around the world. That's why it's good that we've got this done. I think this is cross-political, because it has been working on it in previous governments as well. It has contributed – and that may be one of the reasons why it takes time before ratification – that we are actually so careful to fulfil the obligations of these conventions. For example, it has taken time to establish. the investigation device we now have in Oslo, and the group called "Stop trafficking in human beings", on which we have been crystal clear on the part of the Government that we need to be in place to have dialogue with the girls and the boys who are victims of trafficking in human beings. It has resulted in – in Trondheim, in Bergen, and also now in Oslo – that we are in the process of bringing up criminal cases in this serious form of crime. I think that's absolutely crucial to sending out some signals. The use of criminal law mechanisms — punishment, detention or expulsion — is crucial. The fact that, as we also signaled in the action plan, we are now introducing an extended period of reflection for those who freeze – that the girls and boys in this traffic are given the opportunity to be here in the country for a longer period, and can also receive work permits where appropriate – is important. These are measures that we allocate money to, and that we implement. The fact that during this year we have started giving those who claim to be in a human trafficking situation, aid lawyer – even before they have submitted a notification – is important. In this way, we can get them into other relief measures, give them help to report to the police and to stand in a very heavy and demanding case. The fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now decided to set aside significant amounts – up to 180 million. kr over time – to just international action, in particular through the IOM, is crucial here. And I would also like to point to the EEA funding mechanism, where projects with other countries are also provided, to include: prevents boys and girls from leaving. To those who have been to the pulpit and claimed that this is doing a good job: we agree on this – all parties are right. That we can ratify the convention today is, in my opinion, a joyful step in the right direction to strengthen the pressure against a very serious form of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8266	It's a unanimous vote by the Justice Committee. I won't extend the debate much. One thing is to combat trafficking in human beings, but so important is the fact that the Convention should also strengthen the rights of the victims of trafficking in human beings. It is also a major challenge for us – as the Council of State was in it – how we in practice develop mechanisms that ensure that this is the case. There are several categories in the Convention. One of the categories is how to track national action against trafficking in human beings. We will have a case against the purchase of sexual services – a matter that the Government is working on – for treatment, probably before the summer. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would say that we regard that prohibition as a work against trafficking in human beings. I'm aware that we disagree here, but for us, the law is going to come, part of that work. Then we'll see if the law decision can work like that, or if it challenges any other mechanisms that are not desirable, including. that this will become less visible. We hope not. We hope that with this presentation, the Government will take care of the obligation we have to help those who, after a possible legislative decision, will still need the protection of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8279	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1473]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8295	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8304	Through the ageing of the state budget for 2007, the red-green majority once again marks the fact that we are taking the fight against crime seriously. So we're increasing the funds for the police by 20 million. kr. This money comes in addition to the increase of more than DKK 0.5 billion to the police and prosecution authorities in the period 2006–08. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we state that we want a close and strong police force across the country. This appropriation will further strengthen, inter alia: Oslo Police, the fight against economic crime and the reduction of response time to the public. I am not going to draw up a new budget debate, but I have to point out – as I did in the debate in which we mentioned the cutback of the Progress Party in the allocations to important institutions such as the tax haven and the customs service – that the signals of the Progress Party in the media today regarding the investigations into possible corruption in defence are worrying. It may seem that the Progress Party is in the process of de minimising and depriving itself of the fight against corruption and other financial crime, both in word and in action. It is well and good that the Progress Party in its comments on this matter is concerned with the police's ability to do their job, but when Carl I. Hagen and other leading trust elected members of the Progress Party go out in the media and question the police's methods and motives – as they do in the eyes of Ecokrim – it undermines the police's work. And I think that's very, very serious. Finally, I should like to refer to the Committee's other comments on the matter. We have noticed that the costs of free trial and free trial have been found to be lower than expected in 2007, and that these items have therefore been proposed to be reduced. Given that the costs of free legal aid are governed by rules, the reduction does not affect the rights of individuals under the scheme, nor does it signal any reduction in the future bet on the scheme. The Committee also looks forward to a review of the legal aid system, which the Government is now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8317	It is a very nice thing to get right up until Christmas, changes in the state budget for 2007. As the case shows, there is some over-consumption, and there is some under-consumption. I want to show that both the Conciliation Council, and not least the Criminal Service, are receiving increased funding. Then I'm a little surprised when the committee leader is now boasting that the police's budget will be strengthened by 20 million. kr, while we clearly know that the police will maintain the level of the day next year, there is a lack of approx. 120 million. kr. And you distribute 120 million. In the police districts, we all know that there won't be many dollars for each district. I will not deal with all the matters in the budget, but just talk a little about the proposals of the Progress Party. As everyone knows, the police have a lot to do with investment. The Stortinget was aware of this when the 2007 budget was discussed last year, and it was also aware of this when the budget was discussed this year. Unfortunately, the tight budgets of the police have resulted in investment in equipment being postponed this year. We have to remember that these are investments that they expected to be able to make this year. This applies not only to the police in general, but not least to the Oslo police. The Progress Party considers that this slowdown is so serious and so worrying that these investments must be carried out quickly and within the financial year. That is why I should have been here today and made suggestions to increase the cap. 440 with 30 million. kr and strengthen cap. 441, Oslo Police, with 10 million. kr. But on an incursion the proposal has fallen out, so now the Storting is going to have a week to think about whether they're going to help support this. We've now put this into the financial position, so the Council of State and the majority in this room can use this weekend to think about whether it's not very important that the police get the money for investments that they sorely need, and support the proposal when it comes next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8328	The committee leader has presented the matter in an excellent manner. This is not going to be a new budgetary procedure, but I can't fail to point out the fact that when the government here says they're going to strengthen the Oslo Police by 4 million, it's actually a cut of about 5 million. kr following the withdrawal of unused funds by the Oslo Police after the NATO Minister for Foreign Affairs meeting earlier this year. There's little doubt that the Oslo Police are doing a big job, but they're struggling with too little resources. It is therefore disappointing that the council could not have put on the Christmas dinner coat right before Christmas and let Oslo's chief of police keep the 9.3 million. kr equivalent to the minor consumption that has been associated with the NATO Watch. The police challenges are in line in Oslo, and then it is directly shattered that the department is confiscating the money instead of letting them stay in the police to increase their efforts against crime. At least it's rather speculative now to present it as if the Oslo police get new money, when that's the opposite. The representative Bjørnface was concerned about this with organized and economic crime. It is then a crossroads that the same capital now tells the Equation Offices that they do not have to report so many cases, because they do not manage to deal with them – and the cases have to be more than 2 million. kr to look at them at all and be willing to deploy resources to clear them up. Obviously, this sends crazy signals to society, so I also think the government parties should go by themselves in relation to what kind of criticism you stand here on the pulpit and distribute to others. Another aspect that calls for attention is the increased demand for and thus increased time spent issuing police certificates. In a situation where the police have a wide range of other pressing tasks, it is worrying if the work on issuing police certificates eats of time that should have gone to, for example, investigation and more visible police in the public space. Since the government parties would not be involved in a proposal from the Right and the Advance Party to get a statement in the revised national budget on the scope of the work on police statements, I would like the Council of State to respond here today to his assessment of the evolution of police statements, and whether the ministry will assess whether this work can be solved by non-politicians. Another question is whether the cost of police statements should be borne by the individual on a self-costing basis in order not to charge either the police budget or other public budgets. I understand the reaction of the head of the Education Committee, who questions the transfer of funds from the Ministry of Education's budget to cover the costs of issuing police certificates for students applying for admission to health education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8339	The Ministry of Justice's budget was discussed on Monday, December 3, so I am fine on behalf of the Left no reason to repeat what I said about a number of matters. I take the floor to inform you that the Left and – after a small colloquial group in the centre – the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the minority proposal submitted by the Right and the Advance Party on police statements. A short comment on that. I myself have been close in different contexts when you wanted such certificates, and I have registered that it has gotten a certain amount. I recorded to my amazement that earlier today we had a case in the church and education committee that was then marked. That's why I think it's important that the proposal promoted by the minority here in the committee comes out, and if it then, based on the arithmetic of power, falls, I think we're all served by the ministry giving a description of what this is all about, and can do it its way. It's always the way to listen to advice in the main hall, even if you don't always vote for the proposals. So with these comments, I would like to announce that both the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote in favour of the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8350	I really didn't think I would take the floor in this debate, but I had to do it after hearing the representative of Aspaker. I just want to say here from Stortinget's pulpit that we have not intended to go in to direct the police in such a way that the Right now apparently wants to direct the police. When you gave 42 million. Specially to the Oslo Police District in April to deal with a meeting of foreign ministers – we granted it extraordinarily – the Oslo Police District, the Police Directorate, the Ministry of Justice and I also believe most in this Chamber that that money should go to cover the necessary expenses for the Foreign Minister's meeting. It was a very clear assumption, and it is also in the budgetary system, that the money that was not spent on the Foreign Minister's meeting was to be repaid. So that's the round. So if you in the Right believe that you should be able to keep all the money even if they have not been used for the purpose for which they were to be used, and then just get more and more, we disagree with the Right on how to run the Norwegian police. I don't think it's very beneficial to go into such a calculation as the representative Aspaker goes into here, where she produces additions to the police budget as cut – in any case, it's cut. Here comes an addition to Oslo. So in the current year, Oslo has received some thirty million kroner for the Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting that was held – unusually. Substantial additional appropriations were made available in the revised national budget. Then the representative is familiar with what was in the next year's budget, and then these funds come now, at the tamp of the year – there are again a few weeks – for example. to be able to continue good operation until the end of the year. But we're moving on to a limit in relation to what you actually can make use of. In terms of investment, it is not the case that it is still out in the police districts. I think it is important that we also find that during this year and next year all police districts have been invested in protective equipment and weapons. And many districts are now in the process of taking significant action on the cars. So these extra funds will contribute to an enhanced effort, but not least what is in the budget for next year will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8359	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8362	I'm going to do that fine, since the council took the one point I had. The second thing I want to do is to problem a little bit, the right side's recurring rhetoric in relation to the efficiency of the public in general. It's all right, but when it comes to the police, it's always the exact opposite angle of incidence. Although Oslo police from 2000 until now have had an increase of more than 50 pst. – even under the previous government, there was a sharp increase – so it is not a single representative from the right who asks the question: Where does the money go? I believe – with the supervisory report we have now received from the POD, the Oslo Police District – that we will soon have to ask questions. What happens from the time that Stortinget grants the money to the police in relation to the misdemeanour we sometimes experience outside? It is also the case that there are some police districts that spend a great deal of time on construction a day; one police district in the south now builds, among other things. three police stations. When it comes to the police, I want the right-hand side to dry up, too, to take that debate. The right-hand side is very quick to cut in terms of other types of public agencies, such as taxes and customs, but why should the police in a way be at peace with the efficient use of money? It's a debate I'm calling for at the next crossroads. I could not attend the budget debate. That's why I had to get up and problematize just this. But I look forward to the next debate – to say so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8373	What this matter is about are changes and redeployments in the current year's budget. I am aware that the funds that were granted were granted for one purpose, but I am also very aware that if you wanted to, you could have redispatched and used that money for another purpose in this case. It is probably also that although this case is being dealt with in Stortinget now, a few weeks before Christmas, it has been known for a while that it actually stood 9 million. kr again after that meeting. In fact, at an earlier stage, one could have cleared up and allowed the money to be used in another way. Then I want to tell the representative Thomas Breen that I am absolutely convinced that the police too have something to do with their operations. However, when the Chief of Police of Oslo, in meeting with the Committee, says that in 2008, he must hold 110 vacancies throughout the year and that he has had to keep many vacancies available throughout 2007, it is not about being able to reorganise himself into wages and salaries to 110 jobs. I do not think so, but it is possible that some of the positions could have been more efficient. I think the government parties take very easy on the descriptions that come from the police out in relation to what kind of resource situation they have, in relation to what kind of things they have to take away, in relation to what kind of public enquiries they don't manage to follow up. We can only take note that it's the kind of formulation or the kind of statement that fell from the pulpit here. Finally, I refer to the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8386	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1473]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8404	I'm going to spend even shorter time this time. It is the case that today, in Odelstinget, we are going to deal with a very important legislative matter, which largely also concerns Document No. The content of the 8 proposal, so I think we should move the debate there. The Committee agrees. In addition to that, I have nothing else to say but that I recommend Stortinget to follow the committee's advice on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8415	Like the rapporteur, I agree that the big debate is going to take place in Odelstinget. However, I would like to say that this is an incredibly important matter. I had almost wanted the debate on this matter to be tomorrow or next week, after we have adopted the amendment to the law that we will adopt later today. Finally, I would just like to include the minority proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8422	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1475]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8440	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8445	The proposers in this matter are concerned that children and young people under the criminal detainee commit some serious crimes. This is a concern shared by the minority with the proposers. In this context, the proposers have raised eight points that they believe will help to improve the prevention of young people at risk. The minority in the Committee supports and supports these proposals and sees the importance of good prevention for children and young people. Children and young people need safety and adult contact. They get it through their parents and through the school. If this adult contact and security do not exist, young people and young people will face problems that may increase later in life. The minority believes that work on, among other things, should be continued. the establishment of police councils in all municipalities, and that this should be done by the end of 2008. The minority is also concerned about facilitating the establishment of binding SLT cooperation in all municipalities and is asking for the work to be intensified. What is also important in terms of prevention, which may be a major and difficult challenge, is how to measure the outcome of prevention. This is what we want to put in place. We want measurement criteria to be developed so that we can say that now we've done a good job, now the prevention work works. The minority also asks the Government to facilitate that each school has a police contact. The minority sees it as incredibly important that children and young people become familiar with the police in a positive way, that children and young people can deal with the police in a positive way, and that this contact can help to ensure that they do not get into an unfortunate relationship with the police later in life. The proposals put forward by the minority are commented on by the majority that there is a great deal to be done here. In fact, the rapporteur agrees that this is the case, but as the minority points out in the note, we think that it might be a little slow and that it is too low. The minority is promoting their proposals in order to get ahead of the case, because they see that this work is so important that something has to be done here – and it has to be done quickly. It is not useful to wait for all possible investigations that take months and years. It is important for young people and children that something happens, that prevention is started that really works before it goes out for too long in time. By doing so, I am promoting the proposals of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8464	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8467	The Labour Party points out that the Government is betting on measures to prevent children and young people from starting a criminal career. The government has a broad commitment to child and youth crime, which addresses the eight proposals for action put forward by the proposers. I would like, among other things: refer to St.meld. No 20 for 2005-2006. As a follow-up to the Storting’s treatment of this communication on alternative criminal responses for young offenders in December 2006, a public sample was set up in May 2007. The committee shall draw up a report until 1 October 2008. The final conclusions regarding some of the proposals made in this proposal for a representative are naturally included in the examination of the report of those committees. Once the report has been submitted by the public body, we will have a much better basis for assessing some of the issues that have now been raised than what we have today. In addition to the areas for which the sample has been requested, the Workers' Party will indicate that St.meld. No 20 contains a number of proposals to be followed up by the administration. The group would include, among others: look at how society should or should meet children under the age of 18 who commit serious crime and are imprisoned. The group’s report was completed in April 2007. I cannot comment on all the measures included in this article. No 20, but I choose to highlight someone. I would like to mention here the KrAmi project in Årdal, which is a pilot project. The programme targets young free-patient clients who need help to re-enter the labour market. I would also like to mention that it is important to consider amending the Children's Act so that child protection can be imposed on the appointment of a mentor for the child or youth. Responsibilities shall also be set up as soon as possible after deployment in order to facilitate good and sustainable action after release. I also see it as important that the police be measured on preventive work and not just on the percentage of information and the time of proceedings. This is where the police can, among other things, record the number of first-time criminals between 15 and 18 years of age and the number of repeaters in the same age group. We also want more use of conflict advice. I also agree with the case rapporteur, who mentions the police council as an important measure in the prevention work in the municipalities. I refer you to the response letter from the State Council of Storberget of 20 November 2007, which goes into detail on each of the individual proposals from the proposers. The letter is attached to this setting. The Workers' Party supports what appears there about the Government's work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8482	This case is a new, good example of how fine words in the Soria Moria statement are not translated into action, but disappear in selections and investigations. Government lots now refer to a sample work that will not end for another year. In the proposal for a representative, the right has addressed a number of measures that have the common aim of setting limits and brakes for young people operating in border countries for what is lawful. In the 2008 state budget, the Government reiterates its objective of criminal policy: to prevent better, to clarify more, to respond more quickly and to rehabilitate better. Anyone who has studied the Right Representative's proposal carefully will see that our proposals and actions are about better prevention, faster response and more emphasis on follow-up of children and young people who challenge the boundaries of the law. Therefore, it is very disappointing that government parties have now joined the fence in this round and will not be involved in sensible measures that can get young offenders out of circulation, back into the class or into other social contexts without crime and intoxication. Every day we get new reminders about the need to focus more attention on younger offenders. We see examples of children, both above and below the criminal detainee, committing serious criminal acts, without this being adequately captured by the auxiliaries. Children and young people are the future, and therefore, how we succeed in working among them has a major impact on the evolution of crime in the future. Criminal behaviour is risky behavior that we have to take seriously, and the Right believes society has, until now, failed these kids. The right has now put forward proposals in the Storting to open criminal-like responses to children under the criminal lavalry. It is necessary to take action to ensure that there is an early enough response to the youngest offenders, including those under the age of 15. Society limits the need for social security, but above all in the interests of individual children and young people. When the Minister of Justice asks about the serious lack of resources in which the police are located, part of his answer is that the Government is concerned with preventing crime. This is, at best, a desperate attempt to turn the focus away from the crisis in the police, because we have not seen a single proposal for action against children and young people at risk in order to develop criminal behaviour. On the contrary, the police express dismay at the budgetary situation and say that prevention will be harmful when there are neither enough people nor money. Better coordination of overall prevention work, better interaction between various public support agencies and accountability of both children and young people and parents are important prerequisites for ensuring that individuals at risk are helped to avoid a future criminal career. Early and clear demarcation implies showing concern and respect for children and young people moving on the edge of the law. Indifference and lack of response are the opposite. The government is not ambitious enough in terms of local prevention. I now feel that we are retreating from previous opinions on the police council and have been engaged in referring to the scheme as a voluntary one. This weakens at my discretion and can undermine the entire police council. Here I feel that the Minister of Justice must keep the pressure up and clean up. He must not only say to the Crime Prevention Council in the election campaign, but also believe it after the elections have been completed. SLT cooperation is an important foundation for systematic prevention among children and young people. Obstacles to the obligation of professional secrecy must be removed once and for all. It still appears as a reason – you don’t get it because the obligation of professional secrecy prevents different public agencies from talking together. There is a need to improve the capacity and the ability of the Councils to follow-up more, including through major meetings. We know that this method, for example: can be a good tool in serious bullying cases. Furthermore, anti- bullying efforts at school need to be followed up to ensure that all students have a good and safe learning environment. It's almost Christmas, and I have a Christmas wish that I hope the Minister of Justice will now lend a ear. The Crime Prevention Council is doing an important job in relation to guidance on the SLT method, and has also been involved in police councils. If we agree that prevention is important, I want the Council of State to take the initiative to involve politicians in this work. I also wish that one of the freed-up police officers be given prevention as a special mission. I think that the competent police officer, in close cooperation with KRAED, can contribute to raising prevention, thereby helping to establish cooperation between even more municipalities, and that even more police councils are seeing the light of day. I am convinced that wise and experienced policemen have a great deal to do, and that the continuity of this work is bid no. 1st@item: inlistbox Preventive work becomes too often left-handed work, because other things go ahead. I therefore hope the Minister of Justice can do something about this, and that he can fulfill my little wish now before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8514	If we had the answer to the last challenge of the representative proposal, we would have done an incredibly good job of preventing children and young people at risk from developing a criminal racetrack. This is where we often find the beginning, and it is also often the beginning of a long ‘carriage’ where you go in and out of prisons and at all times get out of control – unfortunately. I welcome the proposal for a representative, in the sense that we want to support what I really see as a rather cross-political desire to achieve more concrete and clear cooperation across municipalities, not least in order to help children and young people who are in the risk zone break their criminal track and get into a more correct track. Let me comment on some of the proposals on an ongoing basis. As far as police councils are concerned, I'm really excited to hear what the Minister of Justice says about this. I perceive that there has been a rather unambiguous message to all the municipalities in the country that such a police council should be set up. I hope that is the case, also from the Council of State. As far as SLT cooperation is concerned, we have many examples of that being very good. I have seen for myself the results of what has been done in the municipality of Ski and Spydeberg, where you work across the board. Elisabeth Aspaker noted that confidentiality is a barrier to getting access to some youths. In those places where you have taken control of this, you have not seen the obligation of professional secrecy as an insurmountable obstacle, but used the possibilities that lie there, without going across the law. Then, of course, you also get to school, to kindergarten, to those who, from the beginning, struggle with abnormal behavior. But you also have to look at child protection. I have to report a concern about the situation in Norway regarding child protection. Well, they've also got more resources, but it doesn't help much when the number of clients increases. Not least for those children who need the most follow-up. That's increasing even more. Then we get into the discussion we had before the summer, linked to those who commit criminal acts and who are between 15 and 18 years old. I would like to challenge the Council of State as to the status of the work of the sample to look at and find appropriate responses for this group. It's incredibly important that we tackle it properly. Preventive work and own measurement criteria proposed a Christian People's Party in a separate representative proposal a year ago. It is said in the budget that the police have their own prevention parameters. But when you ask, nobody really can answer what parameters you're looking for. So if it can be developed, I think it'll be a great advantage. We support all the proposals, with the exception of proposal No. 5, where the proposers wish to increase the compensation rate for parental liability from NOK 5000 to NOK 20 000. This is an objective responsibility. When parents can be blamed in some way, there is no such restriction, and therefore we do not support proposal No. 5, but relate to the legislation that is. As regards proposal No: 8, which poses some data protection challenges – the proposal on consent-based armaments in schools – we support it, but on the condition that a system of privacy and integrity, as set out in the proposal, can be found to be safeguarded. If you think you can't do it, we'll be waiting. To sum up, we support the proposals, with the exception of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8535	When the Left supports all the proposals except for two – I come back to it – it is not because we do not perceive that very many, including the government parties, agree with the intention here. I'm going to give a very timely reason why I'm now voting for this. I have observed with some wonder, with increasing wonder and intensity, the centralization attempt planned in the Follo police district. I have also recorded the police chief’s statements on what policemen should be used for – understanding what they might not be used for. When carrying out such extensive experimentation in such a large police district, the Left feels very strong reason to underline what we see as the intention of the proposers, namely that prevention work should not fail. We have seen, both before and after the recent decision to raise capital, that this has also meant the government parties. In order to be absolutely sure that this experiment in the police will not come ‘in error’ for this, we find, for our part, reason to vote for the main gravity of these proposals. We see them as reasonable, because we want to systematize good local cooperation to make sure that children and young people have a chance. It is also clear from the Council's reply to the Committee that there is a good deal of work to be done. It is shown, among others: to an action plan established under previous regimes, which is passed on to work in Trondheim, Kristiansand, Stavanger and Oslo – thus very important work. Just because of the trials now taking place in the police system, we will also stress the need to find a way to measure or give status to prevention. It is not always easy to measure prevention, but to give it a status, to give it a position, can at least be an important response in this context. With regard to the two proposals we do not vote for, it is proposal No. 5, with the same justification as the representative Syversen. Of course, we will openly consider what happens when the ministry changes the amount limit. As regards question No: 8, the left will not vote for it. I'm asking the President for the vote to be arranged so that we can get our point of view. So we are voting against proposal No. Eight. We believe that the reasons given by the Government, also on the basis of what is happening in other European countries, are a serious reflection. For my part, I want to draw a clear distinction between as extreme situations as the one we had in this city for a while back, when the police had to have a rassia at Sogn secondary school after the school's call. It was an extreme situation, it happens unfortunately sometimes, but this happened as force majeure, because you didn't want it like that. On the other hand, if you are going to take the drug-prevention or anti-drug work into school in the way you want to do here, including the use of health professionals, the Left shares the opinion expressed by the Council of State in its reply to the Committee. We believe that the purpose of the proposal can be understood, but we do not believe that the effect is promoted by the means outlined here. It is also the case that the work done in other European countries makes a certain impression on me. With these words, I make it clear that the Left votes for six of the eight proposals of the Progress Party and the Right. We believe that they have been given an acute topicality through the very extensive centralisation attempt in the Follo police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8550	It's a very important theme The Greatness is now debating. Children and young people are the most important things a society has. Securing children and young people is the most important thing. There are three things I see as important to keeping children and young people away from crime. It's safe parents, a safe school day and good leisure. Then it's about strengthening your parents. It is important to strengthen their daily lives, both mentally, physically and not least financially. This government has a policy that makes even more people get into work. It makes parents feel safe on their own and have a better economy. It gives children a safer home that keeps them away from crime. We also know that the higher the education parents have, the safer the home for young people. Nor will it come without you having a job to go to and a good economy. So it's important to secure the school. We have to make school even more exciting and even more challenging for our youth. The government has now decided to extend the Norwegian school hours from 2008. It means bigger challenges and something more to reach for our children. It gives them a safe school. We've improved the parents' economy even in high school. From this year on, the government has decided that high school will be free. From year to year, the free education system will be continued, and within three years, secondary education will be free of charge. This means that more young people will be motivated to take higher education. Motivation for higher education and a better future keeps young people away from crime. It's small things, but it's good results. For example, the government has now introduced fruit and vegetables in school. It gives young people a safer everyday life at school. So it's a little thing, but it can also be big, and that's the access to alcohol. The party involved in the promotion of the proposals in this position has cut down very much on the taxes on alcohol. This means that access to alcohol is made easier for young people as well, and that in turn means a greater risk of committing criminal acts. Municipalities do not have statutory prevention tasks. This government has turned the municipal economy upside down, ever since we took over. From the time when the Minister of Justice had only one solution: minimum money and efficiency, we have given the municipalities a great deal of money. Nevertheless, the municipalities, in particular those governed by the Right Party and the Advance Party – I come from the Municipality of Oslo and know how it is there, the budget was treated yesterday, and the districts complain – to give good leisure opportunities to our youth. They have to do their job. The government has done its job. Then the municipalities have to spend this money properly and provide children and young people with leisure services. Finally, I want to talk to children and young people with a minority background. They have the same challenges, and they have to do the same thing for, as I mentioned earlier, but there are a few extra dimensions that these young people need to be safe in their everyday lives. It's making working life inclusive for them, so they know they have a job to go to. It will motivate them to be at school, engage in their studies and take on higher education. They must be given the hope that they will have a future in this country. They must be seen as something positive in this society. The constant negative talk about children and young people with a minority background is part of building up their hope for the future. These measures will provide our young people with good and safe homes and a safe everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13.ana.ud799e8567	The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to come, and the morning’s meeting is being cancelled. – The first speaker at the evening meeting is the Council of State Knut Storberget.
