ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e43	The representatives of Dagfinn Høybrätten, Robert Eriksson and Tord Lien, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Five permit applications are available: from the representatives of Odd Einar Dørum, Laila Davøy and Henning Skumsvoll on leave from 4 June to 6 June – all to take part in the 53rd session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly of Paris from the Workers' Party Group on welfare leave of the representative Eirin Kristin Sund from 4 June to 9 June from the representative of Mr Bård Hoksrud on maternity leave from 4 June to 15 June These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Rogaland County, Unn Therese O. Sørensen, currently holds maternity leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under Eirin Kristin Sund's leave from 4 June to 9 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are convened to meet during the leave period of the West Agder County: Kjell Ivar Larsen For Hordaland County: Knut Arild Hareide For Oslo: Alvhild Hedstein For Rogaland County Espen Torsteinsbø Hansen For Telemark County Magnhild Holmberg2. Espen Torsteinsbø Hansen and Magnhild Holmberg are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Eirin Kristin Sund and Bård Hoksrud respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e112	Kjell Ivar Larsen, Knut Arild Hareide, Alvhild Hedstein, Espen Torsteinsbø Hansen and Magnhild Holmberg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e118	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and the rest of the week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e137	This statement is a follow-up to the request made by Stortingen at the Innst. S. No 114 for 2006-2007 — with reference to Document No 8:105 for 2005-2006, where «the Storting must be given the opportunity to open debate on major and principal EU/EEA matters», and the Government is asked to ‘make half-yearly presentations to the Storing on major EU/EEA matters’. I value this occasion. Perhaps, with the exception of some parts of the annual foreign policy statement, we have not had a suitable framework to assess broader European policy developments. I am pleased that everyone, regardless of their views on the EU and the EEA, has wanted this. We have other forums in this house where we are discussing a wide range of specific issues, in particular related to the EEA and the flow of legal acts. In this presentation, I would like to focus on providing a broader assessment of key trends in the EU. There may be a danger that all the individual cases can take over, that we outside the EU will lose the grip on the whole: where does the European Union go, where does Europe, which is now increasingly in line with the European Union geographically, and which appears to be even more politically similar to Europe? There is no fasitant answer to such questions. But we have to put them on hold and open up for debate and reflection on what they mean for Norway. Such debates – two of them per year – will contribute to the Government and the Storting's common objectives of greater transparency, increased commitment and dialogue on European policy issues. Norway is not a member of the EU and it is not up to us today to put the membership issue on the agenda. The development of EU cooperation is intertwined with ‘an increasing number of aspects of Norwegian society’, as the Stortinget has underlined. It is a function of our relationship with the EU through the EEA and Schengen. It is a function of the EU’s role globally. And it is, if I may say so, a function of Norway's geography, Norway's neighbourhood, Norway's trade, the travel patterns of the North, and the fundamental fact that we are deeply anchored in the same cultural and value base. Our relationship with the European Union is therefore our closest globalisation project. Int. S. No 115 for 2006-2007, a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee states that ‘the EU has played an important, stabilising role in Europe and has contributed to economic development and inter-people’s contacts’. [[...]] [[...]] At the same time, the Committee ‘registers that closer cooperation among EU countries could be a challenge for related non-member countries such as Norway’. So we have our relationship through the EEA and Schengen, as well as the thousands of links that connect us to the EU Member States and peoples. The government has been very clear on this. We need to think and work more strategically in our relationship with the EU and the Member States, and we should give better priority between the issues we choose to pursue. This is a politically important work, for government, for magnification and also for the entire civil society in Norway. This is about raising awareness, clearer priorities, a more strategic focus, but also about Norway’s recognition. Despite its legislation and basic texts, the development of the EU depends to a large extent on developments in individual Member States. This is nothing new, but it's worth remembering, because we see it clearly now. It underlines one of the main messages of the Government in this statement: in parallel with good work on key EU institutions, we need to follow our European policies more actively bilaterally towards the capitals of EU countries – from Lisbon to Ljubljana, from Rome to Riga, from Stockholm to Sofia and the 21 others. There are clearer signs of different bilateral networks. It is also natural when the EU now consists of 27 countries and not 12 or 15. There is nothing wrong with us both understanding and working towards such networks – where we have something to give, and where we have something to pick up. My point here is this: it is the Member States that set limits at all times, give room for action and indicate the direction to the further development of EU cooperation. It is from the political mosaics of the countries that new initiatives need to pick up their colours, their joints and their industry, and it is from the same diversity that political projects can stop. For some it may seem frustrating, but that is democracy. That is why it is part of Europe's strength. We need to analyse this more thoroughly and understand better, in order to see how policy trends can take shape in new directions for the EU. If we are to influence, we must take early and work on – or counter – such directions, especially as regards the areas of interest we have at the top of our agenda, such as the management of natural resources, fish, energy, climate, environmental protection or research, as some examples, or we can take migration, which challenges the whole of Europe differently. The second point, which I have already touched on, is this: there is a bilateralisation within the EU, that is. closer cooperation between countries, two or more. It is interesting to see how the different Nordic countries, when entering the EU, expected a reduction in the need for bilateral foreign stations. The experience so far has almost shown the opposite. The need has increased, precisely as a result of increased bilateralisation of the EU under a common EU umbrella. If, while we were able to observe the new Nordic EU countries early in membership, we were careful to enter into alliances, it is more active now. In other words, we need to see what the individual Member States do and listen to what they think. We have to choose the right things to promote to individual countries and to the Presidency. The system and strategy for this need to be improved. We have to ask ourselves, what can we achieve when this country takes over the presidency or takes over the leadership of an alliance in a matter of matter? Where, how and when can we best influence? Portugal shall take over the Presidency on 1 July. Portugal has jurisdiction over 50 pst. of the sea areas of the EU. With Portugal, we have traditionally wanted to develop links with Africa and Latin America, and a commitment to peace in the Middle East, with a number of interests in common – sea and coast, fisheries management, exports/imports of fish, shipping, transatlantic focus. We note a closer community with Portugal, also as a result of Norway's contribution to cohesion programmes for many years. These tapes have colored the Prime Minister's conversations with Portugal's Prime Minister during the visit to Lisbon last month, and I follow up on my visit to the same capital in July. In our contact with the German Presidency, we have put a clear focus on energy, energy security and the northern regions. We've had close contact with Germany at all levels in the last six months. Minister of Foreign Affairs Steinmeier visited Oslo and Hammerfest before the Presidency, and he joins me to Tromsø and Svalbard in August to look further at an enhanced Norwegian-German and European cooperation in energy, research, development and climate. Networks are further developed and contacts are deepened. Similarly, we are seeking deepening with selected EU countries in areas where we have mutuality to develop – with the Nordic countries, of course, but also with the established countries and with the new ones, where so much is at stake as a result of our contributions through the funding mechanisms. We have a wide range of numbers that reflect our ties to the EU and the EU countries – from trade to students, from gas exports to invested capital, from researchers to tourists and artists. I'm not going to list the sizes in detail. The point of our important agreements with the EU is that they should provide all these links and contact points with a framework and, as far as possible, a level playing field for cooperation, competition and legal protection. Because we are a state of law and because we want equal rules of play to apply to everyone in Norway, we take that basic position out and want the same in Europe. The Government considers that the EEA Agreement has served and serves Norway well. Every day of the year, every hour of the day, the Norwegian operator shall ensure predictable, equal and practical framework conditions for exports, imports and a wide range of other activities in the EEA wide area. However, we also experience challenges: market access for some Norwegian export products is not satisfactory. Here, the authorities and the business community have a common responsibility to influence the EU to conclude trade-restrictive measures. I am thinking in particular of the restrictions imposed by the EU on imports of Norwegian salmon and trout. Through our Schengen membership, we are linked to important parts of EU cooperation in justice and home affairs. This cooperation has also served Norway well. Here we have an arena where Norway is important in areas that are important to the European Union and where we act together with the European Union in order to ensure effective and sound control of the external borders. So it's in terms of strong agreements. But they have one structural political weakness: they are very focused on individual issues, on legal acts – important enough – but they are not simply catching up on political developments. They do not enjoy ever greater cooperation in the field of outside the internal market, cooperation which is not regulated by the Treaty in the same way as the market. We're essentially not involved in this, and it's no more than reasonable, since we're outside. But since we are automatically connected in the internal market, we should not be tempted to believe that the same is true of the broader political processes. We must increasingly seek out ourselves, use time to understand and seek new ways to influence where it is desirable and possible. What trends are so tone-setting for the further development of the EU today? What is the direction of EU cooperation? This is a demanding assessment, because the EU’s direction is constantly evolving. The picture I'm giving today is characterized by Norway standing outside and looking in. I don't want to give the impression of anything else. In March this year, the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome was celebrated, and the European Day – Schuman Day – was marked on 9 May. From Schuman's visions in his speech in May 1950 on industrial ties stabilising, the EC/EU has been the subject of a project of political innovation, organisation and governance jointly over half a century. Increased interdependence has built and strengthened the community. EU history is about the development of a governance system at European level, with global implications. The emphasis was placed on economic cooperation, with an explicit peace policy objective, a great political vision. Then, over the years, we have seen that virtually all kinds of questions have been put on the EU agenda. The need to find common solutions to major, cross-cutting issues has always been a driving force for this cooperation. What has appeared to be crises has created breakthroughs, new leaps and helped to drive the EU’s development, enlargements and greater integration – and all at the same time. In recent years, we have seen how, for example, energy has taken the road to the top of the political agenda. Development of a common energy policy has been on the agenda for a long time, but this has speeded up as energy prices rose, and not least when Russia stopped supplying Ukraine and White Russia. Leader after leader says the same thing: Energy is on top of the political agenda. This gives Norway opportunities and challenges. Then we have increased recognition of the need to deal with climate change, another area that starts in the individual Member States and then takes the way to the Community institutions. EU cooperation in this area is growing, and the EU has ambitions to take the lead. The EU’s foreign and security policy cooperation — which is primarily intergovernmental cooperation — has developed strongly over the past 10–15 years. The wars and conflicts in the Western Balkans have in many ways acted as a test piece of foreign policy for the EU and have contributed to the recognition of the need for joint action and to the ability of good coordination to deliver results. Another area is the EU’s role in global poverty reduction and commitment to peace and reconciliation processes. Gradually, the EU has also undertaken no less than 16 military and civil crisis operations in different parts of the world. Dramatic events that since 11 September 2001 the terrorist attacks in Europe have strengthened the coordination of measures against terrorism and international crime. However, the EU does not always speak with one voice in all cases internationally. Two of the EU members have permanent seats in the UN Security Council. Within a global agenda, EU countries such as the United Kingdom and France usually have two roles, one alone and one via the EU. It is still not perceived that you can pick up the phone and call a phone number to Europe, as Henry Kissinger called for in a frequently quoted wording. Today, the role of the EU in the international policy arena does not correspond to its economic role globally. The disagreement on Iraq showed this. At the same time, this crisis contributed to a broader internal debate on the need to be united in foreign policy. Together with the forthcoming Portuguese and Slovenian Presidencies, the strengthening of the transatlantic links has been an important objective. This is widespread in the EU, not least among several of the new Member States. With a new government in France that has this as its target, there is a lot of evidence that we can wait for the EU to focus more on cooperation with the United States, especially when Europe is preparing to meet a new American administration. A stronger focus on Europe-USA relationship is a development Norway should welcome. We – who have our alliance in NATO and who see the links across the Atlantic as a security policy base, and who at the same time have so many political, economic and cultural ties with Europe – are very little served by deeper rifts between the United States and the EU. Today, the relationship with another growing power and neighbour — Russia — poses a challenge. Not one week goes by without a subject in our relationship with Russia dominating the agenda: nuclear stocks in the Kola Peninsula, disarmament agreements, fisheries management, cross-border trade, our neighbourhoods in the north, Russia's changing relations with its neighbouring countries. Several EU countries see Russia as a strategic partner. Other Member States experience severe dependence on Russian energy supplies as problematic. Russia today provides more than one third of the EU’s gas needs. It's over 80 pst. of Russia’s exports of gas. Of course, the EU is dependent on Russia, but it is important to emphasise that addiction goes both ways – that Russia is also dependent on the EU as a market. We must have a look at the proportions here: Europe is not served by a weak Russia, a Russia in disintegration. Since the 1990s, broad cooperation between the EU and Russia has developed, the contact network has grown in depth and breadth, among others. anchored in the current Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. It's positive. St. Petersburg is no longer a city 'on the other side'. It grows as a powerful European coastal town by the Baltic Sea. At the same time, there are clear signs of a cooler climate between the EU and Russia, as it is between the United States and Russia, and the rhetoric is sharpened. The EU-Russia Summit in Samara on 18 May this year did not contribute to the agreement on the framework for a new partnership agreement. The EU was united in Samara on the challenges of the new Member States, and there are still Member States that do not want to progress in the agreement, including the United States and Japan. due to difficulties in exporting meat from Poland and difficulties in delivering oil from Russia to a refinery in Lithuania. Yes, we are constantly seeing several signs of tension and chimera in conflicts between Russia and countries that were formerly in the Soviet sphere. We saw the last thing in the relationship between Estonia and Russia. It is essential that both the EU and the United States — and Norway naturally belong here — show firmness on key principles relating to democracy, the rule of law, civil society, and on the role of the media in global society, which is also the subject of a major international conference in Oslo today and tomorrow. Russia is an emerging democracy in fragile development. Now this democracy is being tested for the open, international scene as it's running counter to elections. And never will democracy be tested more thoroughly than when it comes to respecting the right of voters to have their say freely and safely. There are several disturbing signs here, and we have to say that. At the same time, we need cooperation with Russia, including: to find lasting solutions to questions as varied as the future status of Kosovo and the Iranian nuclear programme – and not least climate. And we, who are neighbours, have a fundamental interest in the positive development of cooperation between the EU and Russia. Traditionally, Norway lay strategically located with the United States as the nearest ally and with the Soviet Union, later Russia, as the closest neighbour — in a rather solid, predictable and transparent landscape, albeit cool. Today, the landscape is different, and in many ways we can see a triangle, the EU – Russia – USA, that provides new perspectives and challenges for the preservation of Norwegian interests. In the same way as the EU – and in our partnership with the EU – Norway has challenges towards Russia related to issues such as visa issues and fish exports, or other food exports. For example, our visa agreement with Russia is. the model according to Schengen. At the same time, however, we have areas that are unique to Norway. We own and manage the cod in the Barents Sea together, and Europe is the market. We have a neighbourhood along a clear border and an undecided sea border. Then we have energy supply and energy security, where Norway, together with Russia, as mentioned above, meets large parts of the EU’s gas needs. But here, there's an important difference. We both supply gas, but Norway does it as ‘a supplier from the inside’ because we are part of the EEA Agreement. We have implemented all EU energy legislation in Norwegian law – as opposed to several EU countries – and it is worth recalling to EU representatives. My point here is that our EEA membership, with the obligations it entails, does not weaken our position as an energy supplier. On the contrary, I believe that it strengthens this position, because it contributes to the predictability and long-termity that are so important characteristics of Norway as an energy supplier. Europe knows that Norway is not politicizing gas sales. It strengthens Norway. From the Norwegian side, it is an overall objective to involve Russia in all cooperation – in all areas – and to cooperate with Russia in our neighbourhood and internationally. Russia is now a more self-conscious actor, an energy storm power, which internationalizes its business. But we don't have to look at all this as an "alarming move" and a "cold war reflexes". Reflections are not to be despised, but reflection is a better tool. We will show a recognizable Norwegian foreign policy towards our neighbours in the north, on energy issues, on fishing resources, on business, on research and development, on climate challenges and on human rights and freedom of expression. Norway’s Russian competence is high, and many EU countries benefit from our analyses and assessments. It is the basis of Prime Minister Stoltenberg's programme and talks in Murmansk, Moscow and St. Petersburg later this week. All of this is a deep reflection of the Northern Territory Initiative of the Government, and Northern Region Policy is thus an integral part of European policy. Centrally, the relationship with Russia, which we have discussed several times in this room in the last few months. However, it is also crucial how we create a broader community of interests with European partners in the north. Consciousness and development of such communities is important to us and something the Government is working for – not least in relation to our closest neighbours. There is now a reflection on what can be called the cooperation architecture in the north, among other things. stimulated by the northern dimension of the EU, where Russia, Iceland and Norway are involved. The EU is drawn between north, south, east and west. There will always be some kind of competition about attention. We have to help keep focus to the north. We have to do it in close cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. I believe in the revitalisation of Nordic cooperation, provided that we are ready to go new ways and provided that we are able to interact with the EU. We need to be alert to further develop cooperation of a more security policy nature as a result of the new political realities in the north. These are challenges related to environmental, climate, transport, resource management and production, human interrelationship across borders. This is a theme in the category of soft security. The cooperation agreement with Iceland signed in April is one example. As coastal states, Norway, Denmark and Iceland have been engaged here after the United States left the base of Keflavik. Similarly, Norway has room for deepening cooperation with Sweden and Finland, the three neighbours of the Scandinavian peninsula. Last week, for the first time, there was a meeting of the Foreign Ministers between the three of us – complemented by State Secretaries from the three defence ministries. Our defence agencies work more closely together, especially between Norway and Sweden. And externally, we see that we have an increasing number of areas of common interest – from relations with Russia in the north, to industrial development in the north, to environmental and climate challenges, just like our joint participation in the EU Battle Groups, and, a step further, to closer cooperation in international military operations, such as in Afghanistan. Our conversations will continue. And because these are EU countries and NATO countries that meet together, they have cooperated with us more than ourselves. Therefore, this review is part of a statement on EU development. The EU agenda is constantly being amended and expanded. Member States cooperate in more and more policy areas. It is worth noting that next year will be the first year of EU history where less than 50 pst. the funds go to agricultural policy and the Structural Funds. Instead, a greater proportion of funds are channelled into new areas of intervention. The focus on new areas has also been on the emergence of new forms of work, the increased use of intergovernmental forms of cooperation and the increased emphasis on cross-sectoral strategies. We see this, for example. in the economic field, with the Lisbon strategy that embraces economic, social and environmental policies, or in employment with the Luxembourg process, or in financial policy cooperation, and in the EU’s global work where the instruments in the fields of foreign policy, trade, development and justice are used together – precisely to address more complex challenges. We have to take this over from the Norwegian side. In parallel with cross-government networks, closer links and networks between national parliaments, local and regional levels of government, and not least between organisations, research institutions and civil society environments, are being developed across borders across the EU. Gradually, such networks change Europe, politically and culturally. Perhaps this is one of the things we need to pay the highest attention in the future, from the Government and from the Grand Duchy, but also from all the actors in Norway who are in contact with Europe. We have to recognise that this is demanding, because in this new large European Union the alliances and the nature of the bands vary and the strengths vary on a case-by-case basis. It is not just easy for Norway — from the outside — to take care of its interests in this European image, with complex and often more unwieldy cooperation patterns, new flows and greater diversity. At the same time, we need to focus on opportunities, because what is more sought after now is what and who can contribute to solutions, and not the exact status of each country. But do we make good use of this? Can we think even more strategically here? I think so. And let us not forget: Norway must continue to work well with the Commission, the European Parliament and other EU institutions – where, for its part, the European Parliament has gained greater influence through multi-field codecision procedures and active involvement in foreign policy. We emphasise this through the work of our EU delegation, and I note that several of the parties in the Grand Duchy are more active in relation to the European Parliament. It's positive. In an article in the international press last November, my colleague Carl Bildt wrote about the importance of pluralism and the fact that countries entering the EU are not absorbed or swallowed by the EU. These new members add something to Europe, they strengthen the EU. Extensions stabilize, according to Bildt. That's an interesting perspective. The enlargements of the EU contribute to a stability zone in Europe. In a sense, this is disciplining. The EU represents a type of soft power – soft power – that is the only real tool in Europe today, the power that creates bonds, that ensures. Yes, this soft power can be formidable, especially when we see so clearly that the hard power, the military, is still important to deter, but is not the right method of building security and creating development – especially in the new Member States, and especially in the troubled Balkans. The challenge is to facilitate conditions so that the soft power can be applied — i.e. the power of the perspective on EU membership, support for reforms, exchange of students, massive transfer of experience and competence – all of this that can build new legal states, new democracies. We forget too easily the great promise that lies in the enlargement of the European Union. Twelve countries are now integrated into what appears to be a historical anchor in democracy, the market economy and the rule of law in a broader perspective. The transfer of resources from the west to the east of the EU – and here we are through our programmes – is our time political version of the Marshall aid. How should such a diverse and enlarged EU work? The German Presidency aims to further negotiate an agreement on a road map for what may well be called an additional treaty rather than a new constitutional treaty. There is broad consensus among Member States on the need to make – as a minimum – institutional changes that can provide a more efficient decision-making structure with 27 member countries around the table, where the agenda is growing. Agreement on such institutional reforms is also a prerequisite for further enlargement of the EU. There is now a new impetus in this work, and it will be the dominant theme at the EU summit later this month. Here, German Chancellors play a leading role in negotiating agreement. The new President of France has announced that he does not see the need for a new referendum, provided that the Treaty is less extensive than the proposal that was voted down more than a year ago. Prime Minister Blair has announced a similar position. We can hardly predict the outcome, but several analyses point to the fact that there can be agreement on a less extensive agreement. Constitutional features and symbols that give associations to the EU as a state institution have been proposed. The conclusion can be an institutional ‘cleaning’ — called it — while at the same time strengthening joint bodies in the form of, among others. the introduction of the EU President and the EU Minister for Foreign Affairs, with the seats of both the Council and the Commission. In addition, decisions may be taken on joint action on climate and energy and closer cooperation on justice and home affairs policies, as well as a discussion on how much is to be included by social rights, and, where appropriate, attempts to reopen the discussion on the allocation of weightings in the Council. All these major issues will be addressed at the summit on 21 and 22 June and the aim is to provide a mandate for further negotiations in a government conference to the autumn. Historically, extensions have always gone hand in hand with further immersion. There hasn't been anything either – or. Gradually the depression has followed the expansion. At the same time, through the historically important choice of enlargement as a strategy after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the EU has removed the most advanced visions of depression. We must now note a stronger tendency towards what can be called 'differentiated cooperation'. The distinction between pushers and skeptics to closer EU cooperation has in practice been reflected in the integration of different speeds and scopes, where several of the more integration countries are not involved in all cooperation. The United Kingdom, Denmark and Sweden are outside EMU and the euro zone, which will be expanded next year to include Malta and Cyprus. The United Kingdom and Ireland are outside Schengen cooperation. And Denmark still has its special formalised reservations, including security and defence cooperation. All of this is the result of negotiations, either in the context of Treaty changes or in the context of membership. In today’s EU-27 and with the prospect of further enlargements, there is a trend towards cooperation with different participants, and with different thematic focus: e.g. deepened economic monetary union, foreign, security and defence cooperation, or justice issues. The discussion on this issue will continue, in parallel with the efforts of the Member States to address the institutional challenges. The question of further enlargement is today about the Western Balkans. But the dominant theme is Turkey. This is controversial because the issue of Turkish membership really stimulates the debate on what should be the identity of the EU and where the EU borders should go. Norway can hardly be said to be called to have strong opinions about the EU community. But we can see that the EU's open door for membership of states that live up to the demands of democracy, the rule of law and human rights has been driving the development of many new Member States. I believe that Europe will live up to its values if a similar open door was offered to Turkey – right up to membership. Two major areas of action have been raised high on the EU agenda – and also on our own – namely climate and energy and migration and development. These are the subject of debate in parallel with the Treaty. Let me say a few words, finally, about these areas. The emphasis of EU countries on security of supply in energy and climate change mitigation measures is widely discussed and well known in this room. Member States decided at their Council meeting in March this year on common objectives and measures. The EU is a key player in climate policy globally. One third of the world's GDP is that of the EU countries. EU emission reduction measures and mechanisms are therefore essential to ensure sustainable development. Norway clearly supports the objectives set by the EU and part of our solution will be linked to our participation in the EU ETS from 2008. Developing more efficient and environmentally friendly technologies is an important part of this picture. It also applies to the value creation on the Norwegian base. Norway is concerned that testing for the capture and storage of CO2 should not be limited by State aid rules. We need to ensure that our expertise and knowledge are part of research projects and activities in this field with the European Union. Major global climate change means that we need to rethink the intersections between politics and governance, business, industry and technology. And one important message is this: both in the EU and in Norway, new forms of cooperation are now being created with civil society and with industry and industry, which are committed, which see opportunities, and which push innovations that meet ever-increasing demands. But we can also meet new challenges. On 9 May, the EU Commission’s Judicial Officer, Frattini, proposed legal standards aimed at ‘green crime’. These are draft legislation and sanctions against, for example: pollution and other environmental infringements. There is now a debate in the EU system. Such an initiative in the field of environmental crime is interesting, not least because to date the EU has not been involved in criminal law. In my view, such a proposal would have been unrelenting to promote just two years ago – a new development we need to study carefully. In other words, these are new ways of thinking today, where foreign policy and domestic policy are woven together, globally and locally, where the actors are many, and where we have many opportunities to seize them. Migration is another policy area where EU countries are seeking to agree on joint solutions, foreign as domestic, and where the challenges and differences within the EU are very large. Europe needs labour immigration, and there will be an increasing demand for labour. There is already an increasing migration within the EU and the EEA. Norway is more than 50 pst. over Sweden in terms of labour migration from the area called EU-10. People from the new Member States make important contributions to securing employment for the Norwegian economy. We can be very grateful to them for their contribution to our economy. At the same time, this raises the challenge of securing labour and at the same time preventing social dumping and exclusion. Neither are flows of migration managed without a development policy that alleviates the distress and poverty that create migration. Work on managing migration flows is therefore part of the policy on development, democracy and stability and combating poverty. Norway is invited to participate in the development of the EU’s global approach to migration. We're positive to this. It gives us the opportunity to participate early in policy-making and in cooperation on development measures and engagement in the country of origin and transit of migrants. Our relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement and participation in judicial and domestic cooperation provide us with a good basis for dialogue with the EU in such policy areas. The EEA and participation in research programmes are also a framework for cooperation on labour immigration. All such frameworks are a prerequisite for meeting the common European and global challenges. In sum, it is interesting to note that ‘in foreign policy, Norway and the EU are in line with most issues, as Norway’s commitment to the EU’s foreign policy declarations is one expression’ — to quote an analysis by the Norwegian Institute for Foreign Policy. But this isn't the whole picture in a globalized world. We still lack satisfactory institutional frameworks in some areas that enable us to interact effectively, democratically and jointly. The need for strong international organisations is paradoxical, while in some environments there is little trust in these organisations. Perhaps this is one of the greatest democratic and foreign policy challenges we face today as politicians. The EU has come a long way in achieving effective economic, legal and political cooperation. We still need to be closely connected to this – in addition to extensive EEA cooperation and Schengen. Because there are major tasks that need to be solved, and common to many of them, the EU, yes Europe, is expected to take a leading role in meeting the challenges. For this reason, it is in Norway's interest, and for the rest of the world – that the EU has an effective decision-making system. The backbone here is that globalisation in the economy and in communication has gone further and faster than the globalisation of policy. As EU foreign coordinator Javier Solana expressed it in a speech in Washington this March: Global governance is a terrible expression, but a very important concept. We need it for a simple – and most real – reason: the interdependence. He went on to say, "All in all, our ability to analyze the problems is good. But even when we agree on what needs to be done, we can't translate this consensus into practical results. It is in Norway’s interest that global governance tools exist, in a world characterised by increasing interdependence, of challenges that can only be met and managed jointly, in solidarity. We may still be used to thinking of the European Union as an internal market, such as the EC, even as an EEC. However, the EU is much larger, extensive, enlarged, and an important global player in foreign policy arenas. Our ties to this cooperation are more and more dense. We share the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e349	The President regrettably overlooked the fact that the representative, Ms Søreide, should have tabled a draft representative at the opening of the meeting. With all possible humility, and in the hope of forgiveness, the President will ask if Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide will now promote that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e352	It is a great pleasure at last to be able to present representative proposals on behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen, Kari Lise Holmberg, André Oktay Dahl, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself on concrete measures for enhanced school management.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e357	The President sees this as a forgiveness. The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will now propose that, on the basis of Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, a comment round be opened, but that the second paragraph of Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure be waived so that one representative from each party group may have the floor once for up to 10 minutes and the Foreign Minister receives a final statement of up to 10 minutes if he so wishes. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e366	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good, thorough and informative presentation. There is a good basis for good government-to-growth talks on increasingly important foreign policy issues. I assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not need to confirm the Workers' Party's support for the Government's line in most of the policy areas that the Minister of Foreign Affairs raised, so I have chosen a slightly more general perspective. My starting point is the same as the Secretary of State suggested: the world has become smaller. We're becoming more and more dependent on each other. It again calls for good and often new forms of cooperation for political and democratic action on an increasingly complex social development. More and more aspects of Norwegian society are being involved in the processes that take place on the continent through EU cooperation, through the EEA Agreement and through bilateral cooperation areas with the EU such as justice, defence and security policies. Norway's closer links with the EU are not least noted in the EEA Committee on Foreign Affairs and the EEA Committee. We are being sent large-scale bunkers with directives to be adopted and approved by the Norwegian Storing. As EU-related issues become more important and comprehensive, we have therefore also wanted a broader policy base for Norway’s European policy. We received this through the recent European communication. And we wanted the country's elected representatives to be more closely involved. Many refer to Norwegian values of community and solidarity. Of course it is not wrong. But it would be more correct to refer to humanistic values of community and solidarity, values that are rooted in centuries of European history. Our continent knows more than any other importance of having a clear focus on human development and peaceful coexistence. Our history has taught us to protect just these values. When that does not happen, we have experience of inhumane tendencies and totalitarian forces beating roots. Protecting these interests here at home, in Europe and in the world is our task as modern democrats. And such protection can only be achieved through strong democratic structures both at home and internationally. It is difficult to imagine such a peaceful development we have had in Europe in the last 60 years, if we had not established a clear political framework and tools for conversation and discussion and not confrontation and conflict. And history shows how linked and dependent we as a nation are to the political and economic development of the continent. The European Union is a political structure in which political contradictions are broken. In such forums, of course, it is a political struggle for the Hegemonia and the political momentum. So you could say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, But this is at least a clear democratic move we also know at home. But the political struggle is not always as visible. The European Union can be bureaucratic and insurmountable. The scepticism of the EU is high in Europe, many of which are increasing. However, in parallel with the fact that the scepticism of the EU is high and the scepticism of policies in general is increasing in many countries, the need for supranational and committed political cooperation is greater than ever, not least as illustrated by our environmental and climate challenges. It is a major political challenge, given our clear need for international cooperation, to bring international and supranational organisations closer to people. In a completely different way than in the past, we need to be able to connect the local to the global, the regional, to the national. It is also trying to do so by the EU. EU Commissioner Margot Wallström announced last week plans to establish his own European political foundations to help strengthen the political debate at EU level. The idea is to give European political parties such as the European People’s Party, the European Socialists or the European Liberals greater opportunity to develop networks aimed at European issues. All ten European parties have a somewhat undefined role. They are trans-European, but they do not relate to citizens because national parties are associated with the European, not individual members. Wallström's initiative is commendable. It should oblige us, as Norwegian politicians, to engage us more in the political debates in and about Europe and the EU – because it concerns Norway, because it concerns our own continent, and because it is part of our own ambitions in the European Communication to strengthen the attachment of the Norwegian political parties to the Europeans. As in Norway, combating social exclusion is one of the most important policy areas across Europe. Combating social exclusion requires a high level of employment, the elimination of poverty, better family relationships and the strengthening of social areas. Strong voluntary organisations and activities in civil society are also key elements in preventing social exclusion. The EU has focused on economic and competition aspects. It might have been a too strong one-sided focus on these, but it's changing. The social dimension of the European Union has focused primarily on workers’ rights, equality and social and economic relations through the Structural Funds, but with increasing integration, this focus has expanded to include a number of issues such as increased employment, social security, social dialogue and the fight against discrimination and social exclusion. When there was a majority of EU-left governments at the end of the 1990s, a new social strategy called the ‘Lisbon Strategy’ was drawn up. The aim was to ensure a Europe of solidarity, when the EU faced increasing global competition and major enlargement processes. The Lisbon EU Summit in December 2000 adopted an agenda setting out concrete social priorities for the future, the main objective of which is to make Europe competitive, sustainable and based on social justice. The aim was to establish social and economic policies as equivalent and mutually dependent policy areas. This strongly reminds us of our own political objectives here at home. It has been one of the main concerns of the Euro-LO that there has just been an imbalance between economic and social policies. The Euro-LO sees the Lisbon Strategy, with the integration of economic and social policies, as a turning point. The Labour Party supports the social dialogues in Europe. A prerequisite for doing so is to strengthen trade unions across the continent. Only with strong trade unions working together on overall objectives, such as full employment, equal opportunities and safe working conditions, can the Union achieve its ambitious objectives of a strong commitment to an inclusive and economically strong knowledge society. In 2002, EU leaders defined the European social model to be based on good economic performance with strong social security networks, lifelong learning and social dialogue between workers and employers. So we share with the rest of Europe the same social core values and concerns for the same basic problems. European countries face many of the same challenges, although both the starting point and the conditions for meeting them vary greatly. What has gradually begun to be referred to as the ‘European model’ is a combination of market economy, social security and solidarity. Ensuring the welfare state is also a major challenge in Norway. However, ensuring our welfare models towards globalisation, population change and technological development requires strong international and supranational action. We have the oil. It does not have the European Union. But many of our challenges at home are similar to those in many EU countries. Close cooperation in Europe to ensure a stable, democratic and social future is therefore likely to be as crucial for us as for all the other European countries. Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, has important experiences and ideas to point to — with our experience of the so-called Nordic social model. An interesting question addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the United Kingdom is what room for action and what action Norway has, given the trends we see here at home and in Europe and the world. No matter what we may have to say about Norwegian EU membership, the few are against the EU as an institution. Most people believe that the EU has undoubtedly contributed to stabilising the European continent and has actively contributed to its development. We are also dealing with the European Union. We regard the EU as a partner and as a catalyst for decisive cross-border action in a number of policy areas. The EU is a crucial economic area for Norway and for the Norwegian economy. We have secured our economic connection through the EEA Agreement. In the investigation and design processes, we participate at the level of red tape, but not at the level of policy. It's a choice the Norwegian people have made. And that's a choice that the Workers' Party here is based on. The government has set up a more open and inclusive European policy. We believe that there are opportunities for more influence in a more systematic and active European policy. This is how we can respond better to national interests, but we can also better participate in the debates on the development of European societies, based on several common challenges and common values. Through the examination of the European Communication, we have been given a common political basis to pursue a more active policy towards the EU and Europe. It has also become clear through the treatment of the Stortinget that the Stortinget wants a more active role in its ongoing European policy. It's also shown here today. In the Norwegian public, there is little European debate – apart from the intense membership discussions in the context of referendums and some individual directives. It would certainly have been a sign of health if, with this statement, we could have promised important discussions on the development and future of Europe and the European Union linked to our own development and future on the public agenda. Europe's debates must be engaged. European debates shall be engaged. The European issue is about developments in Volda, in Krakow and in Europe as a whole. With this statement, the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have provided a good basis for the revitalisation of debates on our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e427	Despite the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs represents a government that initially bursts violently in its approach to Europe, he has the power to provide a statement that not only contains interesting reflections but in important areas puts out the course in the future. I'm positively surprised. There was a absence of simple political slogans and whispers, and it was liberating in such a long and broad account. And the frank recognition of the EU as a democratic builder was important. We also share the view of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this possibility to discuss European issues in more detail is positive. If the form – an explanation and then just a comment – is one way we're going to continue, we're going to have to discuss it in the future. There might be other approaches to that very thing, for perhaps also to draw the Big One into a broader framework. It is natural for me to start by commenting on the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, which was celebrated earlier this year. It gives the opportunity to reflect on what the European Community and its future EU have meant and will mean for the European continent in the future, as a stabilisation factor and as a continuous peace process. Although we cannot agree on whether Norway is worthy of membership, or stand outside – I am very pleased that this is not the debate we are going into – there is every reason to be pleased with the existence of the European Union and the political leadership that was expelled when the Treaty of Rome was signed. In the statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs points out that we are going to strengthen the work of the Norwegian side towards the EU's capitals, and, as we understand it, not bet that all influence is going to take place through Brussels. This is very good, and something that we particularly took up in the previous magnification period. We have recorded that there is always an impressive job being done by Norwegian foreign service in Brussels, but we have experienced – and that is our experience – that there has not always been the same intensity in the work aimed at EU issues in the various capitals. This small rotation of focus is absolutely necessary. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also calls for a more strategic approach to the promotion of Norwegian interests. I will allow myself to refer to something that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘We need to think and work more strategically in our relationship with the EU and the Member States, and we should give better priority between the issues we choose to pursue.’ This is very important. We couldn't say it any better ourselves. That's a good signal. We are responding to the activity to which it is put on a broad scale, in order to promote important national interests in the face of the outside world, and in particular the EU countries. EU-US relations are now on the agenda of several presidencies. Germany has, among other things: tried to look at the possibility of wider trade cooperation between the EU and the United States. We agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is absolutely in our interest that cooperation between the EU and the United States is the best possible. We also believe that it is important for Norway and EFTA to follow closely the trade policy discussions between the EU and the United States, and perhaps to help position Norway in such a context. We are fully aware that there are many obstacles here, and many of these are in the United States. But for our business, it will be essential that we do not have worse market conditions on the American market than our neighbours. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is referring to the Atlantic links in positive terms. Now that we see the EU facing westwards in a strengthened sense — at least this may be the case, and not least after France chose Sarkozy as President, who had just that as part of its platform — we challenge the Government whether it is not time to address a new enquiry from Norway to the White House and see to it that our own Prime Minister has a meeting with the U.S. President. We have recorded that not many weeks ago the Swedish Prime Minister made such a visit. We believe that such a visit, as we see it, is also about caring for our interests on the European continent. We depend on the United States as a close ally, just as the Foreign Minister stresses. We are in favour of Schengen cooperation. We think it's positive. We want to address something that is affected by it, which we have focused on in the past, namely the costs of a Schengen visa. This may appear to be a small trifle, but in the revised state budget, the Government comes with information that costs will increase significantly. In other contexts, we have talked about the need for people to exchange people. Not least for people from Russia, but also for young people from, for example: Belarus to visit Schengen countries, we see that this is now becoming more difficult. We're somewhat disappointed in that. This is not something that Norway alone can decide, but it might be interesting to hear, if not by this crossroads, then on another occasion, whether Norway has raised these issues in the relevant forums where decisions have been taken. The relationship with Russia is one of the most exciting things at the moment. It is, as we experience it, a balanced representation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. There is no doubt that developments within Russia and its external relations with Russia are marked by developments in many different directions. You can quickly be defeated by some relationships, but it's essential that we have as good and close cooperation as possible along many different axes. At least for our part, we would stress that there is no alternative to close and broad cooperation with Russia. Should I ask for something in today's presentation, there must be something more about the current situation – to say it this way – that was referred to with regard to our cooperation on the Kola Peninsula on nuclear issues, or the lack of cooperation, if you like. The newspaper reading of the last few days has been anything but a whimsical one. It could be useful if the Minister of Foreign Affairs informed the Stortinget about how the Norwegian authorities look at it. One detail in this is what has emerged, that the Norwegian authorities should not be allowed to look at a map that we have funded ourselves, which for an outsider seems incomprehensible. What is the Norwegian attitude to this? Nordic cooperation is now becoming more prominent, including in the field of security policy. We think that is very positive. We are pleased that we have an agreement with Iceland, and we look forward to a close dialogue, especially with Sweden. We note that this cooperation is about the EU 'Battle Groups' and it is about Afghanistan. But we hope that the security policy challenges we have here in Scandinavia will also be naturally integrated into this cooperation. We believe – despite the fact that Sweden is not in NATO, and we are not in the EU – that here we can find interesting and practical ways of cooperating in the community we have here in the Nordic region. Then, perhaps, the Foreign Minister is addressing one of the most exciting debates in Europe at the moment, and that is the challenges associated with Turkey's relationship with the EU. We recognize that it is demanding. For us, it is important to stress that the issues here are much more than just labour immigration and a threat to EU agricultural policy. Key opportunities for security and energy policy are opening up. Turkey as a secularised society can in many ways appear as a model for many other countries. At least we hope that we don't get there that this will be a debate in which feelings are allowed to rule to a great extent. We believe it is important to look at what we have in front of us, and we believe that membership for Turkey will challenge the European Union in some fundamental areas, in good and bad. Nevertheless, it will be long before this issue is fully updated, and both the EU and Turkey have a long way to go. We do not agree that because we are outside the EU's decision-making processes on this, we should not raise our views. As a full-fledged participant in the internal market and a significant financial support player, not least for the new Member States of the European Union, we expect to be taken on board. We should at least let our views be heard. We will also stress that the EEA Agreement is the cornerstone of our European cooperation. We record, of course, that the Soria Moria declaration rings around this, but that we are now also talking about the EEA agreement not only as a fact, but also how positive it is. That's what we think is good and important signals from the sitting government. We record – that is more of a confession – that EFTA is not mentioned in one word in the statement. Maybe we'll get back to a little bit later today. Then there were many other issues that were addressed in this very comprehensive presentation. We don't essentially have any other approaches than what the government has, but when the issues of climate and migration come back to the Storting in more detail, we will come back to our own positions in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e468	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good, thorough, thought-provoking and premissive statement. I noticed the wording that one must be more concerned with reflection than with reflection. This is also reflected in the approach of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and we very much appreciate that. Like Morten Höglund, I assume that the format of these presentations and this kind of debate is something we'll come back to, but that it's done this way this time, we think it's okay. We would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for being familiar with the content of the statement before it was held. It will give the debate a good structure, I hope. For its part, the right sees international cooperation as the answer to many of today's challenges. The national Member State is too small to address a number of the problems that citizens face in their everyday lives. Organised crime, terrorist activity, environmental pollution and globalisation of the economy are some examples of areas in which the national State alone does not have sufficient means. We need to go together with other countries in order to find common policy responses to such challenges, and the EU includes the vast majority of countries in our neighbourhoods and will today – and in the years to come – be the main framework for European cooperation. In the absence of an EU membership, the EEA Agreement is our umbilical cord to Europe. It goes without saying that for Norway it is important that the EU and the EEA work well and that the EU is effective for its part. The EEA Agreement works well in the areas in which it was intended to cover, as also stated in the statement. That's also our opinion. However, it limits the ability to find good solutions when the EU develops new areas of cooperation and new forms of cooperation, and it is also part of the theme of the presentation. EU cooperation is developing in areas partially or not covered at all by the EEA Agreement, such as: equality, racism, climate policy and employment. I think it is interesting to read the Foreign Minister’s assessments of how Norway can participate in activities that are important to us, especially considering networks of bilateral relations — to put it that way. I believe what has been said here about understanding political trends in individual countries, which in turn are the premise for developments and new directions in the EU's work, is absolutely crucial, but it is clear that it requires broad contact. It is a major task, not least to focus on the consequences for conditions of Norwegian interest. And who is it? The Foreign Minister gave some examples. I can add some. I think it is relevant to point out, as was also done in the statement, that under Portugal's presidency there are some common interests between our countries, among others. in the case of seas and coasts, which are central areas, and not least, perhaps, the development of EMSA’s tasks – EMSA, which is, of course, located in just Lisbon. Following the further development of Schengen and neighbouring areas, we are committed to the fact that everything related to the police – Interpol, a joint anti-terrorism cooperation in Europe – must also become a matter where Norway is too fully involved, as we are in the Schengen context, and that we do not become a side partner. This also applies to asylum and migration policy, which is fully mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also think it is a topic that illustrates how important it will be that one comes to political clarifications first, and not least that it is one of the issues that will be important in the cooperation between the Government and the Storting, so that policy is clarified before our office goes out and does its important part of the job. I would also like to mention energy and the environment, because it is inappropriate that from a Norwegian point of view, it may seem quite paradoxical that the country with the largest energy resources in the EEA area places very limited premises on policy-making. However, it underlines the importance of engaging in the European debate in this area. Norway, with its unique energy resources, its broad competence and its long experience of open power markets and high attention to climate issues, has the best prospects for contributing to the further development of a European climate and energy policy. In the common comments in the settings of St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006 all the political parties agree that: ‘The EU has played an important, stabilising role in Europe over the last half century, and that the EU has contributed to economic development and interpersonal contact. The EU has influenced and promoted democracy in many previous dictatorships and continues to have a positive impact on the democratic development of several states through its enlargement’. A better political certificate is hard to imagine. I think it is particularly gratifying that both the SV and the Central Party so strongly recognise the EU's efforts for peace and stability in our neighbourhoods. This seems to be a cross-political consensus. It was not obvious that all Eastern and Central European countries would go in a democratic direction after the fall of the Wall. EU membership has just contributed to the fact that the pendulum has turned for the benefit of democracy. The desire for EU membership has also led these countries to make an effort to fulfil fundamental human rights, including: by respecting ethnic minorities within their borders. Just the EU's demands for Member States to become members in the fields of democracy development, the rule of law and the market economy are important. It is important not only to become a member but also to continue as a claim to all members when they are inside. In other words, you have to watch your follow-up. In the most recent example, we remember that Bulgaria, and perhaps not least Romania, had some problems with some of the demands that were made on them before they got as far as membership, for example. on transparency in financial management, economics and corruption. It is my hope that Norway can contribute to the follow-up to how such requirements are complied with in retrospect, because we should have an influence through the role we have, among other things. as a financial contributor. But this is also essential in future enlargements and scenarios. One might imagine an EU that is growing bigger and perhaps larger because one is loosening up a little, or perhaps becoming more limited because one is still on precise demands. We, for our part, believe that the latter is essential, which other speakers have also been involved in. The common basis of values in the EU must be one of the most important glues we have. I don't have time to go into the Russia issue, which is mentioned quite fully in the presentation, but I just want to conclude by saying that we agree to develop cooperation in all areas with Russia. We have recently discussed this in other contexts. But it is not particularly relevant here to go along with our basic European principles of democracy and the development of the rule of law. I agree with the Foreign Minister's considerations about Turkey's possible membership, which could also be a bridge builder in relation to the Middle East, and which is an example – as I believe it is very important that one could be shown in practice – that it is possible to combine democracy according to the Western model with Muslim culture. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is essential for Norway that the EU sets the strengthening of transatlantic links as an important objective, with a stronger focus on Europe-US relations. In our opinion, this is unfavorably positive, but at the same time a challenge to participate in the common European policy design that will be presented in NATO. Here we have a challenge. I would just like to remind you that the Committee's comments on the European Communication also show that Norway has the opportunity to join declarations, opinions and démarches drawn up within the framework of common foreign and security policy in the EU. One has encouraged the Government to provide the Storting with an overview of such connections at regular intervals. We meet in the further work and in the development of co-operation between magnification and government how one intends to follow up that information. Having said all of this, I would like to thank you again for a thought-provoking statement and for the certainty of remembering – if anyone were in any doubt about it – that, in the opinion of the Right, we would probably best meet all these challenges and opportunities through full membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e508	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good distribution among many. In this very broad distribution, the most interesting thing is said in relation to where the EU goes, which goes on the extension and the depth – that is, the old discussion about the federal and the confederal. I felt that the Foreign Minister suggested that something new was happening on the track – that it is possible to get an extension and at the same time go deep. Normally, we have thought that, in the worst or best cases, the EU will eventually move from being a Union to becoming an international agreement. But I felt that the Foreign Minister said that it is possible to go deep too when an increase in the number of members. Not least, I experienced that he said it in relation to expanding by e.g. Turkey. So there's a question that we haven't mentioned today. Fewer and fewer times, the term is referred to as'superstat' and it becomes too transnational. I see that width can also have a good deal of positive moves in more areas. I'll just take an example from a little trip with the football team to my son to Spain just before Easter. Of course, we didn't come to Spain, we came to Catalonia. Gutane hadn't even started playing before we got to talking to the old callers there. In the 1930s, they were not allowed to speak Catalan. Now they're going in Catalan. These were 80-year-olds. Some go so far as to say that they want to create a new nation state. One has had an incredible economic growth in what we call the Europe of the Regions. Here, I think we should follow very closely up here in the north. This has given many good results elsewhere. The EU will be so large that one must dare to split it up without any threat. One doesn't have to be there either, it turns out. Last week we had a Nordic defence cooperation, a good agreement between the Swedish and Norwegian Defence Minister. The Foreign Minister himself has done good for other forms of cooperation, I will not go into it that much. There is no doubt that good opportunities have been found here for us who are not EU members. One sees this in regions in such a way that it's in the best interests of everyone in that region. By its width, a broader team of the people also thinks, and I see that in the EU there is no fear of taking over well enough the results of the referendum in relation to the constitution osb. Then a little bit turns around on the tactic. This goes a little bit counter to taking the width, taking with the people as much as possible. We also see another kind of width – that one takes on more of it to be able to control by law. We see in part that the environment – which is a target that needs to be guaranteed the same, and perhaps the very best guaranteed by law, or at least sometimes the best guaranteed by law – comes in a better way, in my opinion, by the fact that a let environment also leads a kind of liberalism where one does not want one to take care of the environment. It's also a width that I welcome. Then we also see that when a person does not go in width, but – as the Foreign Minister says – goes directly to those who have the Presidency, and there are trying to get the Norwegian presentation of our own interests, it becomes more useful. Perhaps this will also make the EU debate more topical in society – people get a relationship with this, and that means something to us. On the same football trip that I referred to before, it went so far that our good supervisor at Frigg football said everyone had to have a passport. I immediately replied that no passport needed, including a certificate. Gutane was only 14 years old, so they didn't have certificates, but they got pictures and ID, that's good. People weren't aware of that, so everyone had passports. They did not know that one could travel to Spain without a passport. The dialogue and information on what is happening in the EU will serve both a possible yes page and a no page in many ways. I see a challenge in relation to modern democracy, because we always expect economic growth to be very effective in terms of social bullying and in the fight against poverty. In our own country, even – there is hardly any country that has had such a huge economic growth – former Prime Minister Odvar Nordli and you yourself, President, have well gone out and warned and said that we must all have, we cannot do this. Economic growth is in no way a guarantee of social dumping and poverty. This is my main objection to the fact that one in the EU does not take over its width. So we are talking about a simplified treaty for the Union, which will be held at the end of June, primarily in order to avoid new referendums. After all, France and the Netherlands had the new Constitutional Treaty died in a way, and in a way also left the federal death. That and forward was equidistant. At my discretion, the democratic deficit came out clearly. Here I thought Norway could go ahead and – e.g. During the discussion of the Services Directive – get an impact report, and of course also have a broad and open debate, because we are so dependent on people knowing what this is all about. There is no doubt that we in Norway have very many good actors, who are fully able to sign up for the EU debate. In More and Romesdal, my own country, business has been good. Gunvor Ulstein has said every year that the foreign workers must be allowed to come here, we must be allowed to send them home whenever we want, and we must allow them to pay what we want. This we know is unsustainable. She repeated this most recently 14 days ago at a meeting in the NHO, where the Prime Minister was also present. It would be unsustainable for SV to accept this. That is why the Services Directive must be thoroughly transposed. We know that LO's representation in February called for the Government to take its position on the Services Directive only after they have submitted a thorough impact assessment on the impact of the Services Directive in Norway, and after a new and final hearing round. Of course, LO is particularly concerned with the effects of work and the potential to solve social tasks through the public sector. I think, in a way, the LO Decision means that the debate is being lifted away from sloppy legal considerations and into a more diverse social debate. If the impact assessment is to win crooked, it cannot be designed in the departments. It will be decisive whether he is based on recordings and analyses from an independent research environment. Fafo made a report last year on cross-border work. He gives a good start to such an impact statement. He notes that short-term service mobility has become the dominant form of labour mobility in central parts of the world of work. I would also like to quote from the report, which says: ‘Experience from many European countries shows that precisely this type of volatile service mobility is the most difficult to control and is therefore the form of mobility most exposed to low-wage competition, the circumvention of laws and contractual arrangements and the avoidance of taxes and charges.’ It is in this social reality that we should release the Services Directive. It is therefore up to this reality that the directive needs to be reviewed. We also know that those in Sweden, who are members of the EU, have a case that has gone a long way between Laval/Vaxholm, where the Swedish Minister of Labour rightly says that if this is to be approved, it will mean an eradicating of Swedish labour standards and Swedish legislation in this area. We have to take this seriously, we have to go well into it. Then, in the later years, we have had a great deal of positive impact on the EU. We repractice a classified employer's fee. Not least, there are many gambling addicts who can enjoy the maintenance of the gambling monopoly, and thus have a policy that takes care of those who become addicts – it is decided here in the hall and not by private actors, who themselves will tend to take care of it. Home cases seem to be going our way, and it seems that we can link ourselves to the EU's climate trading scheme in a good way. It's important to be part of a larger system of allowances. It looks like we can take care of the parts of our own allowance scheme that are better than the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e545	We have received a thorough and interesting statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is politically important when the country’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Government, determines that the EEA Agreement has served Norway well. It is also important that he declares faith in the vitalization of Nordic cooperation. It's a vision I share. The Minister for Foreign Affairs initially made a point that there is a danger that individual cases can take over and that we outside the EU can lose the grip on the whole: Where does the EU go, where does Europe, which is now increasingly similar to the EU geographically? To this perspective, I have two immediate comments – one on where the EU is going and one on Europe. I think we're all concerned about seeing the long lines and the big trends. The danger of losing the grip is that the management of the EU itself has experienced. They have been active for a long time to get through an EU constitution. But in the referendums in France and the Netherlands, the populace said no, and the Constitutional Project got a death blow. The issue of where the EU should go and what kind of EU it is to be desired was a major issue. The French and Dutch did not want the EU they were presented to. The debate on what the EU will become continues to shape the EU agenda, but now, in front of the summit at the end of this month, the debate on the chamber among the leaders is largely about whether you can move on without consulting the people. We will probably hear more about this from the EU Summit on 21-22. June, because it marks the foretones of the German Presidency. On this important issue, the EU has been caught up in internal disagreement. Is respect for the two referendums in France and the Netherlands still to be based? Is the Constitution of the Union dead? Or can it be maneuvered into the back way, without referendums, into a slightly fried or shaved edition? We already seem to have seen that EU decision-making problems have not diminished since the enlargement of the Union to 27 Member States. I think we'll get that underlined in the continuation of this discussion as well. My second comment is on the Foreign Minister's point that the European Union is becoming more and more coincident with Europe. I believe it is important, both for the clarity of the analysis and for the fertility of the debate, that we do not contribute to a full mix of these sizes. If two thirds of European countries become members of the European Union, we must not confuse it with Europe. Major European population groups and a number of European countries are outside the EU. The important point is that the dividing lines in Europe are shifted, and it is important that we maintain and develop cooperation across the EU, but also across Europe, otherwise unnecessary differences between, for example, can easily emerge. Russia and the West — both in terms of the EU, NATO and in terms of relations with the United States. The dispute over the rocket shield project has shown the Russian sensitivity to Western positions in countries previously within the Soviet sphere of interest. I'm going to get a little closer to important reflections or deeper insights into big and important issues. The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out that today’s presentation is linked to the Storting’s request for half-yearly presentations on important EU/EEA matters. I think it is with respect to report that today's presentation was somewhat too general and too little on the EU/EEA issue. Thus, the presentation was not different from the form chosen in the general foreign policy presentations. I'm not going to criticize it. That's useful enough, although most of the considerations relate to known issues, which we've sometimes had the opportunity to exchange views on here in the main hall. However, for the future, we must not lose the occasion for such half-yearly EEA statements to address in depth some of the major issues that are under development in the EU, which are EEA-relevant, so that we are given the basis for taking more into account individual areas of cooperation, and not just being at a general and general level of reflection. That is why I intend to spend the rest of my speaking time talking about a matter that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has surprisingly not spoken about, but which is a very central part of the Norwegian European debate, which is also going on in many other European countries, namely the issue of the EU Services Directive. An important aspect of good and democratic treatment of EU/EEA matters is to inform the Storting early, so that elected representatives are informed and thus involved in the process. When the Stortinge addressed this winter’s big business report on European policy, it was an overall foreign committee that underlined the need to bring the Stortinge earlier into the process with regard to the discussion on EEA-related issues. In this way, the Services Directive was an interesting test. Even before Christmas, 21 November, I wrote a letter to the Prime Minister on this directive, which had just been adopted by the European Parliament, asking for a follow-up discussion and a statement. The answer showed that the matter was to be heard, and no explanation was given. In the new year, an overall opposition sent a letter asking for a statement on the Services Directive. Again, the Prime Minister referred to the hearing period — no explanation. A few weeks ago, the matter was taken up in Storting's Question Time. The answer from the Minister of Industry was such that an overall opposition sent a letter again and asked for an explanation. Last Thursday, 31 May, the Minister for Economic Affairs finally made a preliminary statement to the EEA Committee of Storting. It provided a useful review of several aspects of the Directive, but started by stressing that not all questions concerning the Directive were clarified and ended by stating that the «questions raised by the Services Directive will be analysed point by point», and that the Government has not yet come to an end in its assessments of the Directive. I respect that, but I wish that a government, which has then flagged to those degrees that transparency on these issues is its brand, and that debate on foreign policy issues is a strength, would have dared to take an open debate in the Great Britain on the Services Directive and answered positively when an opposition party raises the question. I think it is directly alarming that one does not respond when an overall opposition asks for such an explanation. I do not think that is an expression of wanting to debate, and of wanting transparency, but rather of having such a big problem with this matter internally that you refuse to meet the Storting in an open debate on the matter. For us who are deeply concerned about several aspects of the Services Directive and will not undermine consumers' rights and weaken their efforts towards social dumping, the demand for a thorough and independent impact assessment has been central. This requirement has broad support, not least in professional organisations. Today there is a youth mobilization against the Services Directive outside the house here. I have just received a call with signatures from people in a number of organisations. One of the main requirements of those acting is that a thorough impact assessment of the Services Directive must be carried out. I have to understand – I choose – that the Minister of Industry promised it in his statement to the EEA Committee on Friday. Everyone can be sure of this by visiting the Storting website on the Internet, where the minutes of the EEA Committee’s meeting have already been published. It is a positive consequence of the suspension of a unanimous foreign committee earlier this year, where we stressed that the minutes should be published immediately. In order to strengthen confidence in the impact assessment, I believe it is an advantage to also involve independent expertise, and I hope that the Foreign Minister can confirm that this will be done. It should also be included in the remaining rounds on this matter. The Christian People's Party does not wish to contribute to the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of a service directive which could lead to increased social dumping and other negative consequences. It is therefore essential for us to have a thorough assessment of the impact of the directive. We have noted that a number of critical issues have arisen from professional organisations and from No to the EU regarding several aspects of the directive, including: as regards the implications for competition in the labour market: In practice, it may increase the scope of social dumping in today's European working life.The Court of Justice may decide that national labour law should respect EU law. These are questions from our side. There are questions that need to be clarified through the process that is now under way. There are issues that should be resolved through an open and real debate on these issues. The EEA Agreement provides Norway with a right of reservation that the EU Member States do not have, and we must be prepared to use that right of reservation if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e599	Initially, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough and reflective account and analysis of the situation in the EU and Norway's relationship with the EU. It is a useful review, and it meets the desire to have debates in the Storting in a more transparent way. The form must go to, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. I think we'll get an exciting shape in the future. I note that the representative, Mr Höglund, is surprised that this government has been so clear in its active European policy, despite the fact that it has been defined as a gap in the Government. I agree that it is a pleasure, but it should not be a surprise that the Central Party also recognises the importance of Europe for Norway, even if we do not want to be a member of the European Union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the treatment of St.meld by Storting. No 23 for 2005-2006 on an active European policy. In the comments of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we also noted that European policy has become increasingly domestic policy. I can imagine that, in the future, we can also have European political presentations in full or in part in the words of other governments. And there I can imagine that both the Minister of State and the Minister of Industry can be involved in giving consideration to the challenges they face in their fields. But all in all, I think this is a good start to a new tradition in Stortinget. Never before in the history of the EU/EEA there has been a more active European policy by the Norwegian side. I think I dare say that never has a government challenged the EU on several issues that have been of crucial importance to Norway. I note that ESA has had some challenges in their interpretation of EEA legislation in very important cases. The Soria Moria Declaration is based on the fact that we do not want membership in this period. Although the Central Party wants to leave the EEA and would prefer to have seen a free trade agreement based on the Swiss model, we are pleased that Soria Moria has made an active European policy part of the government's work. The EEA continues to provide us with challenges in Norwegian policy and society. Especially in the field of energy and the environment, and in terms of welfare and control, challenges will be high in the coming years. The centre party is pleased to point out that it is possible to find tailor-made solutions rather than copying legislation, as adopted in the resolution at our national meeting. Some have expressed fears that Norway will be marginalised during the enlargement of the EU and through EU economic cooperation with other regions. I note that our answer is that we have never been stronger, and that we have never had the European Union more in focus than right now. We note that we have a low-buyer market, with an interest in the EU's need for market access. We have natural resources and energy, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says. We cover 15 pst. of the gas and oil needs of the EU. Our contribution has been given further topicality after the winter situation in Belarus and Ukraine, which showed how vulnerable Russia's supplies could be. Without having to beat ourselves too hard on the chest, we can well see that our stability and predictability, and our membership in the EEA, have given us more attention to our own production and delivery. I interpret Minister of Foreign Affairs Steinmeier's advertised visit to North Norway in August as an expression for this. I note that while we are outside, we have a pragmatic relationship with the European Union, which, I believe, is the best for both sides. We have an enviable geographical position towards the Barents Sea with strategic access to rich resources, and we have an independent, bilateral relationship with Russia that gives us flexibility and a good starting point in the neighbourhood. We have recorded with concern what has happened in the relationship between Russia and the EU, and not least in the relationship between the United States and Russia, because of this developing rocket shield. Let me make it clear: there is no change in our position regarding transatlantic cooperation, our relationship with NATO, with the United States, and, incidentally, our relationship with the European Union. But our good neighbourhood and our good dialogue with Russia must be taken care of, and we need to see if we can find the function there – if it adds up – we can be a mediator and a dialogue partner that the parties want to use. In addition, we find that several of our Nordic neighbours, as well as Germany and the Netherlands, often appreciate that Norway challenges both the EU internally and EU policy globally. We often get support and stand as an independent voice that is not marginalised. The EU is making offensive north-eastern policies, knowing that they depend on Norway to succeed. I believe that the forthcoming Portuguese Presidency of the European Union will be of great interest to Norway. So, as the Foreign Minister said, we're going to have a fishing nation in the management team, with 50 pst. of the EU sea area as its national responsibility. It is a small nation, and it is a coastal nation with a significant interest in the fishing industry. We have seen a greater willingness from Portugal than from Spain to address the challenges of fisheries policy we face with resource control, the fight against black fishing, etc. We have common strong interests in the transatlantic links. It'll be exciting. The analysis by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of an EU that is developing less coherently and with a bilateralisation makes it possible for us to develop our space of action in time that may be increasing, and for us to develop our opportunities. We have a potential for influence and influence. Norway's policy, which is conducted as a foreign country, has a form and activity with which the Central Party can live, but we see that there are still many unsolved tasks, and that EEA acts and directives that we get have a major impact on our democracy and political space for action, our social, environmental and industrial policies. We must, as the Foreign Minister said, be clear in our priorities in the diversity that comes, pick out the matters that are most important to us and be clear in our voice. Let me mention repatriation, housing and the industrial power regime as issues that the government has been working on and is still working on, and that are important to us. I'm just going to be brief in the Services Directive: there we need to have thorough impact assessments before we move on. Finally, I would like to say that it is important for Norway to be involved and to keep up with developments in Europe. I think that if we follow that line as a designated foreign minister, we get it very busy and exciting in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e635	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a wide presentation, from Nordic countries to Western Balkans, Russia and Portugal. The left is concerned with the rapid and wide-ranging development of the EU, and this is not least about integrating new Eastern European countries into the Union, which means that the EU is helping to break down old dividing lines in Europe. This can have a major impact on our relationship with the European Union, regardless of the future form of association. It is therefore important not to put a lid on the Norwegian debate on the EU. The left wants a broad, open and popular debate. We wish, among other things: to explain what opportunities and limitations the EU's further development gives us, and how we can enter into new partnerships with the EU, including: as regards, for example: the northern regions. In such a light it is very elevating that all the parts of the Stortinget have stood behind St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, on the implementation of European policy. A politically unanimous Norway has been in favour of more transparency, more debate, more policy and more influence. Today’s statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is one of several measures to do just that. I would like to thank him for providing a good overview of key developments in the EU. They will put heavy weights on Norwegian European policy, and they will have a lot to say about how much we are going to get for our EEA agreement. He also points to new areas such as climate and energy, migration and development. What I missed in the presentation was a more EEA aspect. I fully agree that we are facing a stream of individual cases and legal acts, and that if you deepen too much in them, you can quickly lose sight of it. This is part of our political everyday life at Stortinget, and I suppose elsewhere too, but I would like to remind you that the intention of the presentation was to focus on important EU and EEA issues. I also refer to the theme of the High Commissioner on the Services Directive. I realize that today's presentation is the first of its kind, and that therefore such statements have not found their final form. In the course of this discussion, I would like to propose an increased focus on EEA issues. Indeed, an important aspect of the EEA Strategy of the Government is the identification of key EEA issues at the earliest possible time, in order to maximise their influence. The statement should therefore summarise the issues identified by the Government. Furthermore, the statement should indicate what the Government believes about these matters and, where appropriate, how it will prioritise them. I do not expect the views of the Government to be fully clarified, but it points to the main political aspects. I believe that this will make an important contribution to the vitalisation and concreteisation of the debate on EEA and EU issues in Norway. For Norway, there is no doubt much to be gained from improving the effectiveness of their work on EEA matters. Increased knowledge, agreed positions, long-termity and addressing issues at an early stage are important keywords here. The EEA Strategy of the Government can play a central role here. At the same time, it's important not to be naive. We should all realise that there are clear limitations to the Norwegian influence in Brussels, no matter how well the work on EEA matters is organised in Norway. I would like to mention here that when Norway was allowed to implement a system of geographically differentiated employer fees, Norwegian influence was hardly due to Brussels, but that the new EU country Slovenia – with two million inhabitants – wanted this. The possibilities for us to exert influence in Brussels are, in fact, small. The Government has its meetings and consultation arrangements. Furthermore, we have a democratic channel that goes through the Stortinget to the European Parliament. We also have a corporate channel where the business partners and NGOs have their representation offices in Brussels. In addition, we can play on our energy card and refer to our fishing resources. Last, but not least, we can do a thorough homework and quiet with good arguments and suggestions. In sum, this gives us the opportunity for influence, but we should be sober here. Norway is rarely left far up on the EU’s case map. I would like to point out that EU enlargement to 27 countries, and perhaps even more in the future, means that the EU needs to focus more on internal processes. The new Member States will require increased attention and a more complex cooperation structure will be at the forefront of the new Constitution. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his presentation a bilateralisation of internal cooperation, new internal alliances and an integration at different speeds. It can therefore become an even more demanding exercise for Norway to be seen and heard in Brussels in the future. I therefore missed the fact that the Foreign Minister’s statement relates to the description of the overall trends in the EU to the EEA. The question is how developments in the EU will affect Norway’s future opportunities to exercise influence in the EU and the outcome of important EEA issues for us. Finally, I would like to point out that the European Union and the EEA face new challenges. Even today, a democratic deficit exists by the adoption of EEA cases on a continuous basis in the United Kingdom without any real political treatment. The EEA reality of many Norwegian politicians is that they are regularly presented with a pile of EEA cases with a comprehensive dossier. This is mostly of a technical and bureaucratic nature, which makes it inconvenient for most people to get through the bunkers. As a result, a certain degree of automation has been achieved in dealing with EEA matters. The result is that a wide range of directives are incorporated into Norwegian laws and regulations without any political treatment. In some cases, responsible politicians may in this way fail to take responsibility for matters they support but for which they do not want to take political responsibility. The left has in the treatment of St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, on the implementation of European policy, emphasised the importance of measures that will make EEA work more open and accessible and strengthen the possibility of participation. This applies not least to those who do not have large organisations in their backs, or a lot of money with which they can pay lobbyists. Anyone affected by a new EEA legislation should initially have the opportunity to make their views known, including those with small financial resources. As much as possible should be involved in debates on important EEA issues. Matters of great importance and fundamental importance should be raised and debated here in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e675	I would like to thank you for the speeches and the debate. The format has to find its shape, but I notice that the majority of those who made posts seem that this angle was interesting. It is not that we automatically miss the heated EU battle before 1994, but I have to say that I miss the hall before 1994. When there was a debate about the EU then, it was never empty hall. There was a full hall, there was pretty good pressure in all lodges, and you had democracy in full exercise here in the Storting. It's just that it's changed. As for the format of this statement, I took it up with the EEA Committee last week to air some thoughts, and I felt that I received some guidance there. What I think we have to try to figure out -- this is what the presidency and the committee have to make sense of -- is whether there's going to be a coincidence between what we're doing in that committee and what we're doing here. Because I understand that what we are doing in this committee is having quite detailed reviews of individual cases and how Norway assesses them and gets feedback. I see here in the Chamber now that these are about the same members that I met in the Committee last week. It should be interesting, I think, to try to raise the debate a little when we first meet in the open room – and so on not only talking to each other, but also talking to a wider public – although, as the representative Højbrätten said, the minutes of the meetings of the committee are now public. I'm fully open to, and the government is searching for, finding shape and device. So a few comments on interesting considerations from the games. I believe that the representative of Bjørnstad is at some point, which I also tried to get into, the dilemma in Europe between the need for transnationalism in order to solve the problems and the problem of anchoring in democracy for those solutions. There it is quite obvious, as I also said: it is in the Member States, among people, that there is both a brake and an acceleration for how cooperation can develop. The proposal from Commissioner Wahlstrom on support for slightly wider foundations is interesting. During a visit to Germany, I became familiar with what Germany has as a system, namely that the large party fractions are supported by extensive foundations such as the leaders, the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, the Ebert Foundation, etc., a quite detailed public support to keep those networks informed. It's interesting at a European level. To the representative, Mr Höglund, I would like to say a few things in response to his questions. In the case of a Schengen visa, Norway took a clear stand against the almost doubling of that price. It has become more expensive because of these biometric passports, and then you follow the policy that there should be the cost of getting a passport that determines the price of getting it. We hope it goes in the right direction. In the case of Kola, I can't spend much time on it now except to say that it's an international partnership that needs to solve the very serious problem of the irresponsible storage of nuclear fuel. We must make progress in that partnership, be impatient. Of course, the Prime Minister will take this up during his talks both in Murmansk, Moscow and St. Petersburg. The British are responsible for the actual transport and storage of this waste. We have to keep them motivated and inside. That such a map is not made available to us is problematic, and we have to work on it all the way. But at least it is an improvement that there is now a better map, which the Russian authorities can also use when, after all, they have to take a primary responsibility for how they clean up. Otherwise, I think it was uplifting to hear the positive assessment of the view of Turkish membership by the Progress Party. I think these are attitudes that it is important that Norway has. As the representative, Mr Höglund, said, it cannot be simplified for agriculture or migration. It is a major civilisation issue how Europe will act here. The representative of Vallersnes expressed the wish to get a little more insight into this with démarcher. It might be interesting if we can systematize it a little bit and come back to Storting in a suitable way to share the information, because it's going to happen on an ongoing basis, and one may often need to get a summary. I just want to make a comment to Mr Jacobsen's representative. When he reflects around the Europe of the regions and his experience from Spain, there is some of the same thing with the northern regions as with the region, Barentsscooperation, which we must try to enter into the Europe of the regions and extract, not least, resources. As regards the Laval/Vaxholm case, as I mentioned last week in the EEA Committee, the Advocate-General of the EU has now given a clear opinion on the right to collective labour when the aim is not to distort trade but to protect acquired rights. It's important, and slot machine is important. There are important examples of the impact on values that we're concerned with. I notice the representative's vision. The Minister of Industry gave a comprehensive presentation last week of the status with which the EEA Committee was satisfied. I just think I'd say that when we haven't chosen to make a statement, it's out of respect for the fact that over 100 different hearing opinions have come in. A few more have come from the same type of operator, but at least there are a 60-70 different. We're processing them now. In addition to the Minister of Industry's last week, the representative can be sure that we will come back broadly to this matter here in Stortinget in an inclusive way. Finally, I would like to say that it is clear that Norway, as a democracy, an integrated state in Europe, must have ambitions for European policy. I believe we have that through the big news, the committee's attitude, the discussion here and the articles that have been expressed. But as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would like to say that we are not going to have any illusions. At least we shouldn't dream into a situation where having ambitions in itself gives us influence in a community we have chosen not to be a member of. I have had many positive experiences over the 18 months that I have been responsible for, that we are being listened to, we are being heard, and we are getting access, but we are not members. We don't have the right to vote, and we're really, like that, at best, no. 28, even though in many contexts we can get higher, because we have interesting things to contribute to. But there's nothing else to do but get up early and get late and work on this. I agree with the representative Samuelsen’s view that we get it very busy, but also exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e705	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on important EU/EEA matters be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e721	The task of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee is to discuss the development of the EFTA and EEA Agreement and other European policy issues. It shall also act as a consultative body to the EFTA Council of Ministers. In the context of the two EFTA Ministerial Meetings this year, a separate meeting is held between the Members of Parliament and the members of the Government of the EFTA States. A separate meeting is also held between the Members of Parliament and the EFTA Advisory Committee on Social Partners. The EEA Parliamentary Committee shall contribute, through dialogue and debate, to a better understanding between the EU and EFTA States. The Committee may express its views in the form of reports or resolutions. Each meeting discusses the development of the EEA Agreement and the follow-up to resolutions adopted previously. I would like to point out that it is important for Norway to use all available arenas to exploit the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement. The parliamentary dimension is becoming increasingly important here. I would further point to Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, on the implementation of European policy. This calls for greater transparency in order to promote more debate on key EEA issues in Norway. This also applies in relation to our parliamentary contacts with EFTA, EEA and the EU. Increased transparency in this area can contribute to more debate and engagement on Norwegian European policy. The work of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee is an important basis for real political dialogue between elected representatives in Norway and the EU. We have reason to be pleased that the work of the EEA Parliamentary Committee is increasingly focusing on relevant policy issues for the countries concerned. For example, mention should be made of north-eastern policy, where Norwegian north-eastern action has been profiled and associated with EU policy on the northern dimension. Finally, I would like to point out that the EU is developing, and an important factor is that the influence of the European Parliament on the design of new EU and EEA legislation is increasing. Parliament has an open decision-making process that potentially strengthens Norway's ability to understand and contribute to the drafting of new acts. However, this depends on more offensive and coordinated efforts by Norway. I would therefore like to underline the importance of strengthening the Parliamentary contact of the Storting with the EU system in general, particularly the European Parliament. This may help to ensure early impact possibilities and increased insight into issues affecting key Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e738	I think it is natural to link some comments to the annual report, primarily to the work of the Joint EEA Parliamentary Committee. This Committee is one of several points of contact between the Storting and the European Parliament. The importance of this contact increases as the influence of the European Parliament grows, as the Committee points out in its position. In the presentation we just had, the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed to the broader political development that is taking place between our neighbouring countries in the context of EU cooperation. The European Parliament is playing an increasingly active role in this area too. Closer contact with the European Parliament is important in relation to individual matters that will apply in the internal market or Schengen cooperation, but also important for our ability to connect us to this broader policy development in EU cooperation. This is going to be the third pillar of our efforts to settle for it a full membership would provide us with opportunities. The importance of enhanced contact with the European Parliament was also highlighted in the vote on the St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006 on the implementation of European policy. This must be done in a number of ways, including by involving committees other than the EEA Parliamentary Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs in contacts with the Brussels colleagues. I expect that the work on following up the actions on which there was a cross-political consensus during the treatment of the European Communication is well under way. With regard to strengthening the capacity of the Storting to work on EU and EEA matters, the capacity of the party groups to work on this and to send a permanent, annual one, we will call it the training delegation of representatives for two or three weeks to Brussels to become more familiar with the extensive cooperation we have with the EU, as we have long done with the UN, in New York. In the EEA Parliamentary Committee, we have the opportunity to follow developments in EEA cooperation, which is our main task. But we are also dealing with major and important issues, such as the Green Paper on European Maritime Policy and the Green Paper on Energy. Last year, at the meeting in Norway, we put the northern areas on the agenda – a theme that led to a broad European Parliament participation. However, it cannot be held that the interest of the EEA Parliamentary Committee among the members of the European Parliament is highly variable. The Head of the Delegation, Diana Wallis, from the United Kingdom, has spent many years working in this committee with great commitment. But even her commitment unfortunately does not have the power to arouse the corresponding interest of her colleagues. There are signs of two things: one is the joy that the EEA Agreement works well – and things that work rarely get much attention. The second, and more worrying, is that the European Parliament's agenda is filled with many and important issues that concern the 27 countries of EU cooperation. Then it becomes more difficult to get attention to a country that has itself chosen to stand outside the normal and ongoing work of this Parliament. However, it only underlines the need for us to put ourselves in line, or to use the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to stand up earlier and to lay down later, in order to strengthen contact between the Storting and the European Parliament, and to ensure that the points of contact we have and manage to create are coordinated as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e757	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e773	It is a joy, once again, to be able to present a unanimous opinion from the Foreign Affairs Committee on the ratification of a free trade agreement – this time with Egypt. The general conclusion I want to draw from this position is that free trade agreements have broad support for the Storting and the political landscape in Norway. What has also been seen in experience, I will not dwell on it for long, is that by getting such free trade agreements in place, there is a contribution to an extra trade between the EFTA States and the country with which we have an agreement – in this case, we hope for something similar with Egypt. One can say a lot about the content of the agreement – I’m not going to go into it – but I just notice that the agreement provides a good basis for and has a development potential to become wider and include other themes. The EFTA Ministerial Meeting later this month in Vaduz, Liechtenstein, will discuss further prospects for free trade agreements in the future. There are many interesting countries, as far as I know, which are now on the EFTA work list – Norway, Switzerland, Iceland and Liechtenstein. I have sometimes been surprised that we do not have enough pressure on this, but I acknowledge that it is a balance. WTO negotiations have the main priority in Norway. I think everyone is behind that, but that we also take advantage of the window that at different times is there for free trade agreements, is important, and that we are seeking to put these in place with our main trading partners. I'm glad the government has signaled that this is now important. One challenge here is that the responsibility for free trade agreements lies with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Therefore, I would like to encourage the Minister of Foreign Affairs – and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – to provide the Ministry of Industry and Trade with the necessary political ‘backing’ so that there are the necessary arms and resources to operate the processes, for there are demanding processes. For example, in some of the countries currently under consideration, India and China, there will be heavy challenging tasks that will probably require considerable resources, but that can provide very interesting results for Norwegian business at a stage where unfortunately we record that the Doha Round's ability to succeed, at least in a short term perspective, is not further good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e790	The second part of the work of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee is, of course, just following up on EFTA and free trade agreements — so some words in this regard. This free trade agreement with Egypt was concluded on the 15th EFTA free trade agreement. The next one that is likely to be approved here in the Chamber is the agreement with the South African Customs Union – South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and Swaziland. As Morten Höglund mentioned, there is a broad consensus on free trade agreements here in the Storting, and therefore there is also very rare discussion on this topic in the hall. It gets little attention, and it's so much joyous. The work on expanding our free trade agreements is a work to ensure Norwegian value creation easier access to new markets. It helps secure Norwegian jobs and contributes to meeting key policy objectives of working for all and building a safe foundation for our well-being. An important principle of EFTA trade policy has been to seek parallelity with the EU. There is a high level of activity in many places to examine the interest of new EFTA free trade agreements. In this respect, the EFTA Parliamentary Committee has highlighted the importance of the EFTA having sufficient capacity to follow up on the successive contacts made and where there is an interest in the countries for a free trade agreement with the EFTA, or at least to examine its possibilities. It has, for example, long negotiated with Canada, where there is hope that a result is not so far away. There are contacts with countries in South America and large, important countries in Asia. With regard to some countries, such as China and Japan, some EFTA Member States have examined the interest in a bilateral free trade agreement, which may pave the way for an EFTA agreement. We may have underestimated the size of EFTA as a trading partner, because there are a few members left in this organisation. But if we're just four countries, these four, which are among the world's most prosperous, represent a significant economy and are an important trading partner for many, both inside and outside Europe. As the rapporteur pointed out, the work through EFTA to conclude more free trade agreements is not a work that is contrary to our work for a new WTO agreement. The Free Trade Agreement is a complement, and it is likely for a while until we have developed a trade regime in the framework of the WTO that completely negates free trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e805	This is not to refute, on the contrary, it is just to emphasise that the Government places emphasis on what both the President and other speakers here stressed, namely free trade agreements. The complicating element is that we want a global WTO agreement. I would like to say again in this room that be prepared that it may come very quickly if there is now acceleration towards the end of this month. We cannot penalise the lack of progress by saying that Norway is not in favour of free trade agreements. We have to be involved in the same development, and we have to strategically select the areas where we can use that tool. We'll do that, which is an illustration of. Among other things, I had: opportunity to talk about this agreement with the Egyptian Foreign Minister when I met him early in April. So that's how, as the representative Svein Roald Hansen says, little attention will be paid to these agreements. You might understand that from their technicality, but these are very important agreements to connect with other countries. If we enter into all the analyses that trade is one of the most important things for development, then we see that these agreements are important both for the development of democracy, trade and welfare, which we had in mind here. I do not think we should underestimate how attractive we are as partners in such agreements. I'm just going to remind you of a number that I heard here not long ago, that Norway's purchasing power is equal to 11 million Italians. Then you get a picture that getting such agreements with us is also interesting. There is always interdependence in those agreements. So that gives us a lot of attention. There is a division of labour between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade here, but I can assure the representative Höglund that there will be enough resources to carry out the major negotiations that are now coming, with the quality we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e816	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e832	In this case, too, the Committee shall put forward a unanimous opinion. The Interparliamentary Union has, through its work, sought to draw closer to the United Nations. It can be a part of giving greater legitimacy to the UN. We were in the same mind last year when we discussed feedback from the IPU. What's interesting to see is that the newly elected president has outlined a reform work where this becomes part of the assessment, and that the UN has taken on board that this is an opportunity to look at further. In the two sessions that have been held, the autumn and spring sessions, we find that there has been a great deal of versatility in the basis of debate. There have been discussions about democracy and aid development, the restoration and construction of Lebanon after the war, criticism of North Korea for nuclear testing. Norway has put forward proposals for debt reduction in addition to normal assistance – without this having led to – and a desire for enhanced Interpol cooperation. It will be interesting to see what happens to the IPU in the next few years, and further development. With these comments, I present the unanimous opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e847	I've been happy to follow the IPU delegation's work for the last six years and have been leading the delegation for the last two years. I do not have any direct comments on the rapporteur's presentation of the unanimous vote, but I feel it is right to make some additional comments and information. The reform to which the rapporteur referred, which was also mentioned in the previous annual report, is under rapid development and is making new demands on us. It may be right and proper to inform the Storting about how this work changes. IPU is from 1889, an old organization. Such old organizations may be confused. Large organizations, with many member countries and large delegations, can easily evolve into large - word assemblies and full - volume resolutions that no one remembers. As I understand some of my predecessors in Stortinget, there was some fear that this was a development that would eventually also affect the IPU. It is then right to point out that over the last few years a reform of the IPU's own organisation and operation, and also, as the representative Samuelsen referred to, the relationship with the United Nations. As far as IPU’s own way of working is concerned, it is increasingly marked by a thematic agenda that seeks to focus on specific topics. It marks the work of the Committees by increasing the number of special events and seminars and by increasing the use of panel debates with invited sizes that have more insight into the issues. This has led to an increasing demand that delegations from different countries draw on colleagues from their own Parliament who, through their daily work, have a special insight into the issues raised in the IPU. I mention this because it can have consequences for the future composition of our delegations, in the direction that we have to be more flexible compared to who is going to be involved. Maybe you should have a small nucleus that's going to make up the continuity, and then you're going to be more flexible about who you're pulling in, on what theme you have. This requires a little bit more flexibility by us too. With regard to the second reform, the relationship with the UN, it comes out of the UN reform, which in its time also raised the need to involve the parliamentary dimension in the work of the UN. There were a little divided opinions about this, also from the Norwegian side. Two considerations spoke to that time. One was that the UN gained greater legitimacy by drawing on parliaments. You can discuss that up and down. It is true that the parliaments of those countries where the rulers may have the weakest legitimacy in relation to the population do not have much to offer in terms of democratic legitimacy either. It was some of the reasons for the movement. The second concern was that parliaments should be more involved in the work of the United Nations, so that they could follow up at home, nationally, what they had agreed to put on the agenda of the United Nations – and for that matter also to be involved and put pressure on how each country acted in order to make the UN reform itself effective. It was first discussed to set up a separate U.N. parliamentary forum. It has at least been left and entered into cooperation with the IPU, a cooperation that is in the process of rapid development. It marks the work of the IPU in the sense that the themes up in the UN at all times are also on the agenda of the IPU more frequently and faster. The IPU and the UN are increasingly organising joint events. A resolution of the last UN General Assembly explicitly expressed the desire to develop cooperation with the IPU, as a parliamentary forum. This has been taken into account, and a separate forum will be organised in the autumn in connection with the IPU's harvest meeting in Geneva, where representatives from all participating countries will especially have UN issues on the agenda. In order to facilitate this, it has also decided to set up a so-called core group, an advisory panel with one representative from each part of the world, who is to monitor closely the activities of the UN, be fully aware of what is happening in the UN, so that it can bring concrete themes into the UN IPU, to make it more focused and more operational. It becomes one from every continent in that nucleus group. It is clear that from the west it is Norway that is going to fill that position. The Norwegian delegation will take strong action in this respect. We hope that, on the parliamentary side, we can help implement this reform, at least help put more pressure on it to get the UN reform implemented. We get back to this side of what this means for the composition of the delegations in the future, but it's pretty obvious already that more people will be needed to manage more tasks at the same time during some of these meetings. We can also face the fact that we are going to have a growing need to involve people from different committees in the work, but we are dealing specifically with the administration of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e868	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-04.ana.ud387e881	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 2 - 4.
