ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e78	The representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Finn Martin Vallersnes, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold, Morten Højlund and Ågot Valle on leave on 26 and 27 March, all to attend the 24th interparliamentary meeting of the European Parliament in Brussels from the representatives of Jan Petersen and Per Ove Width on leave from 26 March to 30 March, both to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Kiev, Bahrain and Kuwait from the Labour Party on the leave of the representative of Saera Khan from 26 March to 31 March in order to take part in the study trip on immigration and integration into Paris from the General Assembly of the Progressive Party on health leave of the representative Åge Starheim from 26 March until 31 March until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Karin Yrvin, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Grand Duchy from 26 March to 31 March, under the leave of the representative Saera Khan. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Tove Nyhus and Cathrin BretzegFor Hedmark County: Lars Joakim HanssenFor Hordaland County: Audun Bjørlo LysbakkenFor Oslo: Khalid MahmoodFor Sogn and Fjordane counties: Oddvar Hallset ReiacamFor Vestfold County: Jan Fredrik VogtCathrin Bretzeg, Lars Joakim Hanssen and Jan Fredrik Vogt shall be elected to the Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Jan Petersen, Per Roar Bredvold and Per Ove Width respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e161	Tove Nyhus, Cathrin Bretzeg, Lars Joakim Hanssen, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, Khalid Mahmood, Oddvar Hallset Reiacam and Jan Fredrik Vogt are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e167	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solveig Horne and Anders Anundsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne and Anders Anundsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e177	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that case No. Case No. 1 and Case No. 2 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e202	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e213	By 2050 there will be twice as many people over 67 compared to today. The number of people with dementia will increase to 130 000 over 30 to 40 years. Both living conditions and new treatments make people live longer and better with disease, and the new generation of older people also have better health and greater resources to cope with old age. By 2030, 60,000 new nursing homes and homes will have to be built and 54 000 more annual work will be needed in the care sector. The central association of municipalities, KS, presented on Monday last week figures for the increase from 2005 to 2006 in the number of younger users of care services. There were more than 4,000 users under the age of 67, to 54,650 users, many of whom have complex and complex diagnostics that require considerable resources. Both drug problems, psychiatry problems and disability are reasons for the need for help. The challenges facing society are enormous when it comes to mastering the challenges ahead. The Health and Welfare Committee has its position on St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning, future care challenges, behind the developments and forecasts outlined in the Communication. There is a broad consensus that the municipalities should continue to provide health and care services based on democratic thinking. The Committee stresses the need for national strategies to enable municipalities to meet the major care challenges we face, and the Committee refers to the five national strategies described by the Government. People in need of care services must meet competent health and care professionals. Today, half of those with mental retardation are unskilled. Education capacities in secondary and higher education and universities need to be increased. Furthermore, it is necessary to focus on continuing training and training. Local authorities must give priority to freeing employees from their duties in order to invest in continuing training and thus in increased knowledge, in order to improve the quality of care services. An example from today's reality: the report by the County Council in More and Romesdal shows that municipalities in the county will have major problems in the years of recruiting qualified personnel for the health and care sector. The provision of secondary education for adults is uncertain there. Only half of the municipalities are planning to set up apprenticeships for the new health professionals to learn from the autumn of 2008. It has also not established the provision of vocational education in the health and social field for high-level personnel. Increased efforts to improve the quality of health and care services in municipalities include: improved medical coverage, and all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, support the Government’s proposal on criteria for local medical standards. But in addition, we believe that there is a need for standardisation by other disciplines in the nursing home. The Committee welcomes the Government’s agreement with the KS on organisational and management development and multidisciplinary competences. The opposition parties consider that an authorisation scheme for socionomists and child protection educators could have an impact on the quality of the services and increase legal certainty for the recipients of the services, and would like the Government to initiate this as soon as possible. The entire Committee is concerned with research, in particular in the field of care research, including: in dementia, psychiatry and elderly care, and propose, inter alia: the strengthening of the national research programme for elderly care related to the Norwegian Research Council. One of the most important areas for which the Committee has worked is planning, in particular that municipalities should plan for a sufficient number of nursing homes and homes. It is a prerequisite for the proper care of the sickest elderly and others in need of care. State health surveillance has pointed out in its supervisory reports that the capacity of hospitals in many municipalities is at the frontier of the unresponsible. There is also a need for relief sites, short-term sites, rehabilitation sites and long-term sites. This is important from the point of view of the long-term health care situation, as more and more medical treatment will take place in the future health care home. We see that hospital lay time is still falling, and that the proportion of swing door spaces is increasing. There is a need for more medical and ethical competence in many hospitals to prevent patients from being sent unnecessarily to medical and hospital services, perhaps because the hospital lacks sufficient competence. This will save both patients and relatives from increased pressures and contribute to the proper use of specialist healthcare resources and to the greater dignity of those involved. Many municipalities have removed hospitals and defined them as nursing homes to save money for, among other things. medicines, medical and technical equipment and for supervision. Patients must be in need of health and care services to manage the balance between hospitals and nursing homes, but it is important that funding schemes do not counteract this. Therefore, the opposition parties, with the exception of the Left, believe that a system in which medical devices, medical devices and, where appropriate, necessary services from certain occupational groups for patients in nursing homes should be considered financed, as is done for those who live in owner-occupied dwellings, including in nursing homes. The Committee meets with the Government's efforts to get more health and care workers to work full-time, and the Committee asks the Government to evaluate current practice and assess whether § 14-3 of the Environmental Protection Act is being practised as intended and to assess whether the law should be further strengthened. Greater jobs will contribute to greater continuity and quality of care services. There is a great deal in the Committee's communication, both the Government's strategies and some of the action proposals from the parties on the Stortinget, mainly initiated by the Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties. All opposition parties have been involved in more precise and more specific actions than those resulting from the Government. In total, nearly 100 concrete statements are written into the setting, such as comments and suggestions. However, there are a number of measures proposed by government parties that will not be included. In my opinion, it is most disappointing that they will not commit themselves to the following: to provide funds directly for the setting up and operation of palliative units in the municipalities to ensure that all municipalities are given special competence in reducing treatment State incentives for the creation and further development of elderly centres to establish ethical committee coordinators in the municipalities in liaison with advisers in the hospitals of families who have a disabled child. Here the government parties do not want to commit, even if they ask the Government to consider some of this in their own proposal. It is even more disappointing when the Government will not commit itself on a global level and adopt a framework for the investment up to 2015, as we have done in many large settlements in this room earlier. I have to admit that as the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council for the communication, I had expectations that we could reach an agreement on a new obliging plan based on the 1997 model, when the representative Hill-Marta Solberg got through the great effort on the care of the elderly. It was obligatory and very successful. We see that today, with almost 20,000 new nursing homes, 4,500 new nursing homes and 95 pst. One-room coverage. It was therefore very disappointing for all opposition parties when the government parties did not agree to the proposal for an obligatory plan. A great job is done in many municipalities, and many elderly people and caregivers receive good care services. Nevertheless, we know that not all disabled people, drug addicts, mentally ill or elderly people get the help they need. Through an obligatory action plan, we would ensure predictability and dignity for all those in need of care services. The comments made by the parties to the Government to make a separate case in relation to the 2008 state budget instead of a comprehensive plan of progress with money are not binding enough. It's a little forward-looking. In the Communication, the Government states that it is at each draft budget for each year that the economy is to be planned. They obviously don't want any interference from a minority opposition here. Of course, opposition parties cannot vote in favour of a proposal for a separate non-commitment and economic case. It was a settlement we wanted, not an annual dictatorship from a majority government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e271	The President is wondering if any proposals should be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e274	Yes, I have included with this the proposal that the Christian People's Party is alone in the vote, and the proposals we have with the other opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e279	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e284	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good report. But one thing that is missing in it may be one of the main concerns we see in the care of the elderly. It's going on in the financing system. There are good suggestions and many good intentions in what is here. But there is no attack on the main challenge, which goes on the funding system. You don't do much with it. If we don't make demands on the municipalities about the funding system, it'll be difficult to achieve. That is why the Progress Party wants to change the funding, as is stated in our proposal, so that the money follows the user. The state is given the financial responsibility, while the municipalities must have a responsibility, ensure that patients receive the offer that is to be made. My question to the representative Davøy will be as follows: Will the Christian People's Party now be involved in considering changing the funding system, so that the scheme will be the same for all municipalities, and that it is not the residence address that is crucial?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e291	This is a separate proposal that we have in connection with the communication that is being discussed in Stortinget, and the Christian People's Party has given its position on this matter. The Christian People's Party is not willing to look at a whole new financing system in line with what the Progress Party wants, namely that the money should follow the user. We believe that many of these users are not really able to order the type of services they need on their own, as the Progress Party wishes in its proposal. We believe that it would be most correct for the municipalities to assess this professionally, of course in cooperation with relatives. Changing the entire funding system does not seem to solve the challenges in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e296	I would also like to start by thanking Laila Davøy, both for the presentation and for the work he has done as rapporteur. But I'm a little surprised at the tone like that in retrospect, when the setting is delivered. For what has happened in the last few years – with the previous government in which the Christian People's Party participated – and in which we have now spent a lot of time trying to rectify it – was that we had a systematic decline in the welfare of the municipalities through a weakening of the municipal economy. I remember very well how Christian People's Party members in the municipalities around almost screamed up in pain as the budgets were presented from the government, and were strongly critical of the fiscal policy that the government was leading. In addition, the ISF share, i.e. input-funded funding for the hospital sector, was also raised to 60pst. in agreement with the Progress Party, which also helped to hit those particularly vulnerable, e.g. those who have multiple diagnoses, such as elderly patients, etc. Then it will be obvious to ask if there is no need for a slightly greater humility from the representative, too, Mr Bavøys. In particular, I refer to a press release on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e303	Today, we are dealing with a report on the content and quality of care services. I am proud to have been part of the Bondevik II government, which over the last four years has been a long way from completing the previous agreement on the elderly, which I have already boasted and said was very good, with an economic framework in which, for this entire planning period, we have been up to 40 billion kroner if we draw with what the municipalities have also provided within their framework. I am also proud that it was in the Bondevik II administration that we started working on a new growth message about the content and quality of the elderly care service. I was very happy when all the parties in Stortinget, after we got here, committed to this. So what disappoints me today is the last phase of the work on the care notification in the committee, where it became apparent that one did not actually want to commit in the same way as one has done in the previous big deal in the Stortinget. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e310	I am also surprised at the tone with which the representative, Mr Bavøy, has presented himself after the committee gave its opinion. She says that older and caring people deserve better than to be fooled in this way, while in fact agreeing with all strategies and measures to achieve the objectives, both in terms of capacity-building and in terms of quality-enhancing in this important area of care. I must refer to the proposal that the government parties are promoting, asking the Government to come back to the Stortinget on its own matter. This is precisely to be based on these five strategies. In particular, it shall address the challenge of dementia, of palliative treatment, which the representative also called for, of preventing solitude through day-to-day activities and of improving the conditions for those with demanding care challenges. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e318	Yes, the tone is a little bit off today from my side. The representative of the Chillaa knows well why. He also knows about the final phase of the committee discussion, where the opposition parties and I had hoped that the government would come back with a greater commitment. With regard to the proposal made by the parties to the Government, that is to say, proposal No. 1 in the vote, the following words will not be included in the proposal: commitment, progress plan, economy or framework for a commitment by 2015. That's what makes me stand here today and very disappointed. At least I hope that the government parties believe me. I think they know that today I'm deeply disappointed that we couldn't make a deal where all the parties made a commitment, as we did in the previous elder settlement. The elderly and the caregivers had earned it. We get no predictability if we go for the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e325	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e328	I am the case rapporteur for the proposal by the representatives of Nesvik, Fredriksen and Giltun on a plan for the conversion of Norwegian elderly care, where the state is responsible for ensuring that the money follows the user and covers the cost of care, i.e. Document No. 8:34 for 2005-2006, to be dealt with at the same time as the care notification here today. A majority, all parties other than the party to which the proposers belong, believe that the path proposed by the proposal should not be taken. Care services, both in terms of funding and organisation, are wanted to remain anchored in municipalities. The background is that you want to have a closeness to the users, to the population, and have local democracy around the design of this. It is believed that better prevention can be achieved through the interaction that can be created in the local environment through the community health service. There is a broad majority in favour of non-agreement. Another majority goes into the fact that there is a whole new welfare model, where we will have a comprehensive bureaucracy to determine the level of benefits and to issue approval of the measures to be applied to the individual user. It is very difficult to calculate the costs specifically for each citizen in the country. Many have complex disorders, such as: patients in nursing homes and those in home care, and it will require a large treatment system to deal with it. In urban parts of Oslo, ordering offices, as it is called, have been tested to process invoices and orders for services according to the same principle in the home care sector. In those offices – now they have some other tasks as well – there are only 20–30 annual works for one part of the city. So how many thousands of annual works must enter such a state bureaucracy, I don't think there's anyone given to calculate today. The reason for the majority not to go into the proposal is that it will be difficult for large groups of patients who are caring and who are not the most resource-intensive with the best means of informing themselves within a public utility, of completing forms and of knowing what is right. It is difficult for these groups to be active customers. It is shown, for example: for up to 80 pst. of patients in hospital — and many of those living at home who are cared for there — suffer from dementia. So we're worried about how this system will affect the vulnerable groups. It is also difficult to develop such an offer in the districts, so that, based on the possibilities offered to purchase services from a state bureaucracy, it is possible to obtain the services that will be available in the major urban areas. So, as I said, the majority of the Committee does not agree with the proposal of the representatives representing the Progress Party. The starting point of this principle is also a starting point for addressing the care notification itself: There is concern about the quality of care provision for the most vulnerable groups, the weakest user groups, which are behind some of the things the Committee has done most. One of these groups is those who suffer from dementia. It's a problem that we don't have an overview of how many there are, and how many people live at home with dementia, and who get help from relatives. It's estimated that it could be up to 70,000 people. It is a big problem that it is estimated that 70–80 pst. of patients in nursing homes have dementia, and that there are departments and offers for perhaps only 20 pst. There is also a great lack of expertise in the specialist health service to support efforts towards dementia sufferers at the nursing homes and in home health care. We should, among other things, have had an ambulance team from the specialist health service that could be involved in this area. The government has announced that a dementia plan will be put in place, and we therefore hope, on the basis of the comments of the Committee and on the basis of what is stated in the report, that more concrete measures will be taken to bring this matter back even more strongly. Another group that we are concerned about is the undernourished, and there are many of them among the elderly. According to studies carried out by the Committee, up to half of those living in nursing homes may be under-nourished. This may be due to a long-standing lack of attention to nutrition, the fact that those who have worked in home care or in home care, due to stopwatching systems, etc. has not had time to sit down and help create a pleasant environment around eating. The food-removal system may be closed down in many municipalities. And it could be that training in diet, learning how to feed yourself in the best possible way, is a major deficiency both in municipalities and in specialist health services. So measures in relation to malnutrition are essential. Among other things, both hospitalisation and hospitalisation require that we have a record of the extent of the problem. A third group that we're concerned about is those who need relief at the end of life. Action is being taken here at educational hospitals to train the staff of all hospitals around the country to conduct conversations with relatives and those in the final phase of life, on how to act together, how to deal with this in a good way that creates peace around the situation. This needs to be systematically implemented at all hospitals around the country, and this is included in the patient records, so that the staff at work are aware of the patient’s situation and are able to make the right decisions, which are again made on the basis of conversations with relatives and patients, when emergency situations arise. A fourth group we are concerned about is those who need dental care, and who have heavy expenses to do so. Here are the many vulnerable groups that we need to be able to help better. The government is working on a dental report, and we hope you will come to Stortinget with measures, because among other things. the oldest can have very large dental costs associated with the insertion of crowns and other expensive things to help with various diseases in the teeth, which are not covered if you do not belong to special groups, live in nursing homes or have special gum diseases, etc. We have also taken the measures for drug users, how we can make more individual plans, so that they get a better follow-up when they come out after receiving treatment, and this is also going to come back to the Government in a escalating plan for drug users. The Committee has also worked a lot with parents with children with disabilities and their major needs for help. It is difficult for parents with children with disabilities to coordinate everything they should know, bring with them all the services that should be able to contribute, and better coordination is needed. The Government shall also revise the Strategy Plan for this purpose. There is also a need to improve the organisation of the school leisure system and to look at the family leave scheme for these groups. To get to all of this, the key is to have enough professionals, to gain more competence, and to have enough employees. The way that the government has chosen to go, and that the great majority that I referred to in the first case, also chooses to go, by solving this via the municipalities, seems to succeed. Until now, in 2005–06, 5 800 new annual works have entered the care sector in the municipalities, and 3 900 only last year, in 2006. In other words, compared to the government's target of 10,000 new annual works, 4 200 are missing. It shows that the way to go, via municipalities, is to step up funds in the municipal economy, which is done with both transfers and increased tax revenue – DKK 18.2 billion in a few years – the way that benefits. But there is also a need for the Government to do more when it comes to transitioning from part-time to full-time. It turns out that until now we have not got the development that is desirable there. These measures should be tightened up, for example: in this case, if you have part-time, you should have a right of priority in the full-time position. It has to be checked whether that's enough to make this work. Action on health professionals launched by the Government is important, and we should in particular put our finger on the opportunities for students who want to train in health care, to get apprenticeships in municipalities, which to date have been far too few. We also need to look at the authorisation of several groups, in order to make it attractive to take jobs in the care professions. We have to look at the breadth of competence. Physiotherapists, caregivers, activists and logo pediatricians must be available to address different needs of nursing homes and other care services, including: in the case of increased activity — multiple possibilities of use of the body, rehabilitation — in the case of nursing homes. The medical treatment at the nursing home has also been discussed by the rapporteur. Government lots go in there to increase it by at least 50 pst. by 2010, and has been widely welcomed. There is also particular reason to be aware that there is a large proportion of unskilled people working with mental retardation in municipalities. One of the things you should be careful about is not to make too small units, so you can't create professionally competent environments to give users good enough offers. The second part, in addition to adequately skilled labour, is the development of health care centres and residential housing and the provision of self-catering facilities. There, the Government launches an investment grant introduced from 2008 but on which it will be possible to apply for those initiating in 2007. This is widely supported by the Committee. Of course, we think about nursing homes/housings, but also about accommodation in dwellings, such as lifts for the elderly who want to live at home in housing law, where it is not possible to get up on the floors. This investment grant must be long-term. We have to remember that we are now going to build up in view of a very large increase in the need for care towards 2030, and it cannot come upon us as the Christmas evening on the wreath. A group that particularly needs to develop nursing homes are those with mental disorders. In the psychiatry escalation plan, it is estimated that up to 2,700 dwellings are still needed. Otherwise, we have to be aware that the threshold for sick leave should not be too high, because the threshold can seem to lead to no cows, while in many municipalities we have seen that when examining who needs sick leave, the reality is that there is still a great need. We also need hospitals to avoid Corridor Asians not getting out of hospitals, where there is such a blame for each other's situation between municipalities and hospitals. One is that the major issues addressed by the Committee both in this setting and in the context of the budget are the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. We're saying that it's going to be the next big promise in care and health care. An important factor is that tenders should not be used to interact with those building up rehabilitation services. It is important to be able to negotiate long-term contracts in order to ensure quality and to dry up investment in a proper way. It is also important to expand offers throughout the country. It is important to provide training for patients and family members to make it work when leaving institutions and hospitals. It is said that two out of three today do not receive any such training, and then you can quickly get more swing door patients than you should. There is a lot more that can be said about everything we've gone through in the setting here at Stortinget, and about which there's a great deal of excitement. There's a lot that this is just the beginning of. I have mentioned through the article that there will be a dementia plan, there will be an escalation plan for care for drug users, there will be a plan for the next major promise to be rehabilitation/habilitation, and there will be a dental report. We're going to deal with a big health difference message at the end of May, which has a lot to do with this. There has been a COLS strategy, etc., and there is a broad and concrete commitment to what is called the Health Plan 2015, which is part of the care notification. We have now agreed that there will also be a new concreteisation with the State budget, on a separate matter. So overall, this is a very committed, concrete structure of work, in which we are deepening in a number of areas of activity in the construction of care services. We will return to several of the matters I have mentioned, in connection with the State budget and on other occasions. So I want to encourage everyone at Stortinget to focus on the content of what we're doing, not to discuss the formalities around the proposition or case. I refer to the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party included in the vote – proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e381	The representative Jan Bøhler has taken up proposal No. 1 in the settings. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e386	It's a little important that we take care of ourselves, for example. the really big challenge that we actually have in the care of the elderly, and that the government has forgotten in many ways, that is, all those in hospital, who lack a place in the individual municipality, because the municipalities have not invested in a really good development of the care of the elderly, but spent the money on other things. In this context, it might be interesting to hear the representative's thoughts about just how to tackle this, how to get something done about this big challenge that we have, because at least the government has completely forgotten in this message. I therefore ask that the representative, Mr Bøhler, explain why one is not able to contribute to earmarking grants just for the care of the elderly in the municipalities. They have chosen to earmark grants for kindergartens instead of spending on care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e391	It is an important problem that there are patients in hospitals who are going to hospital, but who do not have room, and there are corks in the system. I have talked about this in many municipalities. We have seen, for example: here in Oslo that Lovisenberg Hospital has repeatedly pointed out that they have many patients whom they should have had in hospital, but that it has stopped. I make a reservation that it was Lovisenberg – I thought about another hospital, I can't stand it – but I've seen in the media that it's a big problem. We now have a payment scheme where the municipalities are punished if patients stay in hospital over time. I think more measures are needed, and one of the measures is, of course, the investment grant we are now receiving in the budget in relation to building up capacity, which also underlines the need to expand short-term areas that will be suitable for receiving patients on a faster basis, before assessing the long-term need for hospital accommodation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e398	I will not comment on the part of Mr Bøhler's contribution relating to Document No. 8:34 for 2005-2006, in addition to pointing out that he was harmed to mix the question of funding model with the question of free choice of user. The two things have no necessary connection at all. So to what's essentially. The representative, Mr Bøhler, stressed that the increase in tax revenue has given rise to greater arms. It is good to see that it is the successful tax policy that led the previous government, which has led to that result. The representative of Bohemia described the challenges in a very good way, and everyone could hear that these are things that cannot be solved in one state budget. The strange thing is that the same representative, Mr Bøhler, is today going to vote against the proposals of the Committee of the Regions, asking the Government to submit an obligatory, long-term plan to solve these problems. All the documents listed by the representative Boehler are excellent, but most of them never come to the Stortinget at all, because there are internal working documents in the Government. [[The President clubs.]] Why cannot the representative, Mr Bøhler, vote in favour of the majority proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e407	Several of the documents go to Stortinget. We also deal with many of the questions that we have, for example. as regards rehabilitation/habilitation and escalation of care for drug users, in this document and have done the same in the budget setting for this year. We need a commitment approach/plan in the future. I believe that the care notification, care plan 2015, with the various concreteisation courses we have now set, is a commitment. I think it gives us the opportunity to work deeper on these questions. I fully agree with the representative for Wage that, when we deal with the escalation of care in the state budget, we will have a perspective that goes beyond one year at a time. We have to be able to see more, but we also have to get this relationship in place in the annual government budgets, in order for it to become a reality. Everyone who's been in government knows that. I believe that the willingness of the committee to make things happen is so great that together – instead of discussing the proposition or case – we should be able to push this forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e416	The government has provided a care notification covering all groups in need of assistance from the local health service. The representative of Bohemia has also spoken today about a number of groups that have largely not been included in the message. I am thinking of a rehabilitation strategy for chroniclers, who are not a group of their own, but who in the years to come will need extensive rehabilitation services in the community health service. We're talking about a separate dementia plan, about a dental report and about a escalation plan against drug abuse. My question is: how does the representative of Bohemia – and the Workers' Party – think that the relationship between, for example, the healthcare message we are dealing with today, and all the strategies and plans that will come later will be? I think about progress and priorities. Are you thinking of a new plan that integrates all of this? I don't see the whole connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e423	In the care notification, care needs are widely addressed. I think the committee has developed many of the questions in a very nice way. It has also made new observations, of which I myself mentioned a good part, and which the rapporteur mentioned earlier today. I believe that caregiving is a key document. Then we're going to elaborate -- go into it thoroughly -- several of these questions. I have mentioned dementia, intoxication, rehabilitation, dental health, health differences, COLS, etc. We have told the government what we want it to come back with in connection with the state budget. If you look at the subject areas mentioned in the proposals of the government parties, they are, in fact, quite broad. I want to encourage the opposition to join in and develop the work on these different issues until the next state budget. In the government parties, we would most like to have the opposition on – and we would like to talk about and have processes for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e432	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e436	The Committee has common comments on much of the referral to this matter, but the Progress Party has no belief that non-binding agreements between the Government and the KS will ensure that the municipalities follow up their part of the agreements. In the Municipal Report we could read that KS has recently conducted a study among the rapporteurs. The study shows that more than 50 pst. by the rapporteurs at all does not feel obliged to follow up such agreements. As I see it, there is little to suggest that the other local government representatives will feel somewhat more obliged – if they know the agreements at all. This Communication describes the current situation. Many areas need to be strengthened, but the challenges we face are not guaranteed in any way. There are vague, round and non-binding objectives, which are likely to be followed up to varying degrees. The difference between municipalities will continue to increase, and there is little evidence to suggest that the measures in the notification will lead to better patient flows between the municipal health service and the specialist healthcare service. It's not just about talking across levels. It is also a matter of financing services to the greatest extent. Current funding is a major obstacle to better interaction, especially in the case of the elderly and those in need of palliative services. As far as funding is concerned, we in the Progress Party have promoted a good proposal for a representative, which Harald Tom Nesvik will deal with later. The government realises that there is a need to increase the number of hospitalisation sites, but will not set any needs-to-be targets for municipalities. The forwarding party relates to what is believed to be the need and maintains the target of a coverage of 25 pst. in relation to the number of older persons over 80 years of age. The state and local authorities could have made a lot of savings in building more and better homes and in strengthening their skills. The message we are now discussing concerns the problems, but the large under-coverage in hospitals, which needs to be corrected before we get the increase in the number of older people, is not taken into account. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, from the Right and from the Christian People’s Party request that the ‘normal reimbursement arrangements from the State be considered valid for patients in hospital homes’. This is to avoid what we're seeing now, that nursing homes are used because it's profitable. All 80 pst. of those who are in a nursing home are demented. In one study, Sintef concluded that old people in nursing homes have an average of 6.7 treatment-intensive diagnoses. In nursing homes, there is one doctor per day. 180 patients. This shows that many are not guaranteed full medical, nursing and multidisciplinary competence during their last lifetime. The other parties' 50 pst target. increase in medical coverage at nursing homes does not meet the recommendation for a professional standard, which was investigated by a professional group led by Stein Husebø. A local norm will produce worse results and will continue local differences, and it is not binding on the municipalities either. All parties, except the Advance Party, will let the municipalities themselves assess the need, and one should probably have a certain reason to fear that considerations other than those of a purely professional nature will play a significant role. The Progress Party will follow the recommendation of the Scientific Group and the Medical Association. We propose a doubling of the medical units at the nursing homes. We also want a centrally statutory minimum standard based on different types of nursing homes and on different patient categories. Turning physicians shall not replace the permanent hospital practitioner, who knows the patient’s needs and health status. The opposition parties refer to the Municipality of Oslo, which is in the process of establishing an offer called Care Pluss. The target group of these dwellings is those who used to live in old-age homes. This offer will be based on several activities for users and on a flexible service provision. The opposition parties are in favour of such measures, which are kind of an intermediate level, in order to avoid or expose the need for hospitalisation. However, nursing homes cannot in any way replace nursing homes. These dwellings may not be used as short-term or relief sites or are used by residents who have dementia or are heavily nurturing. In the case of mental retardation, older people too. It is important that they also receive an appropriate offer. The Progress Party has been concerned about the mentally retarded and has proposed its own representative to ensure that they are granted their rights. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been supported by the majority. The psychiatry escalation plan ends in 2008, but the Progress Party continues to see the need to follow-up with earmarked funds both for the operation of the services and for the construction of several psychiatry homes. There is a great deal of concern about what happens when the earmarked funds are inserted into the framework of the municipalities. There are still major deficiencies in psychiatry. Psychiatric reform has also resulted in many elderly nurses with a serious mental diagnosis now in regular nursing homes. It creates anxiety and insecurity for the other patients, and the personnel do not have the competence to be responsible for serious mental illness. The party considers it important that this group of patients receive a specially organised offer demarcated from the regular hospitals. Older drug users are another group who will also need organized services. Older drug users cannot be expected to be abstinent. At the same time, consideration must be given to other residents. The Progress Party believes that it is important to provide an equivalent level of care and care to all and that no new forms of special care should be introduced for different groups based on different cultures and nationality. The other parties consider it particularly important to focus on proper nutrition and mental health services in relation to immigrant groups, but the Progress Party is somewhat surprised that some groups should have special care in areas where we know today that many need follow-up regardless of nationality. The pressure on home services has increased sharply in recent years for various reasons, but the greatest change seen is the increasing need for services in younger users. According to the KS, half of home resources are now used to meet the needs of one third of users, who are younger users in need of assistance as a result of disability, mental illness or drug problems. Domestic service budgets are not increasing as these changes take place, and the result is that an increasing proportion of resources go to the care of the elderly. This also applies to all the new jobs that you are talking about, which are created in the municipalities. The opposition parties in the Committee believe that people in need of extensive assistance to cope with day-to-day tasks should be entitled to receive assistance in the form of user-led assistance. The party considered it appropriate to clarify that this right also applies to the elderly. The Progress Party believes that the elderly and caregivers receiving care services should have the same protection as children and people with disabilities. This means that a certificate of good conduct should also be provided when employed in such positions in order to reduce the risk of abuse. The State Health Authority has pointed out that many municipalities do not have a satisfactory offer of social contact and activity in the care service, either for those living at the institutions or for those living at home. Activists, physiotherapists and other professional groups could help improve the offer, but provision must also be made for more equal work and for volunteers to be more involved in developing good daily services, even if the overall responsibility lies with the municipality. Opposing parties propose a separate incentive for the development of elderly centres. The Party of Advances is in favour of the Government reviewing the care of home service recipients by its decision-makers, as the evaluations of the fixed medical system show that many home-dwelling elderly people have far too poor follow-up from their permanent staff. In the case of education, perhaps some of the most important things are to get enough labour in place. In the opinion of the opposition parties, the Government’s proposal on the 2015 Competencelift must be supplemented by measures from the representative’s proposal for a competence plan to recruit qualified workers for the care and care sector. Research is also an important area. Research on the needs of the elderly for care, disease and dementia, as mentioned in the Communication, it is important, in the view of the Progress Party, to give far higher priority to what the Government proposes, as the results of this research could mean much both for individuals and for society. What will be most crucial to the extent of care needs in the next few years will be the result of research and medical development in dementia. The Progress Party also looks forward to the completion of an overall dementia plan, which is announced in the notification, but assumes that the plan must be concrete and binding and that it is followed up by earmarked means. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will establish a nationwide contact telephone for the elderly who are exposed to violence, and this is a fine measure. However, a contact telephone must also be able to pass on assistance to other parts of the ancillary public service where it is desirable or required. The Progress Party shall follow up its draft budget by proposing that the State pay more of the costs to resource-intensive users, by reducing the point of entry for the top funding to SEK 600 000 and by reducing the proportion of municipalities by 10 pst. of excess amounts. Young people in need of care shall have a suitable accommodation and care outside the nursing home. The progress party cannot accept that this requirement is not being met in the municipalities. We also believe that the age limit for those who are considered younger in this context should be changed from 50 years to 60 years. The Progress Party believes that eartags are required to ensure better care provision in municipalities. We also believe that this is important in order to achieve an equivalent offer for the elderly and caregivers throughout the country. This message is one of many that are filled with views, plans and good intentions, but that binds neither the Stortinget nor the municipalities. We in this room have a great responsibility, but we also have opportunities to provide caregivers and older people with security to get help, by legislating rights and by making demands on the objectives of this communication. But does the majority have the will to do that? Unfortunately, it doesn't look like that, and it worries more than us in the Progress Party. I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e495	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposals of the Progress Party in the vote. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e500	The representative Giltun also stated that the Government is non-obligatory, and that we are basically a little irresponsible, we belong to the government parties, because we don't want enough commitment, as it was expressed. My first question to Giltun's representative is: does she not think the annual government budgets are what is actually the most binding when it comes to the issue? Another question is: the progress party is very concerned that the money should follow the users. Does the representative Giltun think that all users are actually able to make the choice seam, or is it such that the state must then choose? Does the representative Giltun have such confidence in the state that she will leave that responsibility entirely to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e512	Of course, with regard to the annual budgets, the money is in the budgets. The problem is that there is no place where the money is to be spent. The money does not follow the patients, and the fact that an offer is expanded does not trigger any money. The annual budgets of Stortinget are only provided as framework funding to municipalities, which can use them for anything. In the case of municipal budgets, there is a lot of money to be spent on, and it is not always they go to the care sector. As far as freedom of choice and state funding are concerned, there is a great difference, as wages pointed out, between having freedom of choice and having a government funding of services. In our proposal, we do not require each user to choose. We give them an opportunity to choose. What we're very concerned about is that these services are paid with government money, so that it ensures everyone in the whole country equal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e519	I do not understand that the Progress Party does not see any problems with the model they are sketching, which is therefore a bureaucratic and market-adapted model where one assumes that the elderly will act as customers. This is a system that's going to go beyond the sickest, those who don't have strong relatives, and those who can't complain all the time. And it goes beyond all those who live in the districts, where it's not possible to rely on a set of different actors that can compete with each other. Then it's also going to assume the construction of a bureaucracy, which will go at the expense of direct service to those who need it. Therefore, I find it strange that the Progress Party is not more concerned that this will lead to a strengthening of trends that we already see, in dealing with some patients – or so-called users – as profitable, while others become unprofitable. In this way, it will lead to an increase in class divisions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e526	I can at least say that the Progress Party is very concerned about, is the result we see of the policy that has been put into effect now. At least it's not a result that shows that those who need it get help. It's not a result that shows that you've had enough sick places. It's not a result that shows equality for everyone across the country. What has been seen, however, is that in terms of the right to go to hospital, for example. in case of emergency hospitalisation, everyone has the right to do so, no matter where you live in the country. That's the funding it's about. It is not a matter of having a customer who has to choose. The municipality should be responsible for ensuring that all receive services and that all receive assistance. But there should be an opportunity to choose. And that possibility is there when there are other offers, and is there to a lesser extent when there are few other offers. That's not the problem. The problem today is that patients and those in need of care do not get help, because the municipality has not spent any money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e533	I understand that Giltun was a local politician before she was elected to the Stortinget. My question is whether the representative of Giltun does not believe that local politicians around the local government can actually make quite reasonable decisions in terms of planning care for the elderly, in terms of measures to be implemented, in terms of health housing and the need for nursing homes, etc. Does not the representative Giltun believe that the many local politicians who sit around the local governments are making priorities, which one must always do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e542	Being a local politician is a useful school. You might want to be in between, even if you've been here for a while, because then you'll see how it works around the municipalities. The centre party has tended to say that the wit is equally distributed in all the municipalities. Now, the money is not evenly distributed in all the municipalities. Nor is it the will to give priority to the same things. We believe that nursing and elderly people are not fit to be throwing balls in a system or given the decisions made by a local government in a budget. Where there are scarce funds, there will be very little care. In those municipalities, there will be a much, much worse offer than in municipalities that have been allocated much more money and that have a much less expensive economy. The safety of care services shall be the same for all throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e549	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e552	Today could have been a special day for care policies in this country. The message we have for treatment was initiated by the previous government, and it was said very clearly by the then state council that this message was to be different from previous communications by putting significant emphasis on content and quality and a little less emphasis on quantitative quantities. At the beginning of the further work, the present Council of State invited the party leaders from the opposition parties, at the invitation of the Party leader of the Christian People's Party, to a meeting to lay the groundwork for a broad cross-political lifting in the context of the treatment of the care notification. For a long time, in the Committee's proceedings, it was also expected that it could end up in this way. There was reason to believe that there would be an agreement on what is now the majority position on the part of the Committee, which follows on from what everyone had expected, namely that, after the Stortinget has dealt with the document we are dealing with today, a binding proposal by the Government that integrates all the different components of the quality promise that is needed in the care policy. Unfortunately, this was not the case, as the government parties notified the Committee that they could not participate. This is not a formality. This is – I had almost said – bloody serious. For, according to common practice, it can only be interpreted in one way, namely that the Minister of Finance has lowered his foot. And that means that it doesn't make all the world's difference to which party the Minister of Finance comes. I noticed that at a newly held party meeting, it was said by the finance minister that it makes a difference to SV in the responsible position. At this point, there's no difference. This government does not want to commit over the year, i.e. that it does not wish to give priority to broad cross-political cooperation. Nor does it wish to give priority to care policies in an obligatory way, other than those which must always be included in the annual draft budgets. That's regrettable, but we have to take note of that. According to SINTEF Unimed, sick elderly people in nursing homes today have more than six active disease diagnoses. Despite this, there is only one doctor per day. There are 180 patients in hospitals, while the average number of patients in hospitals is two per year. play. The proportion of unskilled in the care sector is close to 40 pst. According to the medical report, 20 pst. mismedication by the residents of the hospital. The Social and Health Directorate has estimated that 20-50 pst. by the residents of nursing homes are undernourished. Then it is interesting to note how low the Government’s ambition is to correct these eye-catching misunderstandings. The government only invested 25 million. on quality measures in the care service in its proposal in the current budget. The right proposed 125 million in its alternative proposal. to follow-up of unskilled, better care at the end of life, development of teaching homes and research on dementia. The government cut its draft budget in higher education and research and hit among others. training of healthcare professionals in the care sector. Diaconal colleges, which have a long tradition of training nurses within geriatrics, had to cut off their offerings. In the future, the new proposal for free school law will make it much more difficult for adult people who want to train as assistant nurses than is the case with today's law. It must be an objective that all employees in the care sector will have professional competence in the future. Everything else is too bad. It is therefore essential that, in the near future, the Storing should be able to adopt a binding objective in this area. In the 2005 election campaign, the Labour Party promised to introduce national medical standards. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen spoke to the News Agency on 16 August 2005: ‘I challenge Minister of Health and Care Ansgar Gabrielsen to tell as soon as possible whether the government intends to comply with the requirement to introduce a minimum standard of medical coverage in hospitals and in case of what the norm should be. Such a standard of medicine will be important in order to enhance the quality of care for the elderly.’ After one year by the government, the government parties returned and reported that they do not wish to introduce such a national norm. On the other hand, you want to enter the hospital as a compulsory part of the medical rotation service. To this end, I would say that I think it's an extremely risky experiment, if you haven't first made sure that there's guidance capacity that can take responsibility for the work of young medical candidates at home. If this is not provided, there is reason to fear that such an entry in the tour services will be a permanent vaccination against wanting to serve in the hospital sector. From the right, we place considerable emphasis on the principle of user choice. Why do we do that? Well, because all experience shows that caring people are exactly as different as everyone else. And the older we get, the more different we become. It's not like people get alike the older they get. There are even greater individual variations in the older age groups than in the younger ones. It should be clear from the sun that the possibility of making choices itself should not be worse for weak groups than it is for the average Nordmann. The senior case in Norway has defined it as its taboo to enforce the principle of free choice of user, and I understand that very well. There are a number of studies to confirm that where this is introduced, the level of satisfaction is very high. Former Secretary-General of the Church's Bymission, current Councillor Helen Bjørnøy, declared in 2005: «Customer choice is a very good and forward-looking model. Some things in the model have to change, especially economically. But the fact that people can choose a service provider is part of raising the quality. I'm sure of that." A study conducted by the Centre for Care Research at the University of Gjøvik on behalf of the Health Inspectorate of Oslo and Akershus, which is based on a questionnaire survey of managers and employees at 111 hospitals in these two counties, shows the following: ‘Both in terms of quality of care, operating procedures, medical management and the professional competence of the on-the-spot staff, it is such that employees in municipally driven nursing homes report slightly worse conditions than those of hospital workers run by other organisations.’ Some claim that this is a question of privatisation. It's pointless conceptual practice. There's someone who makes it look like this is about dollars and dollars and cents. It is also a pointless production. Competition between different providers is primarily about one thing – quality. All experience in all areas shows that where monopolistic situations exist, quality never improves. As I said, I had hoped that this would be a brand day where it would have ended up with a broad, cross-political joint commitment for the future. Now the government parties themselves take responsibility for their position, and we others can only follow the further development critically.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e594	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e597	I think it is very good that there is obviously such a great commitment from the Right Inge Wage in this matter. But I want to remember what was the situation when the pay side was dominant in government, with Per-Kristian Foss as Minister of Finance. At that time it was not a hallelujah mood when it came to the care sector. On the contrary, right-wing rapporteurs interest the Stortinget – and, among other things, Kristin Halvorsen who was sitting here – in order to press us to increase the appropriations for the municipalities, among others. because they saw that the differences increased and that people who were in great need of care were being cut off in transfers to the municipalities. If the Right had remained in government, they would have promised new $23 billion in tax bills, mostly to those who have the most from before. So saying that it doesn't make a difference who sits with the finance minister is crazy. Therefore, I would rather recommend the representative's salary to take a look at what was done, and what promises have been made for the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e602	The President will draw attention to the fact that ‘spray’ is not considered to be part of parliamentary vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e605	What Thorkildsen's representative says, most of them have heard some times before, because there's a record that's been played pretty many times, with a hack in it. The local economy has evolved exceptionally strongly. It did so in the previous period, and it did so in this period. As the representative of Bohemia pointed out, the majority of the increase is a result of dramatically increased tax revenue, which is again a result of the fiscal policy of the previous government. This is an increase of DKK 10 billion, which is currently a strengthening of the local economy. It doesn't get any better if you repeat over and over again that this tax policy was aimed at giving more to the richest. The result of this tax policy is that the community has had a much more liberal economy than it had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e612	First, I'd like to commend the Right for very constructive and good work in the committee, to get the most consensus possible. I think it's a little bit right to be able to say from here. That is why it is very bad that the representative for Wohnning's posts became so negative in relation to part of the cases. Wages are concerned with user choices, it's an ideological point of view. The experiences he refers to are good. I can refer to very many others who are not so good. I would like to ask a question to Wage: If your salary does not believe that this is privatisation – I hear tenders and competition – who is going to run it, if not private?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e619	Privatisation is that responsibility is transferred from public to private. This does not happen in the case of free user choice in this sector. It is the municipality that has full responsibility, it is the municipality that contracts, and it is the municipality that is responsible for monitoring the quality. To characterize what privatisation is, in my opinion, abuse of words. It has to be enough that we disagree about realities, if we're not going to play the time using words in different ways. What's my main point, which I tried to get into my post, is that in this area, like in all other areas, most people want to have more than one possibility, for example. in the case of receiving assistance at home, and that all studies show that quality increases by the number of competing suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e624	It is good to hear that the Right Party and the Advance Party are very much in agreement on care policy. It seems almost as if the Right agrees more with the Advance Party than with itself, but it may be that the Right considers proposing the same thing as the Advance Party has proposed here. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, There, the Advance Party has dealt with what the doctors themselves think is the right coverage, and perhaps the Right will also consider it when the matter comes up again. I would also like to ask whether the Right will consider proposal No. 6, where we ask the Government to look at staffing plans at nursing homes, and appoint the Social and Health Directorate Approval Authority there. We are also concerned that there should be proper and good staffing, and not least that the medical coverage should be as recommended professionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e629	Every party is closest to itself. This probably applies both to the Advance Party and to the Right. When we have not joined the proposals to which the representative referred, it is because we do not agree with them. We were in the last period when we agreed with the government responsibility that the idea of a national minimum standard was good. To this extent, we record that the government parties have changed their position and agreed with us from the previous period to this period. The interesting question is, what is the best way to achieve satisfactory professional quality? Unlike the Progress Party, we believe that in most areas national standards are not a good tool. Incentives to the municipalities are better. It is quite simple because experience shows that national minimum standards tend to become most common, i.e. that they are all at the lowest permitted level.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e636	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e639	One of the first things we did after taking over the government power was to stop new tax reliefs and instead strengthen the local economy. So far, 18 billion kroner have gone to the municipalities, and more so. The right-wing government had, in all the years it set, prioritised tax relief, and the Right had promised that this development would continue. The right promised 23 billion dollars in the next few years – more to those who already have the most. It was this election that took place in 2005. And why was this so important? Well, because it is about fundamental values in our country: defending and further developing a strong welfare state that protects us independently of private economy and market value and slowing down the development of ever-increasing differences between people. In the Norwegian, relatively aideologicalised debate, it may seem that policy is primarily about bidding. But this is about a lot more than that. The Soria Moria Declaration and what we have done since we took over – with distortions from tax havens to welfare – stop the proposed changes to the Working Environment Act, which would have given a more insecure working life, and stop the Right privatisation of the school – are in stark contrast to the trends we see in most countries in Europe. Increasing differences, which are also reflected in increasing health inequalities, are the result of a private economy policy, in particular the private economy of the privileged, at the expense of well-being and community. That's why our job was no. 1 to stop the fiscal policy of the previous government and start strengthening the welfare state. The value of a strong welfare state based on universalism or collective arrangements is that it preserves all citizens, regardless of the size of the wallet. Common arrangements are good because they are based on the idea of equality. That's why we, for example. have started to introduce free teaching material in school. In this way, those students who have little money are not allowed to be visible to everyone else, because they have to be without teaching material until they have received a scholarship. In the worst case, testing can help shrink people, because they have to prove that they are worthy of need. That is why we would not agree to the Right's proposal on the need-tested child protection, for example. Similarly, we are opposed to being replaced by charities. Former Social Agency of the Progress Party believed it was right to invest in charities, among others. to drug-dependent and social clients. We strongly advocated this. Those who have the worst deserve humanity, respect and inclusion, not charity. Solidarity is about dealing with one another in reciprocity. Charity, on the other hand, is a one-sided act, which makes someone a good man and others a poor man. Knowing that we're not alone or being left to the family if things go wrong gives us enormous security. Paying by ability via the tax bill is incredibly much fairer and much cheaper than a solution based on private insurance. In addition, a strong public sector has provided Norwegian women with economic navigability and completely different options than women had only a few decades ago, when we also mainly based on family solutions where women took responsibility unpaid. This remains a major challenge for many women in Norway, not least for those who provide older family members on a daily basis. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries, but not the equality paradise that many people like to believe. We can see that from the statistics on part-time work, where women dominate. That is what we see from the fact that men with children work more than men without children, and we can see that by offering women job breaks that do not give them social security rights. Three out of four main carers are women. Professional women do as much for their parents as non-professional women, and some studies show that women with the longest working hours do the most. Our conclusion, therefore, is that we want to continue to strengthen the welfare state, hand in hand with a strengthened gender equality policy. We see that the extra 18 billion kroner we have brought to the municipalities, provide more care and care for the inhabitants and better jobs for the employees. We are well on track to achieve the target of 10,000 new annual works by 2009. In addition, municipalities strengthen prevention when increasing their efforts in the community health service. That's good. We have great ambitions in the care sector, both for the elderly, for drug addicts, for the mentally ill, for the disabled and for the mentally impaired. SV is concerned that enhanced well-being must go hand in hand with good attitudes and ethical competence. Many so-called users feel that they are not included in the processes, that the arrangements are bureaucratic and square, and that the resources that all people have are not seen by the auxiliaries. We have to avoid this. Both financial freedom, good governance, flexible solutions and human vision are important here. Just as many drug addicts tell me that they want to focus more on the positive sides and the resources they have, so there was one who wrote in to the project group during the care notification work: there is no disease to get old. We must not have a one-sided focus on the sick, but also look after the healthy. It is quickly done to clientise and morbidise, often in the best interests. Rather, we need to promote a different perspective, namely maritime aid and participation – or user participation, as it is now called. In this there is a democratization, because it gives an opportunity to take control of your own life. I believe that participation and flexibility are better strategies than the right-hand side's so-called freedom of choice, which has really been about the right to choose the company logo. A little over a year ago, I visited Søndre Nordstrand as a home help in the ‘stopwatch village’. Here I was told that the most important thing for the elderly people I came home to was that those who came home to them had better time, and that they were allowed to decide more, both who was to come and what to do. He I worked with was very popular, and many were anxious that they would lose him. The home helpers were concerned about the same things, but in addition they were concerned with both nutrition, increased bureaucracy and lack of trust. Many felt that the form field was an indirect mistrust of the job they did. Many people experience insecurity when they need help, whether they are elderly, ill or disabled. We have to do something about this. It is important to put in place a long-term investment grant that allows for the expansion of both nursing homes and nursing homes. It is important that we make clearer demands on nursing homes, both in terms of staffing and day care. Many older people are very lonely, and activity offers are important. We're launching the cultural walking stick and a new help phone for the elderly who are exposed to violence, and we'll be better able to facilitate the development of opportunities to be a resource in the local environment. To feel wanted, to feel that you have something to contribute, that someone needs you and cares about you, can do wonders, even for human health. A few months ago, I had an amazing experience at the volunteering centre in Bø – which I have told you about once before – where the idea was to create meeting places across generations and for many different people. An older lady got help in snowmoving and supporting refugees who were living in Bø, while she in return packed food packages and made food on cottage tours. A few Fridays, a discotheque was arranged for the mentally retarded, and it was a separate creative workshop for the mentally ill. With additional appropriations for the volunteer centres, better local economy, organisation of partnerships between volunteers and the public, and a new investment grant from 2008, we create more meeting places. There are several areas that require an effort from our government in the future. Physiotherapy is such an area. Physiotherapy services have not been systematically reviewed or evaluated for the past 15 years. We're going to review this service, including the financial instruments. We need to provide a dental report and a habilitation and rehabilitation strategy. Both parts are absolutely necessary, as a defective offer is severely affected. Chroniclers are particularly vulnerable, and we know that this is a problem that affects social bias. These are people who basically don't have much to walk with. The government will also provide a letter of consultation on user-led personal assistance with a view to strengthening the scheme, and we will address the financing of particularly resource-intensive measures. Medical services in nursing homes shall be strengthened and needed. By 2010, the number of annual works is going to be 50 pst, and we're going to evaluate this on an ongoing basis. Municipalities shall quantify their medical needs in each hospital home, and it will be free of charge for over 300 nursing homes in 2007 to connect to NOKLUS, which will provide safer sampling and diagnosis. We also need to assess authorisation for new personnel groups, including: socionomists and child protection educators. We look forward to this in SV. We will strengthen the national research programme on care for the elderly, and we will strengthen the offer to demente and their relatives. In addition, we shall closely monitor municipalities that convert nursing homes to nursing homes and review the legislation with a view to ensuring that residents of nursing homes and nursing homes are as fully covered as possible by common provisions ensuring the same rights and supervisory arrangements. An action plan will be put in place to strengthen the specialist health services of the elderly, a stepping-up plan for drug care and an assessment of how we can continue to strengthen the supply of mental illness after the exit of the psychiatric intervention plan. The government is to review the rules on leave in the labour market because parts of today's system operate unfairly, especially for women. In addition, we want the Government to look at the possibility of establishing a transitional system of income protection and qualification measures for those who have had long-standing care efforts for relatives. In addition, the government will make proposals for solutions to help children with disabilities get a good school leave throughout their education. Ownership shall also be reviewed and palliative treatment and interaction between and across levels shall be improved. Cross-disciplinary competence shall be ensured and an assessment shall be made of how families with children with disabilities should be better offered. We've started a long process, and we're going to have full pressure on this for the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e666	At the same time as the care notification is being addressed here today, the government's signals indicate that we will have new and other measures to follow up. No one knows the economic consequences of this or the way this is going in the field of health policy. And this is a government that's been sitting for two years. Is the representative of the SV comfortable with the fact that almost all areas of the care message are unsolved and without obligations, while the Government is evaluating a message for treatment in the Storting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e671	I think it's a very strange description that is now being given, that no one knows which way it goes with this government. I think that if you ask local politicians around in everyone, most of the municipalities, they see very clearly which way it goes. The same applies to people in the municipalities who are in need of help. There has been a massive strengthening of the local economy, which is the most important step we can take to improve local well-being. We know that if the previous government still had, tax relief would have been a priority, and then it's mostly about those who have the most from before. This was a development which was also supported by the Progress Party, in addition to the fact that the Progress Party had a strong desire to increase the effort-driven funding for hospitals, which is a system particularly affecting those who are chronically ill, who need comprehensive and coordinated services. So I don't think the Progress Party has so much better answers to this. On the contrary, I think people are watching the way this goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e676	I record that the representative of Thorkildsen is unable to handle new changes on the tax plate, even the same wording. I assume that the background is that the three government parties have undertaken to continue exactly the level of taxation that the three previous government parties left behind in the last year. If that tax policy was so terrible, you might have done something else. The representative of Thorkildsen referred to the ‘stopwatch city’ of Nordstrand. It's a creative concept. My question is: Has the representative of Thorkildsen found that the test procedure with user choice of 70 pst. in the district of Nordstrand were evaluated as positive? And to underline further, the representative Thorkildsen agrees with State Councillor Helen Bjørnøy, as I quoted, who says: ‘...the ability of people to choose a service provider contributes to raising quality. I'm sure of that." [[The President clubs.]] Or is the representative of Thorkildsen insecure?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e688	The President will ask the representatives to pay attention to the clock and stay within speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e691	So first of all, it's not like we've gone to the same level of tax revenue. We turned it back to the level of 2004, i.e. that we have $12 billion more each year to go with and use on welfare, instead of using it for private individuals, which would have led to increasing differences. With regard to the issue of competition or free choice of users, there is a great difference between investing in commercial operators and investing in voluntary operators – if we ensure that the voluntary operators act as voluntary operators and not as market players. What has been quite clear from the users is that the desire to decide who will come home to them, the desire to have more time, more flexibility in the solutions offered, is most important to them, not the question of the choice of company logo. I think it is very strange that the Right Party and the Advance Party, especially in this city, have focused on a definition of freedom of choice as a question of which company logo users should choose. I don't think even the representative of the pay sail would particularly appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e698	SV is a lot that in many contexts is occupied by the weakest in society, and they have had relatively easy time to commit to this in the Biggest. I think of my own time as the Council of State, as there were some important things that SV never hesitated to be in. I think of children and young people and good measures that went over the years. I also think about the nursery arrangement, where you made an annual commitment. And I am thinking about the escalation plan for mental health, which SV has also participated in. My question to the representative of Thorkildsen is: what is it that the caregivers, the sickest sickest, the sickest elders, should not be given a corresponding commitment settlement in the coming years? Then I think about where the framework for economics is put and where measures actually become predictable, because they won't be if you, as the representative Gunn Olsen said here, are going to make a decision from year to year in the government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e705	I do not understand that this care notification, what is stated in the Soria Moria statement, and what we have written in the vote, where we concretely specify which areas we are asking the Government to go through particularly carefully in a separate case to the Storting in connection with the 2008 budget, as well as an investment grant that will be long-term and binding from 2008 onwards, is not binding. On the contrary, I believe that we have given very clear signals about the direction this should take. We have a Competence Commitment 2015, which is also very clear and clear about the direction we are going to go in, and where we say that we should also have a clear commitment to the local economy in the future. So I don't think we've now committed ourselves to an informal race. I think it's very clear in which direction this is going to go forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e714	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e717	From 1980 to 1995, three major reforms were carried out, with local responsibilities being coordinated as a central objective. It was the community health reform, the health home reform and the reform of people with mental retardation. Municipal care was more than doubled as a result of these reforms. In 1995, the number of years spent in institutional care was highest, while in 2005 the number of years spent in home care was about the same as in institution. A big challenge is that 40 pst. of all those who work there do not have health education. There is today a strong consensus in the Storting on future care challenges. It is clear that someone wants to create the impression that the disagreement is great, as Laila Davøy as the case-rapporteur has proclaimed in newspapers and debates. It is strange when a reader reads the setting and also looks at the proposals for decisions that the setting makes. I don't think anyone's earned with this reconstructed polarization. The party that stands out in particular is the Progress Party, which wants a completely different way of financing care services than the others. The paper is based on five main strategies to meet the challenges of the future: competence development, research and planning capacity growth and competence enhancement interaction and medical follow-up care partnerships with family and community All the parties at Stortinget believe that these strategies are good, and it is interesting to note that very many who plan care services around the municipalities share the view that these are good strategies to meet the challenges you face. In fact, many have read the big message and believe that both the situation description and proposals on how to solve the challenges are both good and forward-looking. What the municipalities at least want is to get government orders on specific solutions to the challenges leveled down their heads. They want help with professional development, opportunities for project funding for individual actions and not least sufficient resources to find good locally adapted solutions. In conversation with relatives and users, there are some common features that go back. First of all, the threshold for getting sick homes is too high in many municipalities. In addition, many municipalities lack relief places, which are essential when care services for relatives are large. The need to be able to get in for a few weeks and know that mother or father is in safe hands under day care is vital. Therefore, the Government announces an investment grant in the State budget for 2008 and that a transitional arrangement will be in place for the investment grant, so that those starting in 2007 can apply for grants in arrears. However, after many years of hospitalisation and conversion to encoiling rooms, the need is not met. It is therefore essential for the Centre Party to provide predictability for municipalities in this important area. Another area that is pointed out by relatives is, among other things: the number of helpers meeting the individual user, and low flexibility and predictability. Here it is a great potential for improvement in many places. Leadership needs to be increased so that services are better adapted and organised. When users have to deal with increasingly new people and the number of helpers is difficult to understand, there is something that is not well organized. It must be a goal to ensure the lowest possible number of helpers for each individual user. When home help cannot be changed on the bed because it is not on the list of to-dos, there is something ripping wrong. Flexibility and user involvement shall be a central criterion for people whose need for assistance is constantly changing. Some believe that the response to the care challenges lies in taking decisions here in Stortinget and telling in detail how municipalities should organise their quality development work. This concerns, for example, the proposal of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to set up ethical committees in hospitals. The Centre Party considers it essential to strengthen the ethical competence of people working in the municipal health and care services and to join the intention of the proposal of those parties. However, the solution is not necessarily to set up ethical committees. The centre party believes that it is a management task at local level to ensure that all employees acquire the necessary ethical competence through continuous testing and reflection of their daily work. The background to the proposal is precisely based on the need for ethical reflection in meetings between employees, users and relatives. The quality agreement between the Government and the Municipal Councils in cooperation with the professional organisations is essential in this context, and the Central Party assumes that a different model develops to strengthen and anchor ethics. For some municipalities, Ethics Committees can be one action together with many others in this important work. Another proposal, with which the Christian People's Party comes, is to employ a professional in each municipality who has responsibility for coordination with families with disabled children. The Centre Party considers other measures, such as strengthening the work of individual level, responsible groups, etc., to be as important as each municipality's having a coordinator. The challenges for municipalities are many. This shall be followed up by the Government, inter alia. through the broad quality agreement concluded with the Central Association of Municipalities. This agreement is based on the five strategies I mentioned at the outset, which are agreed upon by an overall increase. This agreement is enshrined in the consultation mechanism between the Government and the local government sector and is valid until 2010. Furthermore, the Social and Health Directorate, in cooperation with the professional community, has developed a national strategy for quality improvement in social and health services. This strategy focuses mainly on improving the content of services, improving systems and strengthening users. Teaching homes also have a very important role to play in developing and disseminating good examples of quality improvement in care. An example that can be mentioned is procedures for dental care, with which the Füllingsdalen teaching home worked a lot, another is good interaction practices between the first and second line services developed by Fevikun educational health home in Grimstad Municipality and which they pass on to other municipalities. I would like to stress that a very good and exciting development is taking place in many municipalities. Enthusiasts who are really looking forward to further developing care services around. What is important is that you can get locally adapted good services. The municipalities have been given new tasks. One example is that patients are discharged from hospital while they are still being treated. Changes from pre-treated to printing ready for use put local health services under heavy pressure in many places. It requires enhanced competence, up-to-date equipment and sometimes increased staffing. Halvandenline services with a reinforced treatment and care factor will be an important investment in the future. It needs to be developed in cooperation between municipalities in order to provide patients with good treatment locally. Examples in Trondheim and Bergen show that it is possible to obtain. What is necessary is to clarify economic conditions. The Central Party believes that this should be organised as a municipal service and that the municipalities should then be compensated by the State for such reinforced measures in the municipal health service. Some will refer to state price financing as a solution to care tasks, with a checkbook as a solution to all the challenges. The centre party believes that the care of the future can best be resolved locally, by focusing on multidisciplinary empowerment, local development, municipal planning and organisational and management development. The setting of local quality requirements should take place at policy level. Local policy treatment of quality requirements strengthens local involvement in relation to the content of care services. Continued strengthening of the local economy and the decision later today that the Government should follow up the Storting's treatment of the care notification is the best starting point for safe and good care in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e761	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e764	It's good to hear that you mean a lot. But you choose not to do anything about it. The Progress Party promoted the following in a proposal for a representative: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a notification to the Storting on how the target should be, that there should be an offer for the pleasure and care of 25 pst. by the population over 80 years in the period up to 2030, can be reached.’» This supported the Central Party in October 2004. What changes in society have caused the Central Party to oppose this proposal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e777	What is absolutely essential is that the municipalities have a differentiated offer so that people who need happiness care are assured to have it. Some municipalities choose to expand nursing homes, others choose to expand nursing homes. Some bets in relief areas, which allow people to stay at home longer and to stay longer in their own home. So this is very different around the municipalities. After the large-scale hospitalization, a number of municipalities have failed to achieve the objective of having adequate health care facilities. This is why the Government of the State budget for 2008 will propose an investment grant, which will enable municipalities to continue building hospitals to accommodate people who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e784	It was good to hear the examples mentioned by the representative of Skjärlaaen from two right-hand-steered municipalities, Bergen and Grimstad. The right is concerned with ensuring quality of care services and developing care. The right also believes that all those in need of care are entitled to decide on their own everyday life. There shall be a right and not an obligation to choose between different services. In any case, it shall be a public responsibility to ensure that everyone is offered a good quality offer, regardless of the ability and willingness to choose. In the setting, government parties write: ‘Being a consumer with claims and rights is a demanding role. A customer must take responsibility for keeping himself informed about offers, quality and prices.’ Is it true that the Center Party believes that all caregivers must be disqualified? What about all young disabled, spiritually healthy elderly and others who are definition is unable to take responsibility for their own daily lives – does the Central Party consider that they need to be unauthorised?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e798	No, we really don't mean that! We believe that people should have the opportunity to choose as well – choose who will come home to them. However, there is a great difference between user involvement in municipalities such as the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. conclude contracts with the ISS for hospital or home care where companies are required to make money on the public offer given. I have a spinal reflex that we actually won't. We do not want anyone to make money on the public care service that the municipalities around want to provide. It's really that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e803	The representative of the Kijlaa was involved in the interaction between the first and second line services in his post, and he pointed out that interaction is important. As the representative of Skjælaa knows, a selection that has provided emergency services to local hospitals has just presented its setting. They did it last week. They say 90 pst. of the needs of the population for health services are identified by the primary care services, and that up to 70 pst. patients in need of emergency care are treated in local hospitals. The selection then naturally means that from this point of view, resources in the healthcare system have to go towards local hospitals and primary health services. So my question to the Skjäla is: Is the representative of the Skjäla agree with the conclusion of the selection, and in that case how will he follow this conclusion – that is, go from word to action?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e812	Now I have not read the full report, but I have read the summary and a little inside the report, and I agree with many of the conclusions there. It is clear that this group regards local hospitals as a fantastic resource to be further developed and built to meet the needs of the population, and in particular the needs of the ageing population. When I get time to study the report more closely, I'm sure I'll find a lot of good in it. When I mention one-way service, it's because we want people to be treated at the lowest possible level of responsibility. Having some reinforced departments, an enhanced nursing home in a large municipality, for example, we think is a good way to solve this. At that time, skills also have to be increased, and one has to have some more means to drive for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e821	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e824	St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006 on future care challenges is in many ways a loophole for how to meet the major challenges that we all know to be facing. Of course, the rug is an ageing wave that we can say comes fluttering, especially from 2020. It's about going from word to action. In this way, more concrete action would be desirable than that contained in this leniency message. Moreover, the Government should impose more stringent obligations on the follow-up to the Storing Message, as an overall opposition is called for. But in any case, creating a resilient care policy for the future is a challenge that needs broad political anchoring. Left thinks it's decisive that we have a good and equivalent health supply for everyone who needs it, when they need it. The health care system must take the patient, the suffering of the patient and the caregivers seriously. Information, co-destination and quality assurance are necessary for us as patients to know safety when we need help. In health policy, the left will give more priority to those who need it the most. This requires re-priorities and better interaction between different parts of the healthcare system. State and municipality have a clear responsibility to facilitate society to minimise the risk of health damage. Increased efforts in rehabilitation and prevention are important in order to distribute resources better within the healthcare system and ensure that chroniclers, drug addicts and people with disabilities get a better daily life. It is unthinkable that dental treatment should be separate from other medical treatments. There are historical and economic reasons why disease in teeth and oral cavity is not reimbursed under public schemes. Left wants a public refund scheme equal to the set scheme. We are pleased that the other party in the media now supports us in this matter, but notes that the Left is the only party that has chosen to commit itself financially to improving dental health. The majority in the committee have agreed with the department that there is a need to increase efforts in the case of medical work in the institutions by at least 50 pst. until 2010. Certainly with agreements in municipalities can work 7 and 1/2 hours a week with public health services. Public health services are primarily the supervisory function of hospitals, school health services and health services – all important functions. But the municipalities buy on average only four of these hours. So there's a lot of ambition in the care message to increase the number of hours for the doctors in the hospitals, but then it's also important to make use of the possibilities in the structure that we already have. I think the municipalities think that maybe we can save money here, but at least this is short-term thinking. Local authorities need to pay more attention to the purchase of these services. The left will encourage the Minister of Health and Welfare to instruct the municipalities to buy these services more. As I was in the last line shift, a report on the emergency functions of local hospitals has just been submitted to show the importance of local hospitals in the health care chain. It's settled that about 70 pst. of the morbidities can be treated at this level. And it's confirmed that 90 pst. the needs of the population for health services are taken care of by primary health services. It also highlights the importance of interaction with the community health service and the fact that patient treatment at the lowest possible level is both correct and important. This conclusion from the working group implies that resources must be transferred to these two lowest levels in the health care chain. We politicians have a special responsibility to conduct this debate at a holistic level, meet the sick at the right level and transfer resources to the right level. It's incredibly important. We want to capture 1 pst. Of patients with good treatment before they need hospitalisation, we save a lot of money that can be used elsewhere in the healthcare system. This is both good patient treatment and good social economy. Good use of resources before health care is important, but of course the most important thing is to get good patient care. Many older people become confused in the meeting with changing surroundings and transports again and again between different levels of treatment. Treatment at home or at the institution of the elderly is, in our view, a very important part of giving a truly worthwhile care. I believe that the most important thing for the elderly at the hospital is to meet with specialist competence in general medicine, and these need to expand their competence in dementia and age psychiatry. I think it's an unrealistic goal to get enough specialists in geriatrics to meet the older wave. Thus, general practitioners should be given an increased and wider competence to meet several older people at the lowest possible level. We need to organise care activities so that the first line service is strengthened and this service is able to take more responsibility, especially for the elderly. The left is pleased that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are on a note in the setting of the 'visitas arrangement' for older people over 75 years – a note that only these three parties were on. This is part of our elderly effort and, in our opinion, is in line with treatment at the lowest level of care and not least good prevention. The left is disappointed that the Government has not given greater emphasis to checking that the IPLOS registration has been in line with user involvement and privacy requirements. It is important that there is no information that is strictly considered unnecessary, and questions that are asked to users of care services should not be perceived as invading – it is a requirement for IPLOS to be used. This is an unsustainable situation for anyone with a need for help and a clear breach of privacy. Some of the questions have changed, which the Government has fixed in this message, but the question does not, in my view, raise the need for users outside the home. IPLOS is thus completely discarded as a tool to capture the needs of its users and does not provide the correct information to the municipalities. The left understands that those who are registered express distrust of this system. It is offensive and completely unacceptable. The detail of the questions is too extensive, and they are very intimate. The left will express great concern at the ongoing pressure to facilitate the collection, use and retention of personal data related to health. In smaller municipalities and urban areas, the individual user is very easily recognised by today’s IPLOS registration. This is unfortunate. People with a need for help are easily recognized as an expense item in their local government budget, which is perceived as debilitating and incriminating. In society's eagerness to monitor the population, we risk people losing confidence in the health system. The left prioritises a greater focus on child and youth psychiatry. It is very unfortunate that children and young people are waiting a long time to receive the necessary treatment. In order to meet the challenges they are currently facing in the field of psychiatry, all stages of the response chain need to be strengthened across skills and levels of care. For this reason, the Left prioritised major commitments to healthcare professionals in its alternative budget. Even in this area, we must give priority to those who need it the most. It is not acceptable that children are waiting for adequate treatment for months. So a few words about rehabilitation. Health professionals are characterised by different attitudes and priorities with regard to rehabilitation. This results in very different practices, both in terms of supply and the type of services purchased. It should not be such that a residential address is completely determined whether or not to provide the individual with a good rehabilitation service. We must get a consensus before the trade union environment and give priority to research into what is good rehabilitation. When it applies to Inst. S. No 126, the problem in this matter is in practice part of the overall care area. We in the Left believe that the proposal for the Progress Party is not a good idea. We mean that the rightful thinking to which this is added is not political sedentary, sedentary, and that it is almost a great illusion. So we've given the feeling that we're going to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e869	Over the past 20 years, care services have undergone several reforms that have affected both elderly care and different groups of users. Taps have been taken both to increase capacity and to upgrade the quality of the service provision, but we are not in target. What is also new is that the number of younger users under the age of 67 has almost doubled over the past ten years, among others. in the wake of developmental and mental health reforms. This government is pursuing a policy based on Community solutions. We clearly prioritise well-being over further tax relief to the richest of us, so that older people and others in need of care are assured that the municipal care service provides adequate assistance when needed. This shall not depend on the thickness of the wallet. The welfare society of the future requires everyone to contribute. It is important that even more people take joint responsibility for the organisation of owner-occupied housing and active participation in society. We are experiencing a growing senior population, where many can face ageing with increased resources, both health, economic and educational. This gives the future’s older ability to master disease and disability in an even better way than before. We live longer than before. We're going to enjoy that. It's the best quality stamp in our society. We want to further develop this society. The welfare society of the future needs to be even more able to put individual people at the centre and place great emphasis on freedom, diversity, user influence and independence. In the design of the service provision, it means more individualisation and less standardisation and ‘stop-clock care’. I believe that rigid and detailed time sheets and instructions are incompatible with such a development and can help to disenforce both the user and the person to help. The government wants to stimulate even more user influence and to facilitate that all users, regardless of age, diagnosis or functionality, can live an active and worthwhile life based on their own desires and preferences. Real user influence requires that professional professionals, our administration and the treatment system are conscious and ensure that users are given increased influence so that they are able to make their own choices as far as possible — and that they are also listened to. The future will require the care service to cooperate even more closely with family, community and non-governmental organisations. Altogether, all of these basic resources that we can't do without in the years that come. We're going to create caring communities. Therefore, municipal health and social services must continue to be localised and based on local democracy, proximity and local knowledge. Municipal home services have their strength in their interaction with family and community. We are facing major challenges in terms of quality, competence and capacity in the future. I am therefore pleased to note that there is quite a broad consensus in the Committee on the long lines of care policy, both with a focus on Community solutions and that the municipality will continue to be responsible for the design and financing of the service. The Progress Party is the exception, especially with regard to the funding system. It is of great importance that the Municipal Councils and the Government have concluded a new agreement on the quality of care services. That means we're on a common course with the municipalities. It gives good hope that the goals we have set can be achieved. The government's proposal on which strategies we recommend is well known here in Stortinget. I just want to comment on some of the most important measures. The government has set itself a target of 10,000 new annual shifts in the care service by the end of 2009. We have assessed it both as necessary and realistic that most of the growth can take the form of health and social education staff. It's ambitious, but absolutely necessary. We have, as we know, prioritised a significant increase in the income of municipalities. Combined with a strong increase in tax revenue, municipalities have added DKK 18 billion to new revenues during 2005 and 2006. A few days ago, we got the new data on the evolution of the number of annual works from the Statistical Central Bureau. We were pleased to note that in 2006 there was a growth of a total of 3,900 new annual works. It's the strongest growth in the number of annual works in six years. This confirms that the government's policy leads, without denomination of funds and without detailed management of the municipalities, but by providing municipalities with much more money. The central association of municipalities has recently announced that the municipalities have plans for 2 000 new annual works in 2007. Overall, this shows that we are well over halfway to the target of 10,000 new annual works. This allows us to provide more care in nursing homes, more care at home and more care in nursing homes, and to do even more in dementia care, to expand daily provision and to focus more on culture and social interventions. That's why this is so very important. The increase also means that employees can take a little better time and cut a little less. We have also quantified targets for several health professionals, several with vocational education, several with decentralised higher education and further education at the higher education institutions. The KS, together with the professional organisations, will also contribute to the essential competence of employees in ethics. Here there will be major challenges in the future. This can be done in different ways around the municipalities. The government will stimulate and contribute to pilot projects in this area. It is not certain that ethical committees will take care of everywhere and in all municipalities, for example. The government has, as you know, also announced that next year we will be making a new investment grant to build more hospitals, nursing homes, short-term places in hospitals and lifts in blocks, so that people can stay longer at home when desired. This grant will, of course, be aimed at older people, but also at the much younger users under the age of 67 who need a lot of care and good places to live. It is also important to say what is publicly known, that we are in favour of a transitional arrangement for the current year, in order not to put an end to the expansion. That means that those who start this year have the opportunity, of course, to apply to be assessed in the same way as those who apply next year. We are now identifying the needs of the municipalities. I will discuss the design of the grant with the KS, and the Stortinget will be given a thorough orientation in relation to the state budget for the autumn. Research and development are also important in order to plan and improve care services, because we have to go on all the time, because we are constantly getting new knowledge, and because the technology is luckily moving forward. That is why we need to step up funding for care research. We do this in close cooperation with the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, which contributes in an affordable way through Einar Strand's research fund. We have also announced the establishment of five research and development centres, one of which is already open. I am pleased that a unanimous committee asks the Government to give priority to this. I am pleased to note that there is broad agreement to strengthen medical care in hospital homes. We don't have to have any long talks and arguments for why that's right. We need to do this to meet the needs of patients, and it is also essential to get a more accurate patient transfer between the hospital and the hospital. That's why we've set the target that everyone knows about here -- at least 50 pst. increase until 2010. We believe that the number of employees they need locally in each hospital home, for example, needs to be determined, but we are committed to continuing to strengthen the local economy. We suggest that all municipalities must have reported by the end of this year what plans they have to follow up on this goal, we suggest that home health care should be given a more central place in medical education, and we must demand tour services in hospitals. Finally, I would like to say a few words about dementia – an area that until now has been too affected, an area that I think many should acknowledge that it has been done too little. The government is now working – as a follow-up to the care message, and what we say there, and what I see there is quite a lot of support in Stortinget – with its own dementia plan. We have to get more day deals, we have to get more relief, we have to make sure to get the diagnosis done even earlier, and we have to provide even better help than is the case in many municipalities today. I would also like to say that I believe that in general we have come a long way in the matter of care and care, but we are not in the target anywhere. The main focus, in our opinion, in addition to this and in the future, should be on everything that goes on being human, whether you're young or old.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e912	The Council of State intervened in the grant notified by one in connection with the 2008 State Budget to any new hospitalisation sites, the conversion of existing dwellings, etc. They also say that the municipalities that are considering expanding something this year can apply in the same way. The problem is you don't know the size of this, the way you're going to do this, or how you're going to do it. My question to the Council of State is: does not the Council of State now fear that this will stop the planning that is taking place for the current year? The municipalities do not know whether or not to grant this. Nothing is known about the amount of this contribution, how to get responsibility, what places to put it in, and to what extent. How are these municipalities supposed to be able to apply this year, but will not get answers until next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e920	It's true, as the representative Nesvik says, that all the criteria are not clear. We'll get them back to the state budget. We have nevertheless warned that those who choose to build further this year – which I think is good that they do, because we need further expansion – can search and be assessed on the same line as the others from next year. Obviously they're taking a chance, but there's no doubt that we're talking about a limited number of municipalities here. I've been talking to a lot of people elected in some of those municipalities, and several of them are willing to take that chance of getting the building started. I can also say from the government's side that it's important that we get this in place. That's why this is an area we're going to give priority to. We come back with exactly how much when we get back to the state budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e927	In the Political Quarter this morning, the Council of State was injured to claim that the distribution of input-driven funding, 40/60 p.p., was introduced by this government. I would like to give the Council of State an opportunity to correct it now. The Council of State said in its statement that the welfare society of the future requires everyone to contribute. I can't agree more. But why is the Council of State and the Government so skeptical when female nurses — the percentage distribution is that — want to establish themselves as founders in the care sector? Shouldn't it be in the middle of the blink for what's government's wish? So, finally, to the 10,000 annual works. There is a reason to congratulate the number 3,900 for the year 2006, but there are some cuttings in the sea that I have to point to. Under this government, the number of sick leave in this sector has increased to 8.2 pst. It beats the legs of a significant part of this increase. What will the Council of State do to meet this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e936	Firstly, in terms of the number of annual jobs, I don't think anyone can argue that in 2006, there was the highest growth in the number of employees over six years old. This means that in the time when the Right sat in government and had the opportunity to contribute to getting more employees in this sector, things did not go very well. It is, of course, linked to the fact that over several years, the right fed the municipality hunger, as opposed to what this government is doing. These include: what we're now seeing results of. Why is it so important in today's debate? Well, that's because we can't make a good offer if we don't have enough people – and with age-old education – compared to the challenges that are. Therefore, it is important when looking at the municipal economy, that one also looks at the number of annual works. This gives concrete results, and there is a difference, if some opposition batches try to give a different impression. When it comes to the issue of sick leave, I take it very seriously. There is also something from the background that I have instructed my health companies that there is something they should give priority to. I know that Åslaug Haga is also working closely with his rapporteurs to reduce sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e945	I note today that the government parties in many ways say that they want to make a commitment. The representative Rune Skjäla calls it a constructed disagreement when we talk about liabilities in the future. This morning, I was in Political Quarter with the Council of State. We had a debate, and also in that debate, the Council of State used the term ‘commitments’. That's positive. So my very specific question to the Council of State is: is it now that the Government will commit itself to a plan in the future, where we will see again both progress and that there will be money included, i.e. an assumed framework for the investment up to 2015? If that were possible, I would very much like to ask for a yes or no response. But I'm sure that's not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e952	I think the question is a little too extensive for me to answer a clear yes or no. But what I can say is that the care plan 2015, contained in this message, is already binding. When the Government offered the Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties to come back with a case of their own in connection with the state budget, it was an honest attempt on our part, because we wanted a settlement and a closer dialogue. I am sorry that it was not possible to get there. Yes, it's going to be obligating in the sense that when we put this forward together with the budget, we're also going to show how much money we're going to spend on investment grants to build more, and how much more to the local economy to get us employed more and more quality, and we've already committed ourselves to a multi-annual effort to increase medical care in hospitals and train more health professionals – to mention something. I believe that this government has already shown that we will commit ourselves to this being one of the most important areas of activity, and of course we will also show that in the follow-up when we return to the cause in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e961	There are several who have been involved in strengthening the medical services in hospitals, and the Council of State was also concerned about it. It's a wide bet area. We have heard that in Norwegian hospitals there is a doctor in two patients and in the hospitals one doctor in 180 patients – a huge difference. If we start talking, we know that from 2002 to 2004, the number of medical doctors increased by 8.3 pst., or 810 pst., while in the municipal health service there was only a little over 4 pst., 167 pst., i.e. five times higher in the specialist health services than in the municipal health services. With these actual developments, it won't be easy to achieve the ambitious goal, and my question to the Council of State is, does the Council of State have concrete solutions on how to achieve this ambitious goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e968	Yes, I have good faith and hope for a good cooperation with the municipalities and organisations in the area to achieve this. For example, the fact that we are now taking home medical care into education is very important. The fact that we will continue to provide significant funds to municipalities to employ more people in this way is also a very important measure, and not least that we are now opening up tour services in hospitals. We have experience that many people have the end of their tour work in hospitals, and that is good, because many of them choose to work in hospitals afterwards. So do we. But if more people get an insight into how exciting and interesting it is to work in today's nursing home and how it's going to be in the future, we think it might also be a contribution to getting more doctors into a nursing home. We're working very closely, not least with the Medical Association, considering how we're going to get this into practice. The development so far shows that we're on the right track, and I hope and believe we're going to make the increase of 50 pst. in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e973	The Council of State regrets this, and you have to listen to it when it is said in the staging room. She regrets that there was no settlement on this matter. So do I. But it should not come as a surprise to the Council of States, because the requirement for an obliging economic action plan by the Christian People's Party has been there from day one – in the letter we sent to the parties, in the meeting we had with the Council of State in the Department, and in the meeting of the Council of State in the National Government of the Christian People's Party on this very matter. Therefore, it is disappointing that it was not the Government's will to do what the Workers' Party and the other government parties did in connection with the escalation plan for mental health. They called on the government to submit a proposal for an obligatory action plan for the psychiatric community, an economic obliging escalation plan. So you're not willing to do that when it comes to the country's caregivers and the elderly, at least not that far. But I have a slight hope that the Council of State will adjust the course, and that she will use another opportunity here in the Chamber to say that the matter we will come to the harvest will contain an obliging economic progress plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e978	I believe the government and government parties here in the house have said very clearly that we are interested in cooperation, and I am very pleased with the initiative that the representative Hajbråten took in relation to it. In fact, I also feel that we agree on the main direction of care for the elderly and the care of others who need it. I believe that the government has said very clearly from and committed us very clearly when it comes to spending a lot more money to build up the necessary number of hospitals and nursing homes, and to spend a lot more money on the municipalities to get more people employed. We have also announced in the Health Care Plan 2015, which is binding, and which is escalating. Then the government comes back with this as a separate matter in connection with the state budget, where we will follow up on what we have notified in the care notification, and evaluate the measures that are in place, of course also sent by Stortinget. I'm sorry that this stranded on the fact that the Christian People's Party was so blatant that they wanted a proposition. I honestly believe that people out there are concerned about what offers they get, and there I think there's a lot to agree on still.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e987	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e990	This is a case that has created high expectations in the population, because a number of media surveys have shown that there are considerable differences between municipalities. It has also been seen that there are major shortcomings, there is a great demand for new hospitals, and there have also been cross-political statements that all parties want to do something about it. We all remember the initiative, and I actually want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party at Dagfinn Højbräten who took an initiative to try to get a broad cooperation. It also took the Council of State over, and it has, among other things, a meeting of the Council of State between all the political parties in order to try to reach an agreement. That's what I thought was very positive, and some have come out of it. Hopefully we'll get on with this, because it's very good that's in the message and the setting that exists. However, there is relatively wide disagreement about the commitment of what is now in the position and the level at which the Government intends to follow up the various proposals that lie there. There is once again some uncertainty about whether the government will follow up on what lies there and whether one will have a different development than the one we regret then in connection with the old age plan. I think everyone in this room will take on board that the aging plan that we've put behind us was largely a housing reform and no care reform. I think we'll learn from the way we set up what's going on. Then, of course, there has been a debate about whether to promote a proposition, or whether to mention it in the context of the state budget, or what to do. There can be no doubt that a proposition, i.e. an obligatory action plan is more binding than mentioning it in the context of the State budget. Then you could and would have had a much more thorough discussion than if this came more or less as a tailhang to the state budget coming to the autumn. Furthermore, it is also very strange, and that is the grant that will be announced, for investments, possibly conversions by lift and organisation. Yes, what do the municipalities have to deal with there? It would have been quite natural that at least the municipality proposal had addressed this issue, so that the municipalities know what they have to do with planning their business for, among other things. Next year. It may be that you might suspect that the reason for the withdrawal and perhaps one of the reasons why you don't want to bring the size of this now is that you have to go into a campaign for the harvest, and then you'll see what comes after that time. I hope at least that a real grant will come in. There are considerable differences between municipalities in the nature of the services provided. It is also such that your residence address is actually crucial as to whether you are getting a sick home or not. Your residence address is also what determines whether you get a certain number of home care services, home care and other measures, because the municipalities of course give different priorities. The Progress Party wants to change the funding system, but it is important to be clear that it is the funding we propose to change. Municipalities shall continue to be responsible for the availability of the offers. The municipality shall provide the individual with the assistance he/she needs. The problem is just that there are great geographical differences today. We have to change this. That is why the Progress Party wants the State to assume financial responsibility, but not the actions and the offer, and there are at least some of them clearly misunderstood from their posts. So I think it was the representative of Bohemia who was involved with it with free user choice, and I also think the representative of Skjellaa was involved with these issues, that it should not be so that ISS and others could make money on anything in health. Yeah, then I just have to say you're pretty far away. How to turn the free user choice into something negative, I don't understand. ‘Preferences’ is a positive word. ‘Fritt’ is also a positive word. Yes, you almost have to be a member of the Center Party or other parties on the left hand side to be able to turn this freedom into something negative. I really hope that you go deeper into this from the side of those parties, and that they realize that the free user choice is a value in itself. I'm just going to show you a simple example that the needs are in the municipalities. In the evening, we can read the following: «Casted out of the hospital». Reference is made to an episode at Christmastime where a patient no longer got to be in the hospital because he had a mental problem as well. We have major challenges, and it's important that we get on the track, and that we get on the track quickly, just to help as much as possible. I fully believe that the Council of State wants it. I fully believe that all the parties in this room want to do the best for the elderly. But it's quite obvious that we have different ways of achieving that goal, and if we're going to get anywhere, it's not just going to be a good thing to follow the same track that we've been doing over several years. Yes, this has actually been an ongoing debate from the 1980s on how to organise, how to get better. There has also been a discussion about the number of medical posts. We're in the situation that today's hospital is actually a mini hospital. Then it's a little strange to know that in hospital there is one doctor in two patients. In hospitals, it's an average of one doctor per day. 180 patients. It puts things a little bit into perspective. Fortunately, the message takes this into account, but there you are also quite vague. How quickly can you get a doubling of medical work in your nursing homes? For example, what do you want? to deal with the corridor patients and ready-to-print patients who are in hospital because we actually lack hospitalization? The councils themselves were in joyous numbers. Yes, it is joyous to have a growth of 3,900 yearly works in the health and care sector. The problem is that this figure is now being eaten up by sick leave, and it helps us very little with new annual work in the health and care sector if sick leave also increases. The knowledge is that we should have as many people as possible to work there and provide care, and then we must also take action to reduce sick leave. I hope you take that seriously, because at least we haven't seen that effect yet. Yes, even in order to reduce sick leave payments for the current year by NOK 2.5 billion. But it's gone the opposite way. Sickness is increasing, and this is important to take over. So yes, we need new employees. We also need to do something about the funding-related system, just to take the user seriously. If we mean what we say in a lot of contexts, that the patient should be in focus, we also have to make sure that the offers are right for it, and that there won't be much talk. I also want to face another major challenge that we have. It's getting enough specialists in geriatrics. What's the background for the deficiency here, it's hard to say anything about it. It is possible that in the past it has not been so-called status enough to train within this area. I hope we can do something there. I also hope that we will be able to arrange for tour applicants, like doctors, to be in a nursing home, but not instead, but in addition to the doctors who will be there, precisely because we need to increase our competence. We need to get more geriatrics to deal with future developments in the number of older people. I think we should be aware of one thing, and that's that the number of older people is increasing, is a desired development, and we want to give the best possible offer. But then we also have to take seriously the challenges that it presents. I am very excited about the grant that is announced to come to the autumn. But I'm afraid that because it's so vague, and because you don't want to give better signals than what you've done up until now, about how this is to be arranged and the size of it, you could have a problem with the expansions of the year. I hope this doesn't happen, and I'm looking forward to the autumn and we're going to get a real grant. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1031	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1034	Every day, health professionals throughout the country use all their knowledge and power to make people healthy or enable them to live with their illnesses and disabilities. Storing and government requires, through their budgets, that more and more research is being carried out into the use of ever-increasingly improved drugs and treatment methods. Many of the results affect our life span. We get older, but no one has any assurances that they do not need care and care. Many people need care and care at a young age. It is important to stress that this message also addresses young people with different disabilities, who for various reasons need care and care. But that's a fact we can't forget: 70 pst. by the elderly, they are seagoing. 10 pst. must have large care resources. Then we have an obvious challenge in making sure that the 20 pst. which is in the middle, does not end up among the 10 pst. This service message takes into account just that – more hands, better quality, better medical coverage, more research and not least more everyday quality, as everything from the good meal to more activity that gives life a better content. This applies not least to many young people with care needs who are not allowed to participate in activities adapted to their age. Many places around the country are given a lot of good quality in care, but that is not what characterizes the statements. What's wrong with our care? Norwegian health services, care for the elderly and care of the physically and mentally handicapped keep a high standard compared to most other countries. Not least, there is great reason to rejoice that health and care are a right financed from public budgets. The care notification puts the elderly and the younger people with other needs for care on the agenda. That in itself is a good tool. We need to cancel the status of working in the health and care sector, as the committee leader was also involved in his post, and we need more respect for those who are unable to cope with their daily lives without help. We don't want a society where we're graduated from age. Parents cannot be treated in the same way as 40-year-olds. Young people with a need for care and care cannot be treated on the same schedule as the old ones. I actually think we need more solidarity between generations. A good society will be a society of solidarity between those who are healthy, and those who are sick, between those who are young, and those who are old. We must seek to find a balance in our view of old and young. This message has focused on the prevention work. We know that social isolation, lack of exercise and mental stimuli lead to inconsistency and depression in old and young. It is important to strengthen the activity in this area. It will create a warmer society and save the community for large expenses. Parents who stay in physical form receive social and cultural refills. They stay fresh longer. They are a resource for any community. Prevention and voluntary work can go hand in hand. It's really taking care of me. We are very pleased that we have a government council that shows respect and has a sincere commitment to this matter. The right has agreed most of this message. I'm one of those people who's been so happy about it. It becomes more a game for the gallery than a reality when Right Loves to present the great disagreement about future care. Those who had to read this message will wonder when they read what kind of suggestions the right hand side is on beyond what is in the configuration. In the case of the Christian People's Party, they express so much disappointment at the Government and so little joy at the result. I'm not going to get upset about that, but I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1060	St.meld. No 25 assumes that we will have a doubling of the number of elderly caregivers in 35 years. However, it is important, I think, to stress that the future care policy must also be designed to meet the needs of the younger caregivers. There has been a doubling of this user group in the last 10 years. This reflects a greater responsibility for municipalities through different reforms, including: for people with developmental disabilities and mental illness, as the Council of State also stated. This presents the care service with a new challenge. More and more people need services to master their daily lives through an entire life cycle. They shall have children, young people, spouses and parents despite living with a disability or illness. Of course, it is a fundamental requirement that everyone should receive the services they need when they need it. But we're going to have higher ambitions than that. All shall be given the opportunity to live a life of independence and purpose in common with others. In that case, it is not enough to have an offer of home or hospital facilities, which have traditionally met many of the needs of older caregivers. The right is pleased that the Committee supports our proposals to provide more opportunities for assistance in the form of citizen-led personal assistance, BPA. The goal is greater freedom in everyday life for those who need the BPA tool, so that they can get help to control their own everyday life. One of those who have used this arrangement, Tormod Omholt-Jensen, describes it as follows: ‘BPA is a tool that enables me to live my life in a way that I like. BPA is the prerequisite, among other things, that I can have work and the prerequisite for working in a couple relationship.» The cooperative management extended the right to help in the form of BPA to include, inter alia: families with disabled children and people in need of assistance to take on the role of manager, e.g. those with developmental disabilities. The Brustad State Council promised more than a year and a half ago to follow up on the proposals of the Swedish Cooperative Government to provide more people with comprehensive assistance needs with assistance in the form of user-led personal assistance. Once again, we record that the government parties indicate that a draft consultation will be drawn up. I hope that this work can be given a higher priority in the future. I would also like to ask the State Council to note that the entire Committee supports the Right’s comment that everyone should have the right to receive assistance to take responsibility for the employer through ULOBA. Today, the municipalities decide this on behalf of those who need help. The share of ULOBA was founded 15 years ago by pioneers who wanted greater freedom and management of their own lives for people with a need for help. These pioneers were part of an international ‘independent living’ movement. In 2005, ULOBA had 530 unit-holders in charge of more than 3000 assistants in 93 municipalities and urban areas. As the Right sees it, the paper shows an exemplary example of how private enterprises contribute to their involvement in a forward-looking development of the service offer. The right considers that a boost to rehabilitation and rehabilitation must be the next major health policy effort. Today, health services use a lot of resources to save lives, but those who are rescued also have a claim to a decent life after the accident, the damage, or the disease that has hit them. According to a study carried out by SINTEF, the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation in many stages fails. Parents with disabled children experience that they do not get the help they need in order for their children to develop in line with their potential. In its 2006 report, the Health Authority notes that there is no equivalent rehabilitation provision for children across the country. I have personally been in contact with families who in the last year have had to move from one edge of the country to another to get what they want for their children. Just 50 pst. seriously damaged persons are offered early rehabilitation and thus a chance to recover all necessary functions. People are dying in line pending an offer of drug treatment. A rise in habilitation and rehabilitation will primarily be an investment in the quality of life of many people. It's about giving people who are affected by illness, injury or disability, a new chance to master everyday life and manage without help. That's why the right has already gone 500 million. kr in its alternative budget for this purpose. We hope the government parties will follow in next year's budget, as the Council of State has today committed itself to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1083	Good and safe care for the elderly is about human dignity and security when you need help from others at the end of a long life. In the Grand elections, all parties promised to invest in care for the elderly, which unfortunately is not the case in all the municipalities of the country. In several of the red-green municipalities, care for the elderly is still a priority. Single rooms are converted into twin rooms, nursing homes are converted into day-old homes and home care services are kept at a minimum level. This is done in a wide range of municipalities where the Workers' Party and SV govern, despite Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg promised 10,000 new hands in the care sector and no tax relief until it came to light by the care of the elderly. This is despite the fact that, in the election campaign, Sylvia Brustad, Minister of Health and Welfare, is fond of blackmailing and spreading malpractices about the care of the elderly in non-socialist-run municipalities, such as the United Kingdom. Oslo. St.meld. No In the opinion of the Progress Party, 25 does not contribute to better and warmer care for the elderly. The concrete measures we had hoped the Government would come with are missing. Rather, the Storting Communication adds to the continuation of today’s care for the elderly, with great differences and bursting offers around the country. If this government – which in the election campaign was so concerned about reducing the differences between people – is to take care of the elderly and ensure a good offer throughout the country, the whole funding model needs to be reformed. For the Progress Party, it is essential that the elderly and caregivers are ensured a good, humane and predictable care for the elderly, regardless of which part of the country they live in. The safest way to achieve this is to finance the care of the elderly through government-designated unit prices. Elder care is too important for local politicians to be able to use it as a balancing post. There are thousands of caregivers who don't have time or energy to wait for the next municipal elections to see if politicians come up with other priorities. The Progress Party is committed to local democracy, but care for the elderly is too important for the responsibility for funding to lie with the municipalities. As long as the municipalities continue to have financial responsibility for the care of the elderly, the differences and inequalities will remain there. We'll never be able to guarantee the population a better care for the elderly with today's funding system. The care message also does not provide for increased freedom of choice for users. The Government continues to be more concerned with cleaning up political and ideological chauffeurs than with letting go of all warm hands who want to participate in the job of providing good elderly services. Why should it be so that we can choose between private and public kindergartens for our children, while the elderly and caregivers should not be allowed to choose whether home care or home care should come from a non-profit or a private enterprise? Only the elderly in a few municipalities are so lucky that they can choose who they want to receive care from. This right should have been statutory, so that the inhabitants of other parts of the country, not just. in Oslo, can enjoy this freedom. In Oslo a few years ago, a trial project was launched in a district where users could choose home help themselves. The scheme was a success. 87 pst. of those who exercised the right to choose were satisfied with the scheme. Today, free choice of home help is introduced throughout Oslo. Also the free choice of home care is on the stairs in the capital. The Progress Party is pleased that Minister of Health and Health Sylvia Brustad has not used his power to stop the use of private home help, private home care or private hospitals in the municipalities, as the Government did with the boarding schools when they got power. This cannot be seen as anything but a confession from the Minister that private actors provide very good and warm care for the elderly in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1109	The challenges we will face in the future in the care of the elderly and those in need of care are reflected in the Communication ‘Teaching, opportunities and meaning’. The message gives a good description. It offers many solutions to what needs to be done and what can be done in the future to get better and best care. The population of Norway is getting older and older, and the number of younger users in need of care is increasing. Several survive with diseases that were once fatal, and that's good, but it gives us new challenges to solve. Medical science allows us to deliver good quality of life beyond what was possible just a few years ago. Good care and good care in our institutions also make people live longer. All of this requires greater efforts by the public, and it is public, in the view of the Workers' Party, who should be responsible for well-being. We show it concretely by strengthening the local economy. It is in the municipalities that the services are to be provided, because it is where life is lived. Through a coherent approach to how we want care to be in Norway, we can provide good services – services that are independent of the individual’s economy, geography and social status. National strategies are therefore necessary, and the strategy pursued by the Government in St.meld. No 25, covers different areas that we think need to be in place if we're going to succeed. We agree with each other politically on a lot in the big message. But when the Progress Party is talking about the right to choose, that is. user choice, we disagree with that. We believe that precisely by strengthening public welfare, people are given the opportunity to choose what their daily lives are like and what kind of care is needed. When the Progress Party talks about user choice, I hear privatisation – no matter what definition the representative chooses. Our solution is not more private providers of health services, but strengthening and building public services. We don't believe that one in situations where one needs care, necessarily has profits and the ability to act of care. It also doesn't give you equal rights if you think about our long-range country, with many small municipalities. Which private supplier will establish itself in the small municipalities in the districts? No, let's learn from what's happened, for example. in Nacka, a Swedish municipality that was the exhibition window for the right when it came to free user choice. Nacka is today a municipality with large class divisions, where egoism is put in place. Community thought is perplexing, budget deficits are increasing, and many are dissatisfied. That's not the kind of care we want. I do not believe that there is a great demand in the Norwegian people to be able to choose between different hospitals or home help companies. I think everyone will have good deals in their own vicinity, which ensures the need when help is needed. Care is not an area suitable for competition. It is not that competition necessarily creates better quality of service. We can see that in the examples from Nacka – and also from Oslo. Competition is about getting the price down to win the tender. Care is not an item that we're going to measure or balance. The care message places great emphasis on the human resources to work in the sector. It is clarified that it is important and necessary for those who work in the care sector to have the skills to care for those who need care. It is necessary as regards the professionalism of medical, the knowledge of observation, and what is mentioned here in relation to ethics. Future challenges are to get young people to train in the field of health and also to get more men to seek out the professions. Here one has to think about several arenas. The Telemark pilot project, ‘Men in care professionals’ referred to in the setting, may provide possible tips and solutions. Getting more full-time jobs and living pay is necessary. Who wants to educate themselves into uncertain incomes, where you have to keep trying to find another fraction to get a full salary? To get more people to take up education – and not least stay there – we need to get this in place. Here the municipalities have an opportunity to make a great effort. Figures from the trade union show that if all those who work part-time, who want to work full-time, had the opportunity to do so, it would mean thousands more annual work. Full-time positions also give continuity, which many people need. Providing care means meeting people in vulnerable situations. Continuity provides security and tranquillity, and this is particularly important in demented and troubled nursing departments. The cancellation message gives us many good answers and gives us a lot of work to do, but the goal can only be achieved through interaction between the municipalities and the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1132	Initially, I would like to see the communication of care in conjunction with the recently submitted strategy to address social health inequalities. The goal of giving all the same opportunities regardless of social background, who they are, and where they come from, is important that we also have with us in the care policy. The goal must be to create a society where everyone has the same opportunities to live long and good lives, and therefore we have to have an elderly care where resources reach those who need it the most. The debate on how to organise care for the elderly, as marked by the 2005 election campaign, is one of the main questions about strengthening or reducing health inequalities in Norway. We need more resources and more hands. In order to raise the level of elderly care for all government parties in the election campaign, they promised to put in place 10,000 new annual work in the care sector during the ageing period. Half the year after that, we're on track. As a result, the main care policy approach taken after the government change in the autumn of 2005 is that municipalities together have received DKK 18 billion more to travel with. This government strongly believes in local democracy, that it is proximity and local knowledge that provide the best opportunities to have an individualised service offering with enhanced user involvement. Then also showed an investigation that 81 pst. by municipalities will increase the number of annual shifts in care and care in 2007. A well-developed decentralised healthcare service also contributes to greater social equality in the provision of services. So most studies point out that daily life, meals, activity, social and cultural conditions are the main weaknesses of today's care services. Therefore, the Government wants to focus on culture, activity and well-being as central and fundamental elements of a comprehensive care provision. This also requires greater professional scope with a place for several occupational groups, so that care provision is better suited than at present to social needs and is given a more active profile. There is also a need for better interaction and medical follow-up. When both nursing homes and nursing homes are mainly made available for long-term housing, it is difficult to have adequate short-stay accommodation, which is important for good interaction between municipal services and specialist health services. The need for a better medical and multidisciplinary follow-up relates in particular to people with chronic and complex disorders, dementia, mental health problems and others with a need for coordinated services from both the specialist health service and the municipal health and social services. The use of ICT, telemedicine and new care technologies can help prevent institutionalisation, increase user independence from auxiliaries and improve local medical provision. Then I want to say the following: There are too few debates about the different desires we have for what reality should be, and too many conflicts that arise because one has different perceptions of what reality is. In the context of Storting’s treatment of the care message, some representatives from the previous government constellation through the media have used words such as the failure of the government parties to the elderly. Well, I have a different view of reality. According to new data from the Central Statistical Office, the growth rate in annual care and care was 3.5 pst. in 2006. That equals 3,900 more annual works. The second largest growth after 2000 was in 2001, under the government of Stoltenberg I. Then the growth was 2.4 pst., 2 400 more annual works. During the Bondevik II government, growth was never over 2 pst. And even in the best year, it was less than 2,100 new year's work. The average from 2002 to 2005 was an annual growth of 1 600 yearly works. In fact, more than just the number of annual work is significant for the quality of the care sector. But how many hands you have in relation to the number of older people is still one of the best indicators we have. In politics, unfortunately, a person may often want to give his opponents a few hints. It may be tempting for the opposition. It can be tempting for the government parties, and it can be tempting for me. The fact that different policymakers prioritise older policy responses in different order should be lacking. However, in such an important debate on such an important communication, liberalism should be exercised more than claiming that the majority is failing the elderly – at least when the growth of the care sector already in the first year of a red-green government is greater than the growth of the best year of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1166	It has not been many years since rapporteurs in many municipalities complained about poor local economy. I allow myself to take some excerpts from a May 2005 survey, which reflects a little bit of the situation of poor local economy and its consequences. Kommune-Norge was grounded, and many of the rapporteurs who were asked said they had to cut in the care of the elderly. In the municipality of Tvedestrand, it was said that in 2005 they had to cut off jobs in care and care. Especially bad was it in the Solstua dement department. In Karmøy, the elderly received less help, and progress party-driven Tjøme said they had to cut off the staff in nursing homes for mentally retarded people. On the right, the Hof ruled in Vestfold and said they had to cut down on the tasks they were to perform in health and social care. The list of examples I could keep going, but I'll stop here. For Kommune-Norge today is a happy day. Recent figures from the Statistical Centre show that the number of employees in municipalities increased sharply from 2005 to 2006. Converted from a percentage point of view, growth represents a total of 8,500 annual works. The largest growth has been in care and care for a total of 3,900 more annual works. When we include the increase after the government change in 2005 of 2,500, this is going to add up to 6,400. This promises good for the goal of 10,000 new annual work in the care of the elderly. This shows that the Government is in a good position to deliver. The growth is very joyful and confirms that the municipalities use the money they have received after the government change, for more well-being for the inhabitants. The care message we are dealing with today is particularly pleasing to Kommune-Norway. The Government states that from 2008 onwards, municipalities will receive grants for the construction of new hospitals, nursing homes and for making existing housing more suitable, including: making the block-building more accessible by lifts. This benefits citizens in an excellent way and will increase the quality of life for many. With this, we will replace the extraordinary grants used under the Senior Care Action Plan with a new long-term scheme. Some people want to build already this year, such as Halden municipality, which is ready to build a care centre with 80 residents, and the municipality of Molde can now start building a new nursing home. This is now possible for these municipalities and all other municipalities in Norway by applying for grants in arrears. This is important for municipalities not to postpone construction plans in 2007 pending a new grant scheme next year. This follows the Government in the 2008 state budget, as it will bring its own case on the follow-up to the care notification. In particular, the comments of the Health and Care Committee have followed up the proposals in the care communication on the challenges of dents, medical treatment in hospitals, the relief of dying, the prevention of loneliness through activities, better conditions for relatives with long-term and demanding care tasks, etc. Kommune-Norge has been struggling for too many years with good plans and good intentions in this area without any special money being followed up. Now that the government follows up with concrete means, the situation becomes quite different. I am today on behalf of the entire Municipality of Norway very happy. There is reason to rejoice when you have such a well-worked message for treatment. Now the municipalities know what they have to deal with for years to come. This is important, because it is out in the municipalities the welfare is created.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1189	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1192	This debate is an important debate for many people. Younger people with disabilities, older people with care, relatives and employees in the health and care sector have seen to it that there is a follow-up to the development of nursing homes and nursing homes that focus on the quality of services. It does St.meld. No 25-digit number The large expansion of dwellings adapted to the elderly and disabled outside the municipalities has been absolutely necessary. But what is happening now, with a strong focus on building interdisciplinary competence and research in the sector, is also absolutely necessary. It is a long step in the right direction to focus on competence and quality rather than on efficiency and competitive outsourcing, which was the last government award for health and care. There are several areas in which the Communication focuses, which will have the greatest impact on the future development of the healthcare sector. I want to take some of those that also affect the education and research sector. We are to maintain and expand the educational capacity both in secondary and higher education in the health and care sectors. It is important to meet the challenges of the future. However, it is vital that we develop a care sector that is attractive as a job for young people. This will ensure that we get enough applicants for the training places we have. The agreement with the municipalities to make full time the usual and part-time what we choose is perhaps the most important factor in addition to increasing the number of annual works. We also focus on getting more apprenticeship places for health professionals in municipalities and in specialist health services. Nursing training is changing with a greater focus on care at home and home-based care. It is also gratifying that it is proposed that doctors should have hospitalised their tour services. This and increased attention to inter-disciplinary cooperation in the sector will be essential to improve recruitment and quality over time. Today we have a large section of unskilled people in the care sector. In St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, to be treated just over Easter, we focus on lifelong learning and the opportunities and rights of adults to education. Just in the care sector, we have many candidates who can take adult education, based on the real skills they possess. We shall ensure that this is facilitated both by law and by the organisation of training provision. It is also with great pleasure that I record that one will now also have regional research centres to carry out practical research. The fact that these are anchored in higher education is a great opportunity for them to conduct research-based education based on their own research and yet another opportunity to contribute to regional development. When this research is also linked to teaching homes and thus obliges municipalities, it is something that I think could contribute to a high level of quality for the sector. This has been a major waste of time in the past, when the municipalities have carried out major reforms, such as: Psychiatric reform. I'm attending the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1211	We, who work on a daily basis in the Health and Care Committee, know so deeply that none of the politicians from the government parties are satisfied with the message being discussed today. The matter has been trained, it has been exposed, they have not been impressed by the various things they have wanted, and today, in a sense, the politicians from the government parties in the Health and Care Committee are working as sand agents for the Government and the bureaucracy. It is therefore a paradox that more or less all of the cases in the notification must return to the Stortinget. A number of action plans are needed to return to Stortinget. Had this message of care been a thoughtful and good message, this would have been completely unnecessary. Then we had a good message for treatment. Unfortunately, we don't have it. I experience this as unworthy of both Stortinget and, not least, of those who need care. This is an unworthy way of treating the elderly. It is also amazing to listen to workers' party politicians like Jan Bøhler, who say that our funding model does not belong in this world. When we claim that in health, care and school, funding should follow the individual, it is such that the models of care for the elderly have actually been available for a long time. Elder care in Norway has been under constant debate since the mid-1980s. Can we today beat ourselves to the chest and say that in the care of the elderly you have included enough of them? Have elderly people been included and included with the weakest in society? No, you don't. That is why every year and every election we have had a debate related to the elderly. So with a differentiated price financing, it's not like we're taking tasks from the municipalities. Municipalities shall continue to ensure that care for the elderly is carried out in a decent and professional manner. The only – and largest – difference is that it is financed directly by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1225	When I heard the representative Fredriksen, I thought: Here it was dark – «fridge black». We've been so easy to put people in booths – and talk about the elderly as a group of nurturing people. Fortunately, it's not like that. The Communication focuses on activation, well-being and social responses. It is important that older people also have access to cultural services. The Ministry of Health and Welfare, together with the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church, has cooperated on the establishment of the Cultural Spa. There is good promise for increased well-being for the elderly both inside and outside institutions. Loneliness has unfortunately become a popular disease. Elder centres are a good example of prevention measures that counteract solitude, inactivity and social withdrawal. The other day, I saw a program about some elderly people who had started dancing for the elderly — a great action, creating social community and joy. In addition, dancing is a fine physical activity. I would like to commend the Department for seeing the whole – from the active elderly to those who need a lot of care and care. In particular, I would ask the Council of State to look at the funding scheme for resource-intensive users. It is absolutely necessary to provide them with a good and predictable service, regardless of the financial situation in each municipality. In Hedmark, several municipalities have developed a good supply for resource-intensive users, but have to wait for other services – due to the economic situation of the municipality. The government has invested in the municipal economy, and of course, much has been relieved by the promise made by the government to the municipality of Norway. The Communication points to a number of concrete measures to strengthen the specialist healthcare system. I agree with the Committee, which believes it is important to train and recruit specialised health professionals who can meet older patients with complex disorders in a qualitatively good way. There is a need to increase the multidisciplinary competence of the elderly in the areas of health, interaction, professional development and research. The Government Parties state that from 2008 onwards, municipalities will receive grants for the construction of hospitals and nursing homes – and for the construction of lifts in block buildings. I would like to commend the Council of State for the pilot project that was launched at the time when the Council of State was the municipal minister. Elevators in blocks are important, and the project on the west of Hamar, for which the Council of State is to be honored, has been successfully carried out. Several older people can live longer in their homes. [[The President clubs.]] I think it is important to remember that old people are young people who have grown older. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1244	The President must ask the representative to deal with the stated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1247	The representative, Nesvik, was involved in language usage. He said that it's not possible to be against free user choice – because it's freedom, and that's choice. I want to remind the representative Nesvik that language is power, and that people have often tried to cover up the different aspects of society by using a thriving language – which is attractive, and which makes it almost impossible to oppose it. I want to go a little bit more into so-called free user choice. It is important to bear in mind that care is not a product that has specific production objectives and that can be priced and marketed in the same way as a dishwasher or refrigerator. This would be unnecessary, but we see that many believe that the public sector is slow and inefficient, and that the introduction of market principles in the care of the elderly – either pure market principles or hybrid variants – will make it both efficient and good. Both privatisation, outsourcing, so-called free choice of use and the money-follower-patient or user believe that we are a threat to ideals such as justice, security, equality and community. And we think that will lead to a lot of bureaucracy, detail management and extra work for relatives. It is so nice to talk about free choice, but free choice should be more than choosing a company logo, which has actually been the case here in the capital. Asking the elderly, they will stress that the most important thing for them is the certainty that once they get help, they will get enough help. There's a lot of freedom in that. Secondly, the need for help is greater influence on the content of the aid. The elderly in the capital, for example, believe that: home help services are far too square. The help in Oslo is based on a detailed decision form which is not to be deviated. It does not help that the older person one day would also have help to shop some technical aids at the store, when the assistant’s work form explicitly states that the windows are to be washed today. Such a quadrupleness has more reason to become sour. If there is something just that characterises old age and disease, there is an unstable form and an unstable need for assistance. The need for help varies from day to day. Therefore, flexible services are needed. Oslo SV has proposed a pilot project in which the older seas should have a decisive influence on how the aid is to be implemented. Stockholm has had a successful pilot project on this. The proposal was as follows: ‘A pilot project is established on the basis of an overall objective of giving older people greater influence over their own lives. It is also a goal that the project can be included as part of the work of the Municipality of Oslo to prevent major relief needs. Real freedom of choice also in relation to the tasks to be carried out could give older people greater security and quality of life.» But no – the proposal was voted down, by the same people who believe that freedom of choice is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1267	I have read the message and the setting with great interest and listened to the debate here today. I am pleased that it focuses on the future main challenges for the care sector, and that it is the user who is at the centre. I am also pleased that the situation is much brighter than the presentation just made by the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen from this pulpit. I'm going to focus on rehabilitation and habilitation today. In 1999 I was given the opportunity to be the case rapporteur for St.meld. No 21 for 1998-1999, the so-called ‘rehabilitation message’. In the work on this matter, I got a good fit in all aspects of this subject. I came to know in depth both the users' and the professionals' assessment of what such offers mean for users themselves, their families and for society as a whole. My conclusion is that rehabilitation and rehabilitation are essential for the quality of life of both the user and his closest. Especially for chroniclers, such offers are essential for them to cope with everyday life. Such offers undoubtedly help to alleviate the suffering, but also to increase the degree of self-drivingness and well-being in everyday life. I have spoken to many people who believe that such offers enable them to be in work and to make up for themselves in the day-to-day. This tells us that making such offers is also a good social economy. In view of this reality, ambitious targets were set for the treatment of the 1999 rehabilitation notification for the development of these services. When I hear that many still lack such offers, and that the offers in the training institutions have been reduced, I am concerned about whether we can make good enough offers in this area. I'm glad that the government has also focused on this area, and that the Soria Moria statement clearly states that everyone who needs rehabilitation and training will get this, but it's urgent to move on. Here it is about offering that increases the quality of human life and that will therefore pay off for society. This is of utmost importance for success both in an inclusive working life and in getting a good quality of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1282	In a reading in several newspapers, party leaders Dagfinn Højbråten poses a surprising, bold question: ‘How can the red-greens see older people in the eyes of the autumn election campaign and say that they want to secure all a worthy old age?’ This question comes from the Christian People’s Party, which for four years in the Bondevik II government contributed to the starving feeding of the municipalities, and which assigned new tasks to the municipalities without compensation, for example. it has been restated that patients were ready for printing and a municipal responsibility instead. I'd like to enjoy the Christian People's Party: the Center Party is very happy to be part of a government that in two years has secured $18 billion more for the municipalities. Our government has a government council that can stand here today and say in two years more than 5,000 more annual works will be in place in the health and care sector. She can present a big message with five strategies for better care, and also announce a case in connection with the 2008 budget. To a great extent, we can look both young and old in the eye! Then I have some questions for the Progress Party, because today they have a proposal for a conversion of Norwegian care for the elderly. They offer, as I understand, a standard solution – the state will cover the expenses, transfer money to people and have them shop for care services themselves. I'm assuming that the Progress Party is also clear that maybe as much as 80 pst. of patients in hospitals today are demented. I assume that when the Progress Party asks the Government to draw up such a plan, it is because they do not know how to solve this either. The experience of the Center Party is that the best services are designed with the caring, they add and they touch. The municipalities are closer to those who need care than the state bureaucracy is. Kindness is important. We want to add that has time and space to care. They're supposed to listen to children, sick and old. They should see them, and they should adapt them to their needs. I have to ask the Progress Party: how is this to be included with time and with custom services in a funding system? Can the Progress Party show to any country where this is tested?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1295	The Storting Communication mentions the commitment to skills building as important. In addition to recruitment, it is also important to build skills for those already in the professions. This is mentioned earlier, but there are many unskilled people in the care professions, and they are helping to keep the wheels going. Unskilled people are a very important resource, but they must also have the opportunity to receive education. And it needs to be facilitated, so that the majority of those who work – and most of those who work in care – have a good basic knowledge. It's important, not only for those who need care, but also for the individual employee. In order to create exciting environments where development and recruitment are involved, there needs to be a variety of professional skills that can play on a team. We know that in good trade unions things happen a lot new. It is also easier to recruit, because it is spreading in local settings that there are good jobs where exciting things happen. Where there is development and ability to think new, there will be good work environments, which will benefit the caregiver. This will again be seen on sick leave and well-being. A broad professional environment is therefore positive for all – for employees, for patients and for employers. Recruitment is important, but we have made it clear in our remarks that we do not want to take labour from countries that need it themselves, which can happen quickly because we can offer more attractive jobs and better pay. Instead, we need to strengthen our own recruitment and gain the skills of those who are already in the profession. There is not only one solution, there are many, and everyone has to be tested. In several articles, the Progress Party has been concerned with local democracy. But in the same sentence, they say that the state should decide and decide, and they talk about unworthy discharge from responsibility by the municipalities. The question and the question from here is: do they not trust their own local politicians? If we look at Nøtterøy and Tjøme, I understand that they don't trust them. There's the Progress Party that rules. It may not be the good examples to mention that in progressive party-driven municipalities, care is not as good as it is said from the pulpit. Are these the examples that the representative refers to as good? There they actually sit with a majority, where they can have their policies implemented from a to b, and that's perhaps the concern that we can see on Nutøy and on Tjøme, which the Progress Party wants in its society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1309	A good measure if you want to increase recruitment could be to ask the Minister of Knowledge not to shut the door for adults who want to qualify in this area, as he has proposed in the new Private School Act. I have two brief comments. I challenged the council of state in a line change when it came to a statement she had at the NRK this morning. Unfortunately, it was not for the Council of State to comment in its reply. This is an opinion that stated that the current government, in order to strengthen the health sector, had proposed to change the percentage of input-driven funding and basic funding. It was actually the last government that did. I would like the Council of State to correct what she herself has said. A small note to the representative Fallet, who was all over with enthusiasm over the cultural spaser stick. I will not go into the content, but I think for my part that it is one of the most tasteless images that has been launched. It is almost on the height of the Minister of Knowledge’s ‘sleeping’ — as metaphorically considered. I think the government offering a little imagination could find far better ways to express itself if you want to step up your efforts than to bring out the'spare stick'. So for the most part in this debate. Governments used ‘optional’ and ‘user choice’ as positive terms. The representatives of Thorkildsen and Mandt-Bartholsen have in two posts each directed the shooting at exactly what the Council of State said positively. If you are in principle opposed to freedom of choice, it should be made clear, because freedom of choice – it is no more complicated than that – requires that there is more than one offer to choose from. Otherwise, there is no freedom of choice. It doesn't have to be more complicated. The Council of State said that broad cooperation had been sought across politics. I believe that. In fact, in the committee, we also thought that we were about to achieve a unanimous position that would follow up this communication and the debate today with a long-term commitment. Therefore, the surprise was great and real from all the opposition parties when we received feedback after ‘time out’ that the government parties could not attend. Then my particular impression of this debate is that the representatives of the government parties in the trade committee were as disappointed as the opposition. This can well explain why their efforts in this debate have been so tame.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1322	One thing I've noticed when I've been working on this matter before, is that a lot of statistics are used, statistics are very difficult to compare, and statistics are difficult to use if you're going to see how an offer really is. This applies, inter alia, to: statistics in relation to nursing homes — who has day care and who is only served by open care. It concerns home services — who are users. Are they the younger ones, or are they the older ones? And what about how these services are distributed in relation to what should be the real need? It also applies to mental disorders. I was with the SSB a little while ago and was presented with a new overview of how mental disorders were divided into different age groups. There it was actually stated that the elderly who were in the institution were not included. So in that statistics, it looked like mental disorders in the elderly were falling sharply compared to younger ones. I think it's important to have statistics that are useful. In the case of single rooms, the message states that 95 pst. of all the rooms in the nursing home now are exclusive. But if you look at Sarpsborg, it turns out that about half of the hospital residents live in double rooms. What it must be useful to know in a statistics is how much of the hospital population there is that has exclusive space, not how many exclusives there are. So I would like to say a little bit about the freedom of choice and direct financing of care services. The progress party has never said or intended that 80-year-old dentures will be required to choose an offer. We are fully aware, as was also said in my post, of the proportion of the elderly who are demented in nursing homes. We're actually coming. We also do not want to deliver a check to the elderly and caregiver or money in cash in the account. What is at issue is that care services to which the elderly are entitled must be paid from the State to the service provider. Whether it's a private or a public hospital is then breaking indifferent, only that patient gets good care. It can often be useful with freedom of choice. It may be when an old mother or father lives alone in the home and the closest relatives – the children – have moved to another place, that the time comes when you no longer manage and have to have a home. Would it not then be nice to be able to apply for a sick place near children or relatives without thinking about which municipality you belong to. We have problems with palliative care, swing door spaces, resource-intensive users. You talk about everyone needing their own funding to be cared for. This also applies to holiday municipalities which have high costs for holidaymakers who eventually need care services. This shows that we need a different funding, we need the money to follow the offer that users need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1335	I want to address some of the things I see as the most important in the message and not least in the setting, namely the role of hospitals. It's about the sickest elderly in our municipalities. Several have been involved, and we know that there are a lot of swing door spaces, patients going in and out of hospitals despite being in hospital. We want to avoid that in the future. I think if we're going to avoid this, we have to be able to create more holistic services between the first and second line services. I'm thinking about both cooperation and coordination. But there is also the status, working environment and professional development of nursing homes. I want to draw up some of the proposals in such a way that we should do this in a better way, as the opposition parties – whether individually or collectively – have proposed, and on which the government parties have not wanted to be evaluated or involved. It goes into this whole thing. This applies, for example: the action plan for special care for the elderly, which we believe should also be integrated for the sickest of the elderly in the community health service, precisely because it is the same as the sickest of the patients concerned. We also have a thought about a new education for doctors in nursing homes, in home health care, master's education for nurses and others with higher education – that we should not have the type of education we have today, but that it should be upgraded to a master's degree. As far as I have heard, continuing adult education through high school is ensured by the new proposal for the law on free schooling. It's positive. In the case of authorisation schemes for some health professionals or for those who work in the health sector and who per Today, the Government has said that they will review the entire authorisation system. We were kind of clear because there are professional settings about this. Furthermore, a new scheme for the financing of medical and medical equipment in hospitals would provide better predictability in the economy, and I mention guidelines to ensure multidisciplinary competence. Hospitalization should be recognised as a count of specialist training because patients in nursing homes are ill – they have more than six diagnoses each, and we think there is a lot of disease that you can really work with. I also mention that we need to ensure special skills in all municipalities, better rights for municipal rehabilitation, and that tour candidates, who have been involved in Inge Wohnung, must be provided with guidance. I don't know what's going on with all these suggestions. But we have a nursing home in Bergen where you have lots of medical positions, full-time medical positions. They have employees, either in the usual position or as supervisors. They have doctoral students, they only have specialists, as far as I know, and they have special skills in relieving treatment, and there they don't have swing door spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1346	The representative on the pay side asks whether we, the members of the government parties, are satisfied. Yes, you know what -- we're very pleased. We are very pleased to have a government that delivers a care message with such good and solid content. We're proud to have a health minister doing this. We are proud and happy and very pleased because we have a municipal minister who strengthens the municipal sector. So we're very pleased with what the government is doing in these areas. We are also very pleased that the Government is going to come back to Stortinget with a case where these five strategies on which the entire care message is based are going to be driving. In addition, one takes up a number of the proposals made by other parties and says that these are areas that you will consider. Special reference is made to the proposals on research, on the challenge of dementia, on relieving treatment, i.e. palliative treatment, in order to be able to live an active life, i.e. prevention of loneliness through day activities, etc., and better conditions for those with demanding care tasks. In fact, we are very pleased with what we have achieved through this message and the setting that is there. No one has to be in any doubt about that. In addition, the Government shall assess, inter alia: This is part of the system of autonomy in social and health services, evaluate the strengthening of the national research programme for elderly care associated with the Norwegian Research Council, guidelines to ensure the multidisciplinary competence of different types of community health professionals, the monitoring of current physiotherapy services and the review of the funding scheme for physiotherapists and measures to ensure the competence of hospitals, and ensure that in municipalities there is an employee with coordination responsibility for families who have or are awaiting a disabled child. In fact, I believe that we in the government parties have very far met the opposition and a number of the proposals that lie there. So we have a government that we trust. I don't know what it was like in the last government, when you talk about liabilities, but we know that this government keeps it actually promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1357	No Marte Thorkildsen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1361	First to Giltun, she says you don't have to choose, if you put in place a system based on so-called freedom of choice. Clearly, if the principle is introduced and a wide range of commercial players are encouraged to make money on this, it will be that those who do not choose actually make a choice, namely to become a place. What often happens, if you have a big part of commercial players, is that there will be competition that can help to drain resources from a part of the offers that are, and that those who have to become a place do not actually get a good enough offer. We are concerned that everyone should have a good offer, not just those who are strong enough or have relatives who are strong enough to make this active choice. So the question is, what is freedom of choice? Is it to be able to choose company logo, or is it to be able to influence who comes home to you and what to do? I think the concept of freedom of choice is extremely narrow in the rhetoric of the Right Party and the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1368	Like the representative, I am also a little disappointed in the debate, but in a different way. I am concerned that at Stortinget we should do a job, that we should work in the Committee and in the debates in the Chamber to improve, to be responsive and to deal with matters that we are busy doing something about. When I then hear the speeches by the representatives of Wohnung and Fredriksen – who are essentially focused on the trustworthiness of what they have experienced in the committee, and polemics against something that concerns a matter, a proposition, etc. – I am disappointed, because there are so few substantive challenges in the proposals that lie here in the vote. The proposals in addition to this, whether a proposition is to be presented or a case of its own, are essentially proposals for things that the government parties and the government have announced that we are working on, where there are no major disagreements in substance. Some of what has come up here in the debate becomes paradoxes, when, for example. The representative Nesvik shows clips from the evening about nursing homes in Oslo and people with mental disorders, when the situation is that it is his party that has the health agency. It is also in this city that you have the biggest problems around Corridor Asians. It was the representative Nesvik who pointed to that clip. I haven't read it, but he said it was from Oslo. At least it's disappointing that we get so few content challenges. In the case of user choice, an extended right to user-driven personal assistance has been proposed by the Government in a consultation note. We're not against all kinds of development. Of course, the participation of users is important, and also the freedom to choose. But it's something else to organise a comprehensive price system with a different kind of funding, which breaks up everything we've built up in the health care community. It seems that the opposition parties have searched for a profile point and a confrontation point and a little spasmodic has chosen this with a proposition/case. In it they say that we won't present a long-term and obligating plan when we don't want to say that this is to be presented as a proposition. You refer to the last time as a example of shine. Hill-Marta Solberg did not deliver any propositions, she delivered a cancellation notice when she followed up the first message. One thing can be very different, but a proposition can only be one thing. It was that time, too. I think we are going to deliver – we have delivered the number of annual works last year that we promised, which is much higher than the previous government delivered. I find it disappointing that the opposition is so concerned about judging us north and down in advance, and instead uses this debate to get further in terms of content, and to elaborate things we should work on in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1377	I think people who sit at home in the living room, whether they live at home, in a nursing home or at home in the house and need help from the municipality, are most concerned that people keep what they promise, and that one actually does it a say. That's why I'm exceptionally proud to be a member of a government that keeps what we promise. When we took over in the government, we said very clearly that our priority was to stop the continued tax relief that was going on with the richest, and that we wanted to spend money on what was most important. One of the most important things is what we've discussed today. That is why we stopped further tax relief to the richest, and it has, among other things, led us to have a misguided policy, and we have spent a lot more money on the municipalities, which makes a difference in relation to the number of employees. When we stand here and talk about the quality of this service, it's about employees having time, space and the ability to listen to those who need help, and doing what's important in each case. It is a fact that under the previous civil government, the number of employees was at a low level, because the municipalities were starving. Then I must say that it sounds a little hollow when I have heard from several representatives of the opposition parties in this debate that one is very critical that this government will not commit. We've done more than commitment, we've done something, and we've proven that we've done a lot just over a year and a half. In addition, we have committed ourselves to providing new investment grants to build more nursing homes, nursing homes, short-term places and lifts, to mention something. We have committed ourselves to a radically necessary increase in the number of doctors in hospital homes, and we have committed ourselves to doing something properly in relation to the major challenges associated with dementia. So coming to say that this government will not commit, I believe it is wrong. In addition, we have come to the opposition and said that we will come back with a case of our own, to say how we will proceed in relation to the state budget. We're going to do that. To the comment from the representative Wohnung where he challenged me in the case of ISF, it is to say that the ISF rate has gone up and down from 2003 when it was 60 p.m., in 2004 it was 40 p.m., and in 2005 it was 60 p.m. In 2006, it is right to say that it was the last Bondevik government that proposed a reduction. We've supported it, and we've kept it at that level for the current year, not least to be able to care for people with more complex disorders, who are not fast to treat, but who are very important to provide completely necessary treatment in our hospitals. This is also related to the major issue of rehabilitation, which has been discussed by several people here. There's the government's goal. We need to ensure rehabilitation for everyone who wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1388	I think it's important that we take on board that not everything in the health and care sector is wrong, which you can get the impression of sometimes. The thing is, we politicians have the task of making sure that things don't work out. That's where it's important to put the effort. Of course, I also noticed that the Council of State finally said that this government is to trust. We do, and then I'll refer to the Soria Moria statement. It says, among other things. reducing and keeping excesses to a low level. Self-esteem in the health service actually increased in the state budget. Now we see that there's a 5 pst. increase in the percentages of medical visits from 1 July. Furthermore, it was said by the Prime Minister that there was no tax relief until it came from the care of the elderly. As far as I know, it was already given tax relief in the first budget that this government provided, and it still does not shine through the care of the elderly. To Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen, who refers to Nut Island and Tjøme, I would like to say that I can refer to very good results in Tønsberg, Stranda, Fräna and other municipalities where there are prominent party rapporteurs. At the same time, there are a number of municipalities where the red-green governs, where you are not very close to the target and have a very bad offer. There is a lot of talk about care for the elderly. The care service consists of much more than just care for the elderly. In this regard, I would like to take into account the situation of those with developmental disabilities, in particular those with mental retardation. The March 2007 Health Authority report states: «In 44 of the 59 municipalities surveyed, the use of force and power was exposed in violation of the legal provisions. These municipalities do not provide sufficient systematic work on solutions other than the use of coercion and power.» I hope that you will now also look at this, because it also has to do with care, to catch up with the people who are struggling and who have difficulties. Something else that has been completely absent in this debate is the care allowance for the amazing effort that very many people are making at home. They take care of their relatives and work and labor every day. We actually have a system of enormous inequalities between municipalities in terms of the level at which you spend your care pay. I hope and believe that the Council of State and the Government are going to follow this up. What the opposition has pointed out here is that there has been insufficient commitment. You have to think a lot, you have to look at a lot, and you signal a lot of things. What is missing is the clear commitments requested by the opposition. But we look forward to the 2008 state budget and hope that there will be good action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1410	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1413	I'm glad the council corrected the statement she made, which misinformed NRK's listeners this morning. The representative of the Church is very pleased, and the other spokespersons of the Government are also very pleased. That's good. I have just pointed out that during the work in the committee, we all thought that we would succeed in reaching a unanimous conclusion. It also told the representatives of the government parties that they expected them to do so. They didn't. Therefore, there is a split setting at the main point. I still have a pretty strong feeling that the representatives of the government parties are disappointed too. They have every reason for that. One small point at the end: I went into this with doctors’ tour service and noticed with concern that the council made it mainly when she was going to explain how to get better medical coverage in a nursing home. That is why I will repeat my warning. Betting on the tour service as an answer to the need for medical competence is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1422	Vigdis Giltun has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1425	I take the floor to say something about Inga Marte Thorkildsen's concern that private service providers should hit the public service offer. Now we have a very small feature of private service providers in the home service. It would surprise me a lot if that item were to be so large that there were no public services left. Then it is only proof that the public service does not meet its objectives. There is, of course, no competition on the price of these services; there is competition on quality. I am sure that the public service will be of good quality and that it will help improve the quality of both public and private services if you have the opportunity to choose. It is not that those who do not have close relatives who can choose for themselves get good services today. The representatives of the Labour Party still provide examples of poor progress party-driven municipalities or poor right-wing municipalities, and we provide examples of labour party-driven municipalities. This shows that municipalities have different care.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1434	The centre party wants to take the Advance Party seriously. We've been trying to study the suggestions they've been making, and they've actually been festering in this room for more than ten years. It is difficult to find out what the Progress Party really wants with its proposal to convert today's care. Now the representative Giltun says that, no, there's not a check for each one. So she also says that, no, there is no requirement for choices for the siblings of those who today need a nursing home. This gives reason to ask: What groups is the Progress Party I am supposed to be involved in the conversion of the elderly that they are now asking the Government to work with? What is it that is going to enter the single-price financing system that the Progress Party is festering? Let's do this, for example. include in such a system that there is a very variable amount of time and what services will the individual caregiver need? Is it true that the Progress Party itself does not have the answer, since they are asking the Government to draw up a plan after they have been asking for a single price financing system for more than ten years? Is it so that they also have no other country to refer to, who has tried this? The person in need of care needs, first and foremost, that there is a clear supply. Who is to have this available in place, if it is not the municipalities? Who is it, if it's the municipalities? Why can't the Progress Party say, like the rest of us, as the government party now says, that it's important that the individual's supply be adapted to the individual's needs, i.e. the individual's choice and the ones that the relatives and members of the community come up with? It's a kind of choice that gives security before you get sick and at a time you need care.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1441	The regulatory time for the morning meeting is soon to come, but the President will propose that this matter be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1444	There are many who have spoken about this with commitments or not with commitments. I have to ask to be believed that I have had a sincere desire to do this. In the course of the treatment, I believed that we made a settlement, and that was what we were going to end up with, regardless of staggering numbers, in line with the previous older reform and in line with the psychiatry escalation plan. It has been my sincere opinion that this is what we were working on. I worked enthusiastically as a case rapporteur. It's been very exciting and positive in every way. It was at the end, when we felt that this did not work, that it cut itself. The point of propositions is just the simple thing that it's where you commit, that's where you make progress, and that's where you make a framework for economics. It's not more difficult than that. I think that the debate here today shows, as I see it, that the government parties – and I also feel that the Council of State – have not intended to come back with a plan in which all of us in the Grand Duchy will be involved in creating a framework for how much we will spend in this sector in the years to come. At least nobody from the government parties has said so from this pulpit today. The fact that the Council of State indicates that she has proposed some measures that cost money or are followed up with the economy is correct, and that is the incentive subsidy in the notification. But there are only some of the measures. The point is that we wanted to be on a broad deal. Everyone has also gone rounds in their own parties to get permission to do this, namely to commit us in the years to come. At least we've given our input. What we can do now is wait for the government's next performance, the matter to come up with in connection with a government budget. Of course, it's up to the government to come back. We have a very strong desire to be on a similar level that we have had in other areas in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1454	There has been a bit of a strange debate, because the Storting agrees very much on this matter. At the same time, the routes, the opposition and the position of the lots are distinguished in such a basic way as to follow them up and in what form to follow them up. Here, in my view, we have an excellent pattern under changing governments. Then the councillor Hernes laid out St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97 on the situation in Norwegian psychiatry, a unanimous increase decided to require the government to follow up that communication with a committed economic plan. It was done. The same was done when it came to the investment in cancer and equipment, and when it came to the previous elderly effort made by the government of Jagland and adopted here in Stortinget, which the Riksrevision has given its best qualities. And that's not often they do. That's why I'm amazed that the government hasn't seized the open invitation to cooperate with the opposition, because through such cooperation, one would point out to the Norwegian people that the commitment to care is so important that there are some party policies aside, and then we make a common promise. I cannot find – after hearing the debate today – any good reason for this. I ignore the political noise that has been around privatisation and around municipal economy. To the representative of Meltveit Kleppa's violent outburst against me, I just have to say: there is no one in the Christian People's Party who regrets the bet on the local economy, among other things. The central party has been created in government. The party has all the credit, but there is no reason not to commit to a predictable action plan for the care of the elderly. That's where I think the reasoning for the government parties fails. Nevertheless, this is a government led by a prime minister who, in his immediate response to the Christian People's Party's proposal for such a plan, went to the TV studio in Dagsrevyen Sunday night and applauded it. So is it nice that we're disappointed? Now I have to say that I have no other natural explanation of what has been the response and conclusion of the government parties in this matter, than that the Ministry of Finance refuses to commit the Government to an economic investment for several years to come, and the Ministry of Local Government refuses to earmark any more money for the local government sector. We know the loop in the hall. But we're not giving up. Those who depend on care outside the municipalities need predictability, and therefore I ask that the government seize the chance for the autumn and make the obliging plan that the rest of the Stortinget have asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1465	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1468	I just want to give a briefing to the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, who obviously cannot have read Document No. 8:34 for 2005-2006. If the representative had done that, she would have just been able to read about how the model should work. It is not about delivering any checks, but about transferring the money to those who are going to provide the services. Furthermore, it is also natural to use a department to develop the level of detail needed in a number of larger issues like this, and then I think that the government has a little more staff to do this than the Bigton's own bodies can handle. Furthermore, the representative of Meltveit Kleppa asked if we can show that there are some countries that have introduced this. Yeah, that's actually it. An international system called the RUG System, the Resource Utilisation Group, has been developed that deals precisely with care needs and service levels. Switzerland is one of the countries that I am about to visit to see how this works and how it is done, because the systems have already been developed. So then the representative Meltveit Kleppa can visit that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1477	The representative Rune J. Skjælaa also gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1480	I'm not disappointed, but I'm actually a little surprised. So because the opposition didn't get it exactly as they wanted, they choose to vote against a proposal that the government should come up with a case. They're actually going to do that, as I understand it. So when they don't realize that it's going to be a proposition, they're going to vote against the proposal that government parties are promoting. I think that is actually strange – and at the same time they are asking for and want to be involved in designing the content of the matter that we are asking the Government to come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1485	To the representative Nesvik, I just want to say, yes, we keep what we promise, because if you see the total changes in the balance of interests together, it's a decrease in relation to what was the case earlier. It's a matter of putting down the self-esteem 2 from NOK 3 500 to NOK 2 500, we're introducing free doctors for kids under the age of 12, the part of physiotherapy was removed again and we've got cheaper medications, to mention something. So in the case of the specific proportion that Nesvik's representative talked about, it's a 2.5 pst year, but because it's going to be twice as much in six months. Then I also have to correct the representative of Nesvik regarding the tax level. We have kept it unchanged at the level of 2004, precisely because we wanted to release money, not least to this important sector, which is that we want equal opportunities for all people around the country, regardless of the thickness of the wallet. So to the Christian People's Party. I believe that this government has committed itself very much, because we also want commitments in the future. Over the course of a year and a half, we have managed to reverse the trend in a significantly more positive direction when it comes to recruiting more employees to provide more care for those who need it. We are therefore halfway to the target – which is to increase capacity by 10,000 yearly works by 2009 – in a year and a half. This government has chosen to give priority to the local economy, because this is one of the most important things we're going to do. I also believe that this government is very committed when it announces an investment grant. We are notifying a transitional arrangement for the current year, and we are warning that we will strengthen the local economy in the future. Then I record that because the Christian People's Party did not get exactly a proposition, but a matter of their own, they would not be involved in that cooperation. I'm sorry about that. But at least I want to say very clearly: this government doesn't have three visions, it has one vision. And because we believe that the commitment to care is as important as it is, we will also – as we have announced – come back to how we want to propose that this be followed up on a separate matter in relation to the state budget. The care plan 2015 has been notified in the care notification, and I believe that it is very binding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1500	Jan Bøhler has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1503	I think the representative Højbrätten says it well when he says: Ignore party politics, let's try here to get a strong and broad consensus. That's why we're so confused about this that you put the confrontation right at this with the proposition and how the follow-up is going to be the best. As I said, it must be borne in mind that the previous retirement plan was also a big message. Everything was not excellent through that bet either. In 2005, hospital coverage in Norway was slightly lower than in 1997. We do not have a situation of gold and green forests in the care of the elderly, and therefore there is a need to implement a new initiative immediately. The initiative as presented in the communication this time, I see it as a more comprehensive, more concrete, more direct effort than the first communication in 1997. This communication covers a wide range of areas, and we develop a number of obliging planning tools related to this plan, in terms of dental, dementia, rehabilitation, etc. So I hope that everyone stays on too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1508	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1511	I'm just going to stress for the sake of order that I haven't had a 'violent' outcome against the Christian People's Party. I've been saying a wonder about an article like the Højbråten no lett circulate in many newspapers. He may even be able to characterize it as a 'violent' outcome to the government party, but it's a completely different matter. I answered a question he asked. I would like to say to the representative, Mr Nesvik, that it is probably not without reason that we have spoken about this RUG system since 1997. It must be because it's hard to implement. After following this debate, I am very pleased that there is much more to collect than that in the Health and Care Committee. It promises well for the matters that the Government has promised in the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26.ana.ud2124e1520	Three representatives have now signed up on the list of speakers. The President will propose that the meeting now be suspended and set again at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
