ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-lower.ana.ud1241e43	The President has reason to believe that there will be a short debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-lower.ana.ud1241e46	In Ot.prp. No 24 proposals are made for changes to the law on elections to the Grand Duchy, county councils and local councils. The Committee endorses the comments and recommendations in this matter. This means, at the Odelstingen's approval, that, in the course of the autumn's municipal and county elections, it will be compulsory for election cards to be issued. Licensing is required when voting, and the so-called date of in-mandate entry is changed from 31 May to 30 June of the electoral year. In addition, there will be new deadlines for prior voting abroad and on Svalbard. The implementation of the 2005 decision-making exercise showed that some conditions in the resolution of elections did not work well enough. The proposed changes to the electoral law could help to reduce these problems. With regard to the change to the compulsory issue of election cards, it is important to clarify that even if the voter should not carry the election card for the election but may be legitimized, the voter shall have the right to vote. The change of the cut date by one month, until 30 June, is in order to facilitate the voting of several voters in the municipality in which they live. This is important, and it may also help to motivate the electorate to vote. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the odelstningsproposition also mentions things on which no legislative amendments are promoted. I'm not going to go into it any further. I would, however, like to draw attention to what is, among other things, a professional forum for central electoral staff in Kommune-Norway is dedicated to electronic voting. I believe it is important that Norway has an offensive position on electronic voting. Electronic voting can contribute strongly to increased electoral participation. Increased electoral participation and the best possible organisation for all electoral groups is an important pillar of our democracy. The organisation of step-by-step electronic voting procedures should be in place in good time before the 2009 elections. With these considerations, I recommend that Odelstinget vote in favour of the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-lower.ana.ud1241e63	Democracy is not as good as it is everywhere in the Kingdom. In my home municipality, Harstad, we achieved the dubious bottom position four years ago that we were the municipality with the lowest turnout. Only 45.1 pst. voted at municipal elections and 42.1 pst. at the county elections. Those who sat at home represented for the first time in history the majority of the municipality. Prior to this year's elections, Højre's rapporteur's candidate in Harstad took the initiative to take a cross-political action to bring up the vote in the municipality. Both the municipality and the parties — together and separately — must be able to take action to increase the interest in the elections and thus also the turnout. While it is obvious that local politicians and individual local authorities have a great responsibility to facilitate the widest possible participation, it is also necessary for national authorities to recognise that further action is needed to awaken voters, who obviously take democracy for granted. I myself have reflected a lot on how my and other municipalities carry out the task that is locally carried out by the election. I think it's high time we thought about when and where the voting can happen. Migrants to the municipality shall no longer vote at their old school. It is not obvious, even with the issue of election cards, that everyone finds out to the polling room. If the voters do not find out about the traditional polls, it may be an alternative for the electorate to add the vote to places where people travel naturally, for example. major purchasing centres, traffic hubs and major educational establishments. For a long time, it has been common to travel around the elderly institutions and allow older people to vote, but I think you also have to think this way towards other groups of voters. If this can contribute to the participation of more people in the elections, such changes are in the service of democracy. I recently read an interview with a 30-year-old who had not yet made his debut. This means that he has had more than six choices and, in my view, the probability of this election remaining at home is great. If many first-time voters do not carry out their civil duty and end up as this 30-year-old, it will only mean that the turnout will fall further. It is this development election researcher Jo Saglie of the Institute for Social Research now warns against. He expects the trend of the previous municipal elections to continue, and justifies the fact that people no longer have the strong opinion that voting in elections is their duty to citizens. He believes that people need another reason to vote, and that local conflicts and contradictions can mobilize voters. According to Sagli, it was only 13 pst. by the voters who voted on the basis of the person in the previous local elections. The Committee has pointed to the importance of election cards and will legislate. I agree that election cards can serve as a reminder to use the voting rights. It is also positive not to limit the time period for prior voting, either domestically or abroad. The Government's proposals aim at reducing the number of votes cast. From previous elections, we know that, among other things: slow mail has resulted in pre-speakers not reaching the municipality in question in time to be included in the count. This is very regrettable and must not happen again. In order to reduce the risk of prior voting being rejected for such a reason, I would like to ask the Government to consider guidelines that allow prior voting to be submitted in e.g. two rounds, in order to avoid that all pre-selections must wait until the pre-selection has been completed before they are transmitted to the appropriate municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-lower.ana.ud1241e78	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-lower.ana.ud1241e86	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-lower.ana.ud1241e217	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-lower.ana.ud1241e227	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-lower.ana.ud1241e390	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed.
