ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e45	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve shall apply for welfare leave from 14 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Rolf Jarle Brøske, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e63	Rolf Jarle Bruske is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e77	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1483]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e93	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1483]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e109	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1483]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e125	An entirely fundamental preparatory work on the matter we are now dealing with took place when the Financial Committee was working on presenting its financial position. The setting clarified the main political dividing lines, and the different opposition parties presented their alternative budgets. We were able to define the economic framework in different policy areas, frameworks that are binding on the rest of the budget procedure. The matters that we are now discussing, debt guarantees under the State budget for the framework area 20 Export credit, framework area 21 Financial administration, etc., some issues under the Ministry of Finance, some guarantees under the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the 90-99 government budget items, the chapter on transfers to and from the State pension fund – Foreign and power to raise government loans. To put it another way: in the context of the examination of this matter, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has acted as a business committee in its field. We have been bound by the frameworks laid down in the budget-inner. S. No In and in budget-inner. S. No 1st@item: inlistbox In general, I would say that the setting we are currently considering gives broad support to the Government's various proposals. In the vast majority of cases, there is a broad majority behind the option, while the Progress Party has divergent views in a number of cases, where either goes against the Government proposal or takes up other proposals for the permission. There is broad consensus in many cases, for example: for the 2008 financial framework of the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit. On the other hand, the Progress Party has expressed its view that the Government should be empowered to extend the guarantee framework. When it comes to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, they ask the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy in connection with the revised national budget for spring with proposals to extend the framework of the GIEK's Unland Arrangement. Another issue in which there is consensus within the Committee is the State pension fund – Foreign. A joint committee endorses the proposal to authorise 301 773 million. kr under cap. 2800 item 50 for next year. It's a large amount that's being set aside on the government budget for the purpose of that. On the other hand, there is disagreement on the issue of the State Investment Fund. The government proposes to create a new state investment fund with equity of DKK 2.2 billion. It's supposed to be organized as a subsidiary of Innovation Norway. It shall be an equity instrument and shall be a good complement to the other financial instruments of Innovation Norway. The purpose of the new fund is to contribute to commercialising globally oriented and competitive innovations and projects. It shall primarily engage in start-ups and provide long-term and risk capital. Five areas are to be given priority in this work. It's the environment, energy, travel, marine and maritime sectors. Of the equity of SEK 2.2 billion, half a billion will be used for investments in marine business. In my view, the proposal put forward here is a well-substantiated proposal. This leads to increased value creation by making direct equity investments and by exercising active ownership of the investment projects. The Government Party and the Christian People's Party support the Government's proposal. The Parties declare that they are skeptical of the proposal submitted on investment funds and that the objections relate both to the organisation of and the arrangements for the proposal. Instead, the Progress Party proposes to strengthen the investment strategy for Argentum Fund Investment AS by DKK 2.5 billion. When it comes to the other two opposition parties, namely the Right and the Left, they are opposed to the proposal to create a new State Investment Fund. They say that this leads to an unfortunate strengthening of the sovereign power of the state. Then I will link some comments to the customs and tax rate and to the tax rate. In the setting presented by the Financial Committee, we see that the Progress Party is moving towards the introduction of a higher value tax, and they are in favour of a reversed-setting system, as they call it. The progress party claims that it will save the state more than 100 million. kr, and that it will save society at least 330 million. kr. The proposal put forward here by the Progress Party leads to a reduction in the budget for the tariff and tax quota of 224 million. kr, or a reduction of 19,9 pst. in the customs and charging seat, its operating budget. When it relates to the tax rate, the Progress Party proposes a reduction in the budget of 408 million. kr. That's 10.6 pst. by the operating budget. So the Progress Party, both in the financial situation and in its alternative budget, as it is also expressed here, has proposed a high-level take-off for the two budgets. The cut is, in its entirety, proposed to be charged to Item 1 Operating expenditure. In addition, there is a proposal for a cut of 100 million for the customs and charging seat. kr, in the light of a proposal for a reversal of the import premium on imports of goods. The Progress Party supports a KPMG report on the theme, and this report concludes that the customs and fee set costs of the current scheme are of this size. An internal working group in the Ministry of Finance assessed the case and presented the recommendation for approx. a year ago, and she showed that a reversal of the import amortization would only lead to marginal savings for the customs and tax haven. Therefore, in its draft budget, the Government recommends that the import premium should not be revalued. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party writes that ‘therefore, the reduction is not intended to affect the fight against e.g. by customs. drugs and other smuggling». I believe that the impact of the proposals that the Progress Party has put forward in this field is definitely not living up to what they formulate as their intention. So it's going to be something like that. 65 pst. the budgets of their operating budgets consist of means of remuneration. The other 35 pst. liabilities for the purchase of goods and services. A cut of the size proposed by the Progress Party here will have to be made mainly on wage costs, because other operating costs are largely tied up to fixed costs, such as rental costs, delivery contracts, IT operations, etc. Minimum 85 pst. the progress of the party must therefore be made in the wage costs. This will necessarily involve job stops and a significant amount of laid-offs, as well as natural take-offs. The expenditure will include, inter alia: lead to conversion agreements, waiting wages, closing packages, etc. to a significant extent. A large proportion of their budgets are linked to statutory tasks that are of such a nature that they cannot be ignored or suspended. This means that the cut will mainly affect the control activities, because in this area, the etats have the possibility to adjust their activities — at least in the short term. A reduction in control activities will have very unfortunate consequences in several areas. The budgets will include: More difficult could be achieved by ensuring the correct determination of both taxes and taxes, including tax evasion and other financial crime. The tax authorities have their professional controls, e.g. towards the taxi industry, is very labour-intensive, and the station will probably not be able to carry out major industry controls if one is to follow the Progress Party scheme. The fight against tax evasion in the context of labour migration will also be more difficult to implement. The customs duty and levy rate of its work to prevent the illegal movement of goods, under this border control, will also become clearly more difficult. In view of the need to carry out statutory tasks, a cut of 224 million will be required. kr leads to the stopping of almost all control operations in the building. A strong reduction in border controls will increase the threat to society of its security in areas such as drugs, terrorism, organised crime, environmental hazards, food security, diseases and animal health. Reduced control activity will also have a significant impact on tax and debt income. In my view, the Progress Party will rock its proposals in these areas by important aspects of the tax rate and the customs and tax rate. That's why it's irresponsible to go into their plans. On the basis of what has been said here, and on the basis of the opinion of the Financial Committee, I would recommend this to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e171	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e174	I was actually going to start by thanking the case rapporteur for an objective and neutral review of the financial committee's position. It kept very good, almost to the end. Until the last recital to the rapporteur, it was well presented. So until the end of what case rapporteur Sandal says: does the representative Sandal not see any correlation between implementing efficiency measures and getting some costs down? For example, in an earlier case, the Financial Committee has agreed to make simplifications, among others. in the case of a self-declaration. In recent years we have also had a major change in the way people submit the declaration – more is now electronic. Does not the representative Sandal see any potential for efficiency in this? I refer to the matter we are going to discuss in Odelstinget later today on the Customs Act, where, among other things, The Advance Party and the Right propose to give increased authority to Customs, which the Customs Authority itself says will be more efficient for the way they work. Do you not see that it will actually be the same with these proposals and to be able to streamline and cut costs in these departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e183	Of course, I'm busy improving the efficiency and efficiency of the systems that we have, whether they are in the customs and tax system or they are in the tax system. But a requirement to say that the efficiency improvement has positive results is precisely that they do not engage in a fundamental attack on what is at the core and basic activities of these activities. In my view, the Progress Party's proposals do not meet this requirement when it comes to the customs and tax rate and the tax rate, and therefore they are so fundamentally frameworkning a part of the important work to be done in the budgets when it comes to tax evasion. That is the reason why I have expressed strongly critical views about the Progress Party's approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e190	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e193	Every year, alternating governments try to imagine the Norwegian big business, the media and the Norwegian people that there is no way to save a single penny in public administration – I repeat: administration. This reality description is only the Progress Party and the Norwegian people who do not accept – the Progress Party because we see that efficiency measures are still being implemented in offices, supervision and directorates while the number of employees is not being reduced. It introduces ICT over a low shoe and transfers more and more of the work to each individual by e-mail, Internet or quiet acceptance. Despite this, the number of employees in the public administration is increasing. The Norwegian people react, because they work in companies where there is a constant focus on keeping the number of employees at a minimum, which means that the company earns money and wages increase. Such incentives are lacking in the public sector. While private sector employees have as their starting point money to strengthen the company's bottom line, public agencies have the opposite starting point. Public agencies shall spend their money. They will spend their annual appropriations, often being rewarded with even higher appropriations next year. If they don't use them up, they don't need higher appropriations at least. This is assessed in the public sector. In public administration, all employees receive approximately equal wage increases, based on collective agreements. This means that acute competence is rewarded poorly, creativity and self-initiation are given poor soil, external contact networks are not rewarded, while individuals do not have any financial incentives to propose concrete savings in the body. In such a system, it is we politicians who must be the janitors, constantly focusing on cost-effectiveness and constantly remind each other that it is the neighbor's salary we have on the government budget. The objective – I repeat: the objective – of any conversion and efficiency process must be to reduce the need for public transfers. Furthermore, we must constantly ask ourselves whether the task being carried out is a task that the public should be doing or whether the task needs to be done at all. I myself have a long experience working in public administration, and I never stopped wondering how much time we all spent informing each other. Not least, there were many who had a very great fondness for so-called management tools, business planning and activity calendars, for not talking about writing internal notes. It may not be easy for a government council to discover that this is the case, but I am reasonably sure that representatives from the office who are sitting on the bench over there are familiar with the description I give. Obviously, a way to get savings processes going is to allow for greater flexibility in wage fixing in public administration. It is strange that it is only when you get up at the head of the expedition that performance pay is introduced, then through personal pay agreements. If the first consultant or consultant had found that there was a clear link between pay and performance, the effectiveness, results and willingness to stand on this would have reflected this, and the need for the number of employees would be reduced. Not least in today's tight labour market, the Government should take seriously the enormous potential of getting people out of public administration and into private activities. This is a win-win situation. The State may levy less on taxes and charges, while private enterprises receive long-term labour. Unfortunately, the government chooses to go the other way, that is, to maintain a so-called waiting pay scheme, which clearly shows that the understanding that the government's money is actually the salary of people most, is zero. Every time the Progress Party brings up the desire to reduce the number of employees in the public administration, government representatives try to present it as if the Progress Party criticises the employees in the sector and that we do not appreciate the work they do. It is the same pointless argument that the Government uses when the Progress Party criticises the Government's naive immigration policy – then we are allegedly opposed to the immigrants, when we want to reduce the transfers to the self-employed in the agricultural sector – then we are allegedly opposed to the farmers, or when we want to end the Sameting – then we are supposedly against each other. That, of course, is completely pointless and totally wrong. In that case, you had to use the same logic every time the red-greens set up a fee that affected the population. This would mean that the government felt directly disgusted with anyone other than those who bikes, drinks milk, has 15 degrees in the living room, is skilled and works in agriculture – and we hope that this is not the case. When a private enterprise chooses to de-employ, it does not mean that those who have to leave the enterprise are incapacitated. No, they're not invincible, they're superfluous. The company manages with fewer employees to produce the units the customers want and at the price they are willing to pay. The Progress Party believes that it must be possible to think in the same way in public administration – without the State making the redundant by providing them with a waiting wage and indirectly telling these workers that they are unable to take care of themselves. In the Government's proposals for allocations under Framework Area 21, we find that the operating budgets of a number of businesses are increasing significantly. For example, the operating budget increases by close to 13 p.m., the operating budget of the Statistical Central Bureau increases by 12 p.m., and the operating budget of the Banking Authority increases by a total of 14 p.m. The Progress Party believes that wrong policies are being pursued when expenditure on public administration is far higher than expected wage developments. On the contrary, we believe that this sector should be sober, not least at a time when there is a struggle for labour. The Progress Party proposes that the budget for Framework Area 21 be reduced by more than DKK 1.1 billion, which on average represents about 7 pst. of the operating costs. This implies that the Progress Party adjusts for expected wage developments, but that we reject operating increases in addition to such an adjustment. I take this into account all the very good proposals in the position that the Progress Party is promoting alone or with other parties, and I also encourage the other parties to vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e229	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e234	The current government has focused on improving the municipal economy in order to get a better care service in the municipalities. The Progress Party writes in its recommendation that they wish to convert the funding of health care. While we have stressed that we have chosen people locally who know best how it is, so that they can provide the best possible offer, the Progress Party wants to have a priced funding for health and care services. I just want to ask the representative of the Progress Party: what should the local politician do – or should you have an administration to ensure that the piece prices are properly distributed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e239	I'm glad to get that question. What locals should do is provide the places needed in the care of the elderly and in the school system. It is the funding to be provided through the award of a piece of finance from the State. That makes sense, then you don't get the unworthy conditions we have today, and you get equal treatment all over the country. In other words, when older people need a place of care in a nursing home, guaranteed funding is provided, as a guarantee from the state to each user. Of course, the municipality should arrange for these to be accommodated. Of course, the qualification and assessment of whether they need a place is also taking place today. The point is, it has to happen somewhere. It is happening today, and it is also happening in the future when the state finances. That's the funding we want to get to the state, so we guarantee that each and every older person or every school gets the system they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e244	Let me first say that it is important that we also go up some external borders in big debates and discuss the kind of questions that Tybrung-Gjedde is good at travelling in this room – all the time the question of whether we have too much state or public bureaucracy, and whether it can be more efficient and done better. It is not always related to contributions from other forward-looking party representatives, which crowd out more public sector employees to solve important tasks. It was not least pointed out in connection with a question hour a short time ago. But it's got to be. That's not what I want to ask you first of all. It's about the total state bureaucracy, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde says. After following these questions closely — saving money and turning many stones in many budgetary contexts for many years — it is over a long period, 10–15 years, my impression that state bureaucracy in Norway is low. It has not grown, with two important exceptions: the hospital sector has grown significantly and the police sector has grown significantly. These are the two major growing state sectors in Norway. Does Tybring-Gender regret the growth of the two sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e252	No, I think we politicians should do what's important, we should take the primary tasks we have, and health and school are really something we should give priority to. What we are discussing today is public administration. If we look at the operating budgets and the increases in these from last year to this year, see. The examples I referred to from the pulpit are an increase of 12-13 pst. - I'm sure it's excellently justified. That was also the increase in the Ministry of Defence when I worked there. 15–20 years ago, for example, it worked. Four case handlers, today more than 25 are working in the Department of Defence’s Security Policy — a kind of competitor for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is an example of public sector growth in non-needed fields of work. That is a concrete example. I can't go into detail where to cut, but it's obvious that every case handler, every single head of public offices, has to ask themselves whether they need to do this task in 2008, or whether they can actually stop doing that task, not just going on like last year and asking for increased appropriations to cope with new salary increases for new employees. Each new process initiated by the public sector can be justified on an individual basis, but when the collective becomes too large and the public sector is too coherent, then we have to ask the question: Where can we cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e259	Like the previous replicator, I intend to address the same issue, efficiency savings in the public sector. I also think it's a good topic to discuss, but I have a slightly different approach than that of Christian Tybring-Gjedde. I am concerned about the instruments in this way. Let's take the hospitals, which of course is an important field for us politicians. What I am asking is: does the Progress Party believe that increasing public budgets in the hospital sector does not lead to bureaucracy? Is increasing appropriations blindly for the municipal sector, for the hospital sector and other public sectors an incentive to improve efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e266	It's very complicated contexts. I also see clearly the context, that increased appropriations will lead to public bureaucracy. Therefore, the Progress Party is in favour of more earmarking of funds, so that they do not disappear in this bureaucracy, to which the representative of Aasen Agdestein refers. The reason for this is that we want the funds to be allocated to the student, for example, that they belong to those who need the services. It will reduce bureaucracy. But when we pump in so much money, for example. In the school sector, and then we get miserable results on the other side, it's obvious that something's wrong. Of course, there is something wrong with education, with administration and with bureaucracy in the school sector. There's no reason to hide it. Now the Progress Party has not been in government, but the party of Aasen Agdestein has done so almost continuously since World War II, and then they must also take responsibility for the bureaucracy and for the poor learning that comes out of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e275	The use of money is a very good argument and difficult for the Progress Party to respond to. But I'm going to follow up a little bit on my first question, because on that, the representative Tybring-Gjede replied that it was the local politicians who were supposed to be responsible for finding these places that the state is going to pay for. Once local politicians have found those places, they must be mainly in private operation, says the Progress Party. It shall be based on the tendering principle. Are local politicians also going to sit and look at the tender papers and see how they are going to be conducted? What does Tybring-Gedde and the Advance Party really put in local politics, if local politicians are to find only new places in the care of the elderly, and are not to be able to make political priorities in the municipality, because the places are state-funded anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e282	When you have unit-price financing, each user knows what to use. This gives you real competition, for example: in the care of the elderly, as is the case in Oslo today, where there is competition between private organisations and the municipal sector. If the municipality provides the best service, the most quality assurance service and at the same time the most reasonable service, the municipality is of course competitive. It creates incentives. I am convinced that the representative Klungland, from his childhood, was in competition and tried to win all the time. It's part of what you do from being small to being big. But suddenly, when you come to the public sector, there should be no more competition. The Progress Party does not believe that. Competition is healthy, including in the public sector. In all other sectors, competition is healthy. You get the best price and the best quality. The municipality will provide places for the elderly, and the municipality will, of course, provide school places for the students. But it is the funding to come from the state. It is guaranteed, and then you don't argue about it in the context of the municipal budgets and cut in the areas that are most important, namely the elderly, health and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e289	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e292	All the issues that are now being tried to debate, and which are also reflected in the vote, were highlighted and discussed in the financial position, so I do not need anything but refer to it and address the proposals where the Right is either a co-sponsor or has proposals alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e297	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e300	After all, we had Christmas on the financial committee yesterday. I understand that it has given good nourishment to some to draw up many large and broad debates. The undersigned does not intend to do so. I would just like to point out that in the debate we have now, I will address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted either with other parties or alone. I just want to mention the areas. To a large extent, this applies to the funds, the Cultural Memory Fund, the Research Fund and the Energy Fund, as well as to the proposal on GIEK and the desire for the Government to come back to revision with an extended framework for that scheme. In conclusion, I would just like to point out that the opposition has a note related to the Credit Authority, in which we request that the Government, in the context of the presentation of the credit notification, also take a closer look at the control activities of the Credit Authority with regard to the financial market players. We all know the situation we've had in the last few weeks, related to a particular company. I think everyone needs to look at the inspections. They are not required to carry out any product checks as such, but we need to look at the extent to which the distribution of tasks is such as to come into the back and examine, versus to have continuous supervision and to be able to put the foot down before serious things happen. We have seen that the supervision of a special debt collection-related case has now announced a withdrawal of authorisation. It's not time to pass any judgment on either one or another here, but I just want to say that I think it would be of great interest for the public to know what assessments the government has of this. We'd like to see it in the credit statement. I'm addressing the suggestions I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e313	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e318	I felt the need to take this line because of the claim the representative Syversen made at the beginning of his post. I'll ask him what he means, and what he's talking about. Is it a person, or is it a matter? Or is it that when a political party writes long comments in a position, there should be no possibility to ask questions about it? Let me say, as the former Right King from Rogaland, Rettedal, said, politeness is a matter of course, even if you don't care about being happy with people that you can't have anything with. I want the Christian People's Party representative here to say what he meant by what he said at the beginning of his speech. Is it wrong to ask questions to the Progress Party regarding their comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e328	No, it's not. It was just an experimentally humorous approach to the debate we have today, which some of us thought would be somewhat shorter than it obviously is. Klungland knows well that he can ask for the word to lines as much as he likes, and I will gladly listen to them and answer them. He can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e333	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e336	We are currently dealing with many issues under the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, and I just want to go into some key areas. First to the State Investment Fund. From the centre party we are happy that the government has put it in place. It is a follow-up to the Government's promises of a more active industrial policy. We are happy that we now have an investment company with a capital of NOK 2.2 billion. The company should enter into ownership and exercise active ownership. It should be both commercial and strategic. Through it, the State shall ensure long-term risk capital and it is linked to primary start-ups. The owner tip can be from 5–49 pst., so a very central owner. Of the designated areas, there is reason on the part of the Centre Party to focus specifically on the energy sector and the climate and environmental perspectives. I would like to take this opportunity to point out an area where the company should be most relevant. We have the broad understanding in this room that it is not ethically sound to produce biofuels in food in Norway. It is probably an opinion that there is nothing to be desired that such production takes place outside. As yet, there is no commercial operation of biofuels other than food, and there is therefore a need to look at the possibilities of whether Norway should be able to take a leading role in developing what is commonly called second generation biofuels, or which in my language can easily be called timber diesel. It has long-term perspectives and a technology development in a particular class in itself. I would say that the challenge facing Norwegian business in this area is, to the most extent, a relevant area in which the state's investment company should be a valid instrument. With regard to the organisation of the tax rate and municipal tax collection, it is important for the Central Party and the Government to emphasise that the tax collection is to be with the municipalities, as it is today. Similarly, it is also up-to-date for the Central Party to accede to the Committee of Inquiry's proposal that municipal claims be transferred to a State scheme. The background is that today’s system operates smoothly over good and ensures the necessary proximity and connection to the other responsibilities of the municipality. The bankruptcy of Terra Securities has also put the country’s supervisory bodies in focus, whether it is the Credit Authority or the Ecocrime that has a role if something criminal happens. The credit supervision did their job by taking them from the Terra Securities concession. The case shows that what is sold by securities is becoming more and more complicated and unwieldy, to say it cautiously. At the same time, there is increasing international financial instability, and there are large losses in financial institutions. It is not only in the United States and the United Kingdom, you have it, but in Switzerland and also in Norway. Supervision and follow-up of that activity must be given increased focus, and the Credit Authority must be given greater impact. In the field of the State budget, it is Ecocrime that needs to be given a far greater financial opportunity to ensure fair competition in the financial market. Companies that gain a competitive advantage by moving beyond the law must be followed up much more closely. It is absolutely central to an efficient, competitive market. What we are dealing with today includes significant purchases of climate allowances internationally. It is a necessary measure, but most importantly, what we are doing here at home, through the transition to renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement and the capture of carbon dioxide from gas power plants. Once again, I would like to stress that these challenges require a shift in thinking, a paradigm shift, which will involve considerable costs in the short term in order to generate large revenues in the longer term. It is a problem that needs to go far beyond the practical policies of the Ministry of Finance in the future, if we are to become credible internationally as well. Finally, the Progress Party has a proposal to eliminate customs duties on goods from developing countries. A denominator is convenient not what u-country is involved, but central u-country in such a context is Brazil and Argentina, for customs duties on food are smooth here. What is then a key point, as the Progress Party underlines, is that by removing unilateral national customs duties on goods from developing countries, one removes the possibilities for exports to Norway from the real developing countries, the least developed countries, those also defined by the United Nations as MUL countries. That is the clear argument that, on the part of the Central Party, we see no reason to support such a proposal, and we are very pleased that the Progress Party is alone in this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e353	For those who have not taken up the position we are discussing here today, the debate may seem somewhat confusing as to what the matter is about. But it's a little typical, because with a case where it's a lot different, from a committee dealing with general questions, it's essentially invited to discuss what you want and it has a certain relevance to what's in the setting. There may also be a background for the debate to raise very different issues in a short time. You can talk about everything and nothing. I'm going to prefer the last one. [[Laughter]] I want to use my time to record the proposal I have made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e360	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1484]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e370	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e531	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Amendment No. 2, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 3, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left-wing proposal No. 4 and 5, tabled by Mr Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentiality and Immunities 6, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 7, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 8, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 9, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner5999State loans90Loans 56 889 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e604	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner286Found for research and innovation95Fundamental capital 31 000 0001825Reconversion of energy use and energy production95Energy fund, fund capital 20 000 000 0005999State loan resources90Loans 60 089 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e680	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostFormålKroner1432Norwegian cultural heritage fund90Fundamental capital 200 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e726	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostFormsCroner286Fund for research and innovation95Fundamental capital 26 000 000 0001325Vegfond 95Vegfond 20 000 000 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e787	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The 2008 budget is authorised under: Cap.PostFormsCroner967Investment company90Investment contribution 2 500 000 0001320States roadvesen95Infrastructure fund 60 000 000 0001432Norwegian cultural heritage fund90Fund capital 100 000 0001830Research95Investment fund for energy and petroleum research 10 000 000 0003670National minorities90Investment of the Roman people's fund 75 000 0003680Investment90Investment of the Same people's fund 75 000 0005999State loan resources90Loans 129 039 000 000» [[NEW POST]] [[NEW POST]] [[NEW POST]] [[NEW POST]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e937	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner286The Research and Innovation Fund95Fundamental capital 40 000 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e983	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to return to the Revised National Budget 2008 with proposals to increase the GIEK’s Unland Scheme to 3 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e998	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner1825Reconversion of energy use and energy production95Energy fund, fund capital 10000000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e2310	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e3207	The President assumes that the Progress Party also wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14.ana.ud50e3269	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
