ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e49	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be divided as follows among the groups: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e60	The form of the cooperative organisation has a 150-year presence in Norway. Today, after four attempts earlier, we can finally adopt a company law that is adapted to this form of organization. The purpose of putting this law into place is, among other things, to renew cooperative ownership, to underline the specific nature of the cooperative tank and to provide a status-lift for cooperative organisation. What then characterises a cooperative enterprise? Yes, a cooperative has, like for example: a limited liability company for the main purpose of promoting the financial interests of its members or owners. In a limited liability company, the objective will normally be to maximise profits in order to maximise the return to owners. In a cooperative undertaking, the purpose is to safeguard the financial interests of members as providers or demanders of goods and services. In a limited liability company, the purpose is usually realised with acquisition activities aimed at an external customer mass, while in a cooperative enterprise the purpose is to interact with the company and its members. It is also the case that a dividend in a cooperative is based on active user participation and trading with the entity. These are some of the specific features of the cooperative form that make it necessary to have a separate corporate law in addition to the existing company law we have. Today, Norway has about 4000 cooperatives, with a total of 2 million members, which are subject to an illegal right to co-operate. Only the housing laws, the housing laws and to some extent the mutual insurance companies are subject to co-operative law at present. Now we're going to have a change in this, and we hope that it will contribute to a greater knowledge of the form of cooperation, and that this will give more people who want to use this form of company as a result. For several years now, the EU has been actively promoting interoperability in order to address new challenges. In 2004, there were more than 300,000 cooperatives with 140 million members and more than 5 million employees in the EU. Since the mid-1990s, Sweden has been actively working to make use of the form of cooperation in new areas. They have given emphasis to needs, user benefits and societal responsibility, and established a term for this, called social economy. In this context, they have also established cooperative offices around the country to contribute to this innovation. Today the cooperative form is about 8 pst. by the Swedish economy. Fortunately, we also see in Norway a development of the form of cooperation in new areas. There are a number of co-operative children's gardens, car-samsies, small industry, taxi and transport companies and health/care and therapy cooperatives to mention something. I hope that this diversity will be considerably greater when we now establish a corporate law for this. The examination within the Committee has shown that there are some significant differences in the view of this law between the red-green lots and the opposition. The differences really go straight into the essence of the cooperative idea. The right hand party and the Progress Party will provide for an unlimited return on capital, freely transferable shares and the possibility of a fund issue. If this had become a reality, we would have removed much of what is peculiar to the cooperative form and we would not have needed a separate cooperative law. It is well possible that it is exactly what the right-hand side believes, because they also say in a note that there is no fundamental difference in the objective between a limited liability company and a cooperative entity. This view is not shared by the red-greens, and I doubt whether it is shared by the 2 million members who are involved in the cooperative today. With regard to the competitive perspective of this law, it has been fully assessed, including by the Competition Authority. After analysing this, the conclusion is that the law will have a positive impact on competition. I also wonder at the Progress Party and the Right’s remark to evaluate the competitive aspects after three years – wondering for two reasons: firstly, it is clear that this is a corporate law, where competition policy conditions are to be addressed by the Competition Act in line with other company law. Secondly, a transitional period of five years has also been proposed in the law before it is enforced by force. That means that the opposition will evaluate the law two years before the law has full force. It's kind of weird. I would also like to point out that the extensive consultation process carried out in connection with the legislative work shows that the legislative proposal received solid support from the hearing bodies. Those who made counter-conceptions were largely actors who would not be subject to this legislation but who were in a situation of competition with the cooperative enterprise. I would like to thank the Committee for its good work and thank all the actors who have made good and constructive contributions along the way in the process of this law. Finally, I have to take up an incurrency, because on Tuesday Odelstinget dealt with financial legislation, and there was one point that had to be postponed pending the treatment of this law. I should also like to address the proposal. The proposal is distributed among the representatives. Finally, I would recommend Odelstinget to support the settings submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e90	The representative Thomas Breen has drawn up the proposal he made okay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e93	The word cooperative triggers feelings among many, and it has a particular background in the close relationship that the cooperatives or cooperatives had with the labour movement and the LO in the 1950s and 1960s. But cooperatives aren't just Coop. The vast majority of cooperatives are private parent farms, commercial units, garage sales, machine layers and other undertakings engaged in defined economic activities. Today, when we adopt a cooperative law, Norway’s 4000 cooperative teams no longer become lawless. However, the debate on a cooperative law has not taken place entirely silently. Synesthesia The find and the Q meieries have gone into the strup of Tine and the cooperative form in general. Even the Ministry of Finance has shown scepticism in terms of competition. Nevertheless, in the course of the process, there has been broad agreement that we need a cooperative law and that competition should be resolved through competition law rather than the cooperative law. The disagreement in the case is whether one should have a statutory ceiling on returns and open up for fund issues. Some claim that the cooperatives have a different objective than the limited companies, but as the Progress Party sees it, it has to be up to individuals to decide which business model they choose for their company and not to favour the Storting. Although we agree that there is no minimum deposit limit for the formation of cooperatives as is the case for limited liability companies, we are in complete disagreement with the reason that there is a particular need to facilitate cooperatives. It is also necessary to provide for similar simplified rules when small companies are set up, in order to ensure equal treatment between forms of organisation and to facilitate the start-up of all types of business. Many try to produce the cooperatives as if they have nobler purposes than other enterprises, but cooperatives are not different from other forms of enterprise. The Progress Party therefore believes that the restrictions imposed by the Government on the bill will hamper the creation of cooperatives. The government has proposed a restriction on the returns of cooperatives. The boundary appears to be arbitrarily laid, and as the Progress Party sees it, there should not be such an upper limit. Now, members cannot build up capital in periods of need for investment, nor can they build up capital when they are not. This threatens healthy competition and undermines the market mechanism. The same problem creates the Government's ban on fund issues. This has been a central issue during the treatment of the law. Access to the transfer of funds from retained earnings to retained earnings provides a much better way to make the payment and recovery of capital more flexible. Membership by law cannot be transferred and the proceeds of the cooperative enterprise remain in the enterprise if you step out. Nevertheless, the Government proposes an exemption if the member has worked in the company. For the cooperative law, as the principle of equality of laws that each member has equal voting rights, this becomes contradictory. For this reason, the Progress Party wishes to establish its statutes that a member who has resigned should be able to bring his/her share of his/her earnings. As I said at the outset, many people connect the form of cooperation with the Workers' Party and the movement of workers. For the non-socialist wing, it's probably co-operative with a loaded roller blade. But we see that cooperatives can be a suitable form of organization, especially for smaller units. We have still freshened in memory a proposal from the Progress Party and the Right on simplified legislation for small limited liability companies to stimulate the start-up of new companies. This was voted down by Stortinget, so the AS form is obviously not as desired by the red-green government. The government has reintroduced the special tax preference, and the more modest gender representation requirements of the bill are a clear example of the government favouring interoperability in relation to other corporate models. This again distorts competition. Finally, I would like to say again that I am pleased that we are now receiving a cooperative law, but will again show that the main objection to this law is to the competitive one. Although we broadly agree that most of the problems need to be resolved by competition law and not by company law, I would nevertheless like to clarify the importance of the establishment and practice of competition law in order to prevent distorting effects. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposals from the Progress Party and the Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e119	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e122	Today, it is good that we adopt a law on cooperation. The form of cooperation can be very distinct for some industries and individuals who want to start new businesses. The regulation of laws may help to ensure that the form of cooperation does not remain an unsuspecting thought and a well-kept secret for many. Legislative regulation is also in itself a good thing, all the time it can contribute to more transparent conditions and predictability. I think it is right to say this at the outset, all the time when the Right Party and the Advance Party have full comments that problematize important matters, but which do not necessarily have to be considered as being opposed to legal regulation, which the representative of the Progress Party was also involved in. However, there is a basis for asking why some major actors, with one, were so positive about legal regulation, after previous attempts to regulate the form of cooperation had collapsed. It provides a basis for fear that this law has introduced anti-competitive elements that fit into the hands of already strong established cooperatives. While it is a good thing to refer to competition law, in several cross-roads, the majority have shown that when it comes to the issue, competition concerns are not exactly advanced in certain mergers, neither in the oil industry nor in the food industry. There is also something special that you are very concerned about making it easier for the form of cooperation to contribute to more small businesses. There are new tones compared to what we heard when we considered proposals to make it easier for smaller companies in their time. A large part of the objections to the proposal to legislate for cooperatives are raised in competition for our part. Competition law must be structured, followed up, not least, and practised in such a way as to prevent as far as possible distortions of competition contributing to the socio-economic unprofitable use of resources. That's where we're referring to what's happened in the last two years. It has not been done much more than to point out that competition is important, but most crossroads have used the opportunity to undermine the agencies and opportunities provided by the law of the Bondevik II administration to enforce the competition law effectively, by not actually using those tools. The design of rules in the field of cooperative law must not constitute a competitive situation which is negative for operators competing with a cooperative. Although the majority does not say anything about an evaluation, I would ask the Council of State to provide a broad evaluation when experience has been gained with the impact of regulatory regulation on cooperatives, so that any necessary adjustments can be made if, for example, there is a lack of knowledge. further distortions of competition in markets with few and large players which make it difficult for other players to enter the market. We all agree that the vast majority of existing cooperatives do not pose any competition law problem, simply because they are small and carry on very small and limited economic activities. It is in the case of the few large and dominant actors that warnings from the Right and the Progress Party should be listened to and followed up in the future. It is important to provide for more flexible arrangements for the payment of e.g.: capital and profits, withdrawals and interest, to mention something. Finally, I would like to say that, as far as the rapporteur's question is concerned, we would like to have an evaluation of a law in which, after all, some observations have been made about negative consequences, it simply has its background in the fact that we have not seen the Government base this element of competition as a premise in the Committee's comments on this matter, for example. in forestry. It does not hold that, on the one hand, emphasis needs to be placed on competition law, when it is done the opposite way in forestry. Therefore, we strongly warn: do not carry out an evaluation as quickly as possible. If it takes three years or five years, it's kind of not the primary one. The primary thing is to be assured that this type of impact is addressed, so that the consideration of competition does not simply become empty words by the majority. For the Right Party and the Progressive Party, it is extremely important that we not only contribute to the creation of new cooperatives, but also prevent large established and dominant cooperatives from abuse of their real market power. There should also be good policy for the red-green majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e139	The size is currently adopting Norway’s first general law on cooperatives. SV has long wanted to adopt a law on cooperatives, because we want more democratically run businesses. A separate cooperative law can provide these types of enterprises with a safer environment in an increasingly market liberalised society. We are therefore very pleased that we can adopt this law today. Already in 2002 the Liaison Law Committee presented the NOU 2002:6, Act on Cooperative Enterprises, without the previous government, with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, taking hold of it. This shows that this government is following its promises. A number of considerations have been put forward by the SPC in favour of the adoption of a cooperative law. Among other things, the selection points to: that there is a social need for forms of organisation that promote active user participation both in economic activities and in society elsewhere. The sample points out that the lack of a cooperative law inhibits the use of the cooperative form. This is because the cooperative form is too little known, too little visible and too hard to find out. In 2006, only 331 of 34 892 newly registered enterprises were registered in the Brønnøysund Register of Cooperative Enterprises. SV believes that regulatory regulation can lead to more people using the form of co-operation. A law will include: make it easier to establish orphaned kindergartens, for example. We in SV are particularly concerned about the use of cooperative forms, because the cooperative is a democratic organisation based on principles of active user participation and voluntary and open membership. We believe that a cooperative law will help put the form of cooperation and the social economy on the agenda. The social economy is a term for activities that have utility or membership benefits and not profit as their main driving force. It is based on democratic values and is organisationally independent of the public sector. Experience from both domestic and foreign countries shows that the social economy can also play an important role in creating and maintaining viable communities. Examples include the Coop shops in the countryside as well as the fishing cooperative, which have long traditions of building up our communities. In the EU and several European countries, e.g. Sweden, the social economy is a political area. SV sees cooperatives as a modern and forward-looking form of organisation, which can actually be used in new areas and can be suitable for several different parts of business and society, such as power teams, boat associations, forest businesses and kindergartens – as mentioned earlier. We believe that a law could lead to changes in attitudes and that more people would want to start cooperatives. The rules on the formation of cooperatives are based on the idea that it is easy and inexpensive to set up new cooperatives – not requirements for specified minimum capital. The law is based on the fact that the formation of capital is primarily through contributions from members, withholding annual profits, saving schemes for members and external loan capital. The law further takes on the principle of ‘one member, one vote’, and not least: this law is based on the cooperative principles adopted by the international cooperative alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e165	On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will also be pleased that there is now finally a law on cooperatives. I guess it was the Bondevik I government that started the process in its time, which is now culminating in a decision after various attempts have been made in the past. I do not need to go through the matter, but the case rapporteur has done so in an excellent way. I just want to point out a few points. We also have our own proposal. First of all, it might be good to mention that if you ask most people -- and there are some parties that are very concerned about it -- about what they think when they're asked what they connect with cooperatives, most people would say that they think about the local cooperative. In many communities, some people always acted on the cooperative team, while others never acted on the cooperative team. There was a germ to a never so small division in many communities. That time I think is over, but it also says something about the historical tradition, and I felt some of the speakers indirectly were inside. We in the Christian People's Party are very positive to the cooperatives, and will, as I said, support the whole proposal. However, we have a desire to raise a problem, and this is about raising capital from outside. We have submitted a proposal asking the Government to propose changes to the law that prevent the lock-in of collective capital, so that you can access the fund-semi. We are based there on Swedish and Finnish experiences. It is important for us to say that, at the same time, the law must have mechanisms to protect against the loss of equity, which, to this extent, would also be contrary to the basic principles of the cooperative entity. In our opinion, this access in Sweden and Finland led to the vitalisation of cooperatives there. We see that it can be important when you want to raise capital in a cooperative for industrial development, and where you don't get this through standard membership drawing. We are promoting a proposal and hoping to support it, including from the government parties. If they do not support it, but they will also send it to us, we will definitely be involved in assessing it. For the vote: Christian People's Party supports proposal No. 4 from the minority, and of course also the proposal made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e186	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e189	The Soria Moria Declaration states that proposals for new cooperative laws should be promoted during the period. The law shall provide the cooperative model with increased opportunities for development. This is now becoming a reality. Finally, we get a law on cooperatives. So we get a legal regulation of cooperatives as an organisational form. Thus, the cooperative will be a real company alternative for many purposes since a number of unclear or unregulated conditions now enter into legal forms, as is the case for limited liability companies or public limited liability companies. This applies, inter alia, to: the formation of cooperatives, responsibilities, obligations of owners, creditor protection and minority protection. From a socio-economic perspective, it is beneficial for legislation to offer a variety of different types of company with different qualities and different characteristics. This is now becoming a reality. Cooperatives are a long-established form of company used in Norway and ownership confers rights and obligations on owners. In recent years, forms of society have become more topical in several areas of society. In the rest of Europe, the term ‘social economy’ is stronger than in Norway, for example: the class conflicts are stronger. There is a widely used form of company for non-profit or member purposes where profit is not the driving force. Cooperation is thus widespread in areas such as health, care, research and culture. There are also relevant areas in Norway. It will be easy to set up a cooperative, to set up the company. It has simple requirements, it's easy to establish, and only two people are needed. There is no minimum deposit limit for the establishment of cooperatives, and there are simple voting rules: one member, one vote. This is the fourth time that a general law on cooperatives has been adopted in Norway, and for the Centre Party, this is a central programme item that is now being implemented. So in 2007 we succeed. The right hand side and the front side are counterproductive at this time, as in the past. Throughout history, economic liberals have actively countered business cooperatives. The red-green parts of the government have largely been on the same side for the cooperative. In many businesses, the Senterpartiet is almost identified with just co-operatives. It is true that the Centre Party is a hot member of the cooperative, while facilitating the use of different forms of company for different purposes. The form of the public limited liability company is well usable for its purposes. But now that we finally get a cooperative law, or community law, cooperative law, many more entrepreneurs and industries will see opportunities in the form of cooperatives and set up such companies. We're very happy about that. The centre party is in favour of competition between different types of companies. The Right Party and the Progressive Party state in their observations that the objections to the law-making of cooperatives are contrary to competition. Yes, if the strategic management of a cooperative enterprise by cooperative owners is forward-looking and ideological, enterprises with the form of limited liability companies shall be quite unique in order to compete when, for example: relate to industries where it is necessary for the many professionals to jointly lift in order to increase market power and thus fair prices for the products or for the goods purchased. This applies both to purchasers of goods and services which are increasingly acting as a few-man field, and to sellers who are deliberately working to gain a similar market power. Cooperation is the tool of many in the business world to balance power relationships. This is the Central Party's historical line. The right has been a sharp opponent. This is an important ideological distinction. With an increasingly free flow of capital and a more united focus on the share price, the strategic management of the share companies is becoming more and more short-term. This is a weakness that is becoming increasingly apparent and creates uncertainty in people. For example, scattered private, national ownership of limited liability companies becomes in practice difficult to realise in relation to a strategic bid from an international group. For cooperatives, ownership functions differently. Control of ownership in a cooperative is linked to trade and use according to the purpose of the company. Anyone who no longer fulfils that criterion should therefore be redeemed. Thus, the transferability of shares is, in principle, unnecessary. In the event of a change of ownership, the former owner is triggered and a new owner is offered unit-holders. The ownership of cooperatives thus becomes more long-term. There's been a lot of discussion about fund-semistration, and there I would like to make it clear that it's a fund-semission, not a new issue, that the Christian People's Party's representative gave the impression. So there are questions about how to use already established funds, and that point needs to be looked at. It is an area that has not been addressed, and thus a little closer look at it by reviewing the joint body of cooperatives and then assessing what is appropriate in the future. Finally, we are talking about owners of cooperatives, not members. And we're talking about a return also on equity and member deposits in line with the Rockdale principles, limited returns. We're satisfied with the balance that the government has made at that point, with a maximum return.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e223	First of all, the practical conclusion: the left supports the bill and we support all the paragraphs in the bill. In that context of an ideological debate that has been, I think I should bring in even more shades. The left sees no problem in the existence of different forms of ownership and responsibilities in a modern society. So we don't see the fact that we get modern co-operative legislation that opens up that form of ownership and that form of cooperation, contrary to having a consistent and hard fight to create easier and simplified conditions for small companies, for active owners, for workers. The fact that we should clean up the workforce is a fight that the Left will continue in alliance with all those who will be with us about it. Nor do we see the cooperative idea as opposed to a thought that was a little strange to me when I started in politics, but for which I later got the sense, and which belongs to a different political direction, namely self-ownership democracy. There are different ways of taking responsibility and exercising power in a well-functioning modern society economy and in a market. The law that is now coming has taken some time. There's a lot of reasons for that, but it's coming, it's good. It is also important to stress, as several speakers have done, that the law allows for activities other than what is traditionally thought of in terms of co-operation and co-operation, namely food production and food turnover. So I think, like other speakers, that there is a form of ownership that can also be exciting in other areas of society. There are several speakers who have shown it, and the Left shares that thinking. With regard to the other proposals submitted, no vote shall be taken on two of them here in Odelstinget today. I just want to signal that we have considerable sympathy for proposal No. 5, on forestry. We don't look at it the same way we look at the rest of – let's call it – the chains of agriculture. But it's one thing that I don't want to go into a debate about here, because it's not part of the law itself. With regard to Hans Olav Syversen's proposal, at least I think it is worth an assessment – it is not a proposal that should only be put aside. So I hope that representatives of the majority can also comment on the proposal. The very idea that countries such as Sweden and Finland are in a positive position to play a role in the social economy is in favour of giving the representative Syversen at least a reasonable assessment. With these comments, I hereby declare that the Left votes in favour of the legislative proposal as a whole. That also means that we are voting against the legislative amendments tabled by the Right and the Advance Party here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e238	It's a pleasure day for us who are followers of the cooperative. I have to say that I do not know anything more red-green than organizing economic activity in the cooperative – there are at least several of the figures of the government parties involved. There is every reason to hope that this law, which is adopted at Odelstinget today, can actually be the beginning of a very important start for many activities and for many new cooperatives in the whole country. I heard that the representative Horne – or if it was the representative Dahl, it was at least from the opposition – was about the question of what it was now that had kind of loosened up in relation to obtaining this law. Then I only have one answer: there has been a change of government in Norway. We now see division in the old government parties. The Right Party and the Progressive Party now stand on their proposals, and we heard a former Minister of Justice being up and explaining what he would support. I think maybe some of the reasons are there: it's nice sometimes to get government change, because then we get as important laws as this actually is. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal to regulate the form of interoperability. Norway is one of the few European countries that have not — and this despite the widespread presence of Norwegian cooperatives. We have 2 million members in cooperatives. Many of us are members in several places. There are many cooperatives, and it is therefore high time that Norway had its first cooperative law. The adoption of the cooperative law is therefore an important event not only for the cooperative movement but also for the Norwegian society as a whole. Co-operation already plays a central role in parts of the economy and society. I hope and believe that the cooperative law will lead to an even greater dissemination and recognition of the cooperative form. In my view, this form of organisation represents a useful supplement and alternative to government organisation and capital-based forms of organisation. It has not been given that government governance or private profit maximisation is the solution to all the problems and challenges we face. The form of cooperation represents a third path with its democratic, user-participating and inclusive character. The form of cooperation may be appropriate in almost all areas where citizens, businesses or public bodies can see themselves serving to cooperate in order to safeguard common financial interests or to meet common needs. The SPC’s investigation and proposal contain a number of examples of areas where the form of cooperation can be appropriate — I would also like to say — not only in terms of the needs of members but also in terms of society’s needs in relation to cultural development and environmental issues. After all, car collectors are a good example of how to take care of the interests of both man, society and the global world in terms of the environment. We see that this is an organisational form that creates security, predictability and good economic governance, while at the same time taking care of important societal considerations. That is why I believe that a cooperative law can not only be seen as a civil law project, but it should be seen in a wider political context. The law of cooperation has a side to key policy areas such as kindergarten development. I have mentioned the environment. I mention welfare, the organisation of public activities, culture, etc. For example, a cooperative law will: facilitate the establishment of orphaned kindergartens. Yesterday several of us were visiting Stallen Kindergarten in Frognerparken here in Oslo and got a very vivid impression of just that. The Landsförbund of Private Barnehager says this to us in its hearing opinion: ‘The proposal for a law on cooperatives is, in the PBL’s view, an absolute necessity, and the only overall instrument capable of ensuring both start-ups, further stable operation, that third party considerations are respected, and flexibility in the form of opportunities to make structural changes and transformations, etc.’.» With its emphasis on needs, user benefits and societal responsibility, the form of cooperation has features that harmonize well with environmental policy objectives, which I had in place. The car collectives in the largest cities may therefore be the best example of how the cooperative form can play with the environment. Greater care and care tasks should still be a public responsibility. But in addition to this, there are many tasks that can be organised on a cooperative basis. For example, I would like to draw up ULOba, a user-driven personal assistance cooperative. This is an enterprise where disabled people are given the necessary help by assistants for whom the disabled seas are supervisors. As the President will understand, we are far from the idea of the fund issue. Now that Norway is given its first general cooperative law, I am very pleased that the law has such broad and solid support. It belongs to the units of rareness that there is so much agreement on such extensive legal work. This suggests that there is now a strong desire to have the law passed. However, some have made critical comments on the legislative proposal. The views of the minority fraction are illustrative for some of the objections raised in the legislative process. To this is to say: The criticisms are few.They represent enterprises or interests that will not be covered by the law.They only want to change a few very few of the 164 paragraphs of the Act. They seek to eliminate the characteristic features of cooperatives as an organisational form. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right wish the law to allow freely transferable shares, fund-semistration and unlimited return on capital. Common to these proposals is that they will make cooperatives more like capital companies. I cannot see that the proposals will be in line with the overall objectives of this legislative work. I am thinking in particular of the desire to facilitate cooperative organisation and the desire to preserve the specific nature of the cooperative form. On the contrary, the proposals may be suitable for weakening the cooperative and removing characteristic features of cooperatives as an organisational form. It is such that both the issue of freely transferable shares, the fund issue and unlimited return on capital have been carefully assessed in the legislative process and in the legislative process, and in the proposition on which it is based. The government has made a thorough assessment of this. In my view, it is important for legislation to offer a range of different types of organisation with different qualities and characteristics, so that operators can choose the most appropriate form of organisation for their activities. In such a light, it would be very unfortunate to erase the differences between cooperatives and the capital companies and, through a cooperative law, to get almost a «liability company light». If the form of cooperation is to be seen as a real alternative to the organisation of economic activities, it requires that the form of cooperation retains its specific characteristics. Those who wish for the specificities of the company law will then have the full freedom to choose the type of form of organisation by forming a limited liability company. The minority fraction claims that there is no fundamental difference between the objectives of limited liability companies and cooperatives – as the case-leader was also involved – and that it is therefore fully possible to operate cooperatives within the framework of forms of organisation such as partnerships and limited liability companies. I don't share this vision. Both public limited liability companies and cooperatives have the right economic main purpose, but the purpose is realized in a wide variety of ways. There is a large difference between passive capital position and active user participation. That's where the germ of the whole form of co-operation comes in. The issue was further discussed by the Cooperative Committee, which concluded that capital companies are not suitable for the exercise of cooperative activities. Pressing cooperatives into the regulatory regime and thinking of the capital companies is, in my view, a very bad idea. Furthermore, the minority fraction has claimed that it violates the principle of equality that the statutes of a cooperative work provide for members to be entitled to a share of net worth when they are outsourced. I would point out that the rule does not discriminate against the members, as all the members of a working party would be entitled to a share of net worth if the statutes had such a provision. The law provides for non-discrimination, non-discrimination. Furthermore, the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right consider that the legislative proposal contains a number of unclear provisions. It must be acknowledged that not all provisions are as sharply cut. It is related to the fact that it is not always possible to formulate crystal-clear rules which, at the same time, lead to reasonable results in any case. Sometimes it is necessary to resort to discretionary words and expressions in order to satisfy the desire for concrete reasonableness. This is not specific to the cooperative law. Furthermore, the content of the provisions is further specified in the preparatory work of the law. The law would be very comprehensive and not transparent if all of these clarifications were to be included in the legal text. The minority fraction has underlined that the law should not lead to a deterioration in the competitive situation of operators competing with cooperatives. They have proposed that an evaluation of the law be carried out within three years of its entry into force and that the evaluation should cover the competitive effects. I see no need to carry out such an evaluation, and I may come back to it in a later article, as my time is now up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e295	The President will say that the regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is over, but the Stortinget has agreed earlier today that we should continue until today's map has been completed. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e300	It was a nice hearing trick by the Minister of Justice in the beginning. In today's edition of the Nations, there is a beautiful picture of two present masters, namely the Minister of Justice and the representative of Breen. In the interview there, the representative of Breen says, among other things: the following on the Cooperative Act: ‘The right-hand side does not recognise the fact that owners may not necessarily be owners, but also members.’ If there's a difference between being a member and being a owner, I'm a little surprised. I would also like to think that the farmers in Norway who are the owners and members of the Agricultural Cooperation will feel surprised at that. So I would like to hear the views of the Council of State. Is it not the case, as the representative Lundteg said, that the fact that one is both owner and member is what is the force of the law, and not as the representative of Breen seems to say, that there is a contradiction between the two?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e312	This debate on concepts vis-à-vis those participating in a cooperative has not posed a problem in the legislative process. If you look at them as owners, something I don't have a significant problem with doing, or if you view them as active participants, I think it's secondary to the major challenges we face in terms of cooperatives. What fascinates me with cooperatives is that it is linked to active participation of those involved in the cooperative, also in relation to crowns and ears. There is no passive capital management. That's what makes it so stimulating, because it gives every society good opportunities to create growth, sensible and sustainable growth – not only from the point of view of profit maximisation, but also from the fact that people are close to and actively involved in economic governance. Then it'll be up to all of us to define them either as members or as owners. I think it's actually subordinate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e319	In the questionnaire yesterday, the Government was challenged by the active enterprise policy. Then the State Council replied to the Enoxsen a whole lot, but in concrete terms they were left with management wages. It was a proposal that was launched by the previous government, and that the Right voted in favour. Today we got an example number. 2: cooperative law. The law of cooperation is the only example of an active industrial policy. The entire Committee presupposes that competition policy considerations are to be addressed through sectoral and competition law. It is in a way premise to have competition in the market. However, does the Council of State understand that the forestry industry is concerned about the proposed regulation on anti-competitive activities in forestry? Will the Government clarify this in relation to the EEA, or is the rejection of this proposal example No. 2 on what is the active enterprise policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e324	This is completely on the side of what Odelstinget is invited to treat now. We will deal with a legal text on cooperatives. I fully agree with the previous speakers in this debate who have pointed out that the competitive assessments surrounding this need to be carried out in other forums, and at least in other cases. I think it's an attempt at a diversion from an omission from the Right, which you really shouldn't continue. So I just want to briefly refer to the competitive aspect and the assessments made in the proposition. The right bodies say that competition concerns and benefits are actually strengthened by this law. On the issue of industrial policy, many other measures also represent the industrial policy of the Government. It's not just the cooperative law. It's e.g. all that we have done in relation to the labour laws, labour measures, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e333	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e336	The purpose of the new cooperative law is to renew cooperative ownership, to underline the specific nature of this form of ownership and to give the cooperative organisation a status promise. Unlike other forms of ownership, the purpose of cooperatives is not primarily to maximise the return on invested capital but to safeguard the interests of members and consumers. The form of cooperation requires user involvement. Co-operatives are not the investment venues in the traditional sense. Any profits shall be returned to the members. Membership is initially open to all those who qualify to participate and who want it. The general rule is that each member has one vote at the annual meeting. Now this is being legalized. The infections of the Party of Advancement and the Right in relation to the Act of Cooperatives are likely to spring out of the distrust of cooperative ownership generations. The continuous attack by the lots on the agricultural cooperative is probably an expression of exactly that. I am therefore not particularly surprised that the Progress Party and the Right are unable to free themselves from other forms of company in the understanding of the nature of the cooperatives. They obviously find it difficult to understand that the purpose of an entity need not be to maximise dividends for the owners. There are other possibilities. But this mental barrier, which also applies to the view of ownership of the Progress Party and the Right, in general, means that these parties keep their industrial policy focused on the bottom lines of the companies – and only there. Now, of course, I'm not blaming the right parties for being interested in profitability. Of course, the aim of all business activities is to create values. The difference lies in the distribution of the values. In cooperative enterprises, dividends go back to members according to the size of their turnover or may reduce the price of the effort, for example. in co-operative kindergartens. In the limited companies, as is known, the capital contribution is the determining factor for the dividends. It is this fundamental difference that sometimes makes it appropriate to use the cooperative form. As long as the Progress Party and the Right do not record this difference, it is not really strange that these parties equate the return requirements of limited liability companies and cooperatives. I quote from the comments of these parties in the setting: ‘Without a return requirement, it would be difficult to make rational investment decisions. [[...]] In this respect, there is no fundamental difference between the objectives of a limited liability company and a cooperative entity, and too many limited liability companies will be able to achieve the same objectives as those sought to do specifically for cooperatives.» And on the other hand, ‘It will therefore also be fully possible to operate cooperatives within the framework of forms of organisation such as a partnership or a limited liability company.’ Then I almost have to ask: is the Progress Party and the Right really against companies that are organised in a different way and have ideal intentions? Was it historically wrong for farmers and fishermen to organise their interests in joint ventures for the preservation and marketing of their products? Today, fishermen's and farmers' cooperatives guarantee the marketing of their products. At least we had to expect the right parties to recognise the historical importance of consumer cooperation for Norwegian trade in goods, and today as a necessary counterpart to the market power of the large food chains. Not least the latter is important. We continue to see how food chains exercise their market power, and not always for the benefit of consumers, even if the advertising sometimes prejudges this. Internationally, the form of co-operation is similar — and if not more so — to ours. I don't know if it can help the understanding of certain parties when I mention that large parts of French and Italian wine sales are actually cooperative. But the relationship is that the cooperative is on the rise in several countries in Europe, including in our neighbouring country Sweden. I believe that the cooperative law will contribute to a similar clean-up of us, and the cooperative will be put into operation in ever-new areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e357	I would like to start by saying that I think the representative of Gullvåg's posts as usual gave a small representative picture of the business policy of the Right. I would like to say at the outset that I believe it is a good business policy, albeit not particularly revolutionary or marginal, that Odelstinget today adopts its own law on cooperatives. Co-operation is a special way of organising activities. We have many cooperative organisations in Norway, and they include large values and many jobs in different industries. Therefore, it is important that cooperatives have their own law. The reason why I speak in this debate is that some cooperatives and this law have an important aspect in relation to competition policy. Competition is important in most markets, and it is also true in markets where cooperatives operate, either as small or medium-sized players or as very dominant actors, as we see in some industries. It is therefore positive that the Committee in its nomination underlines the importance of the neutral nature of competition law and sectoral legislation as a clear starting point and that the Competition Act is a tool that is used independently of company form. These principles of non-discrimination are addressed to the right. Unfortunately, the wording is somewhat in contrast to what we have seen in competition policy from this government so far in the period, in which in particular cooperatives seem to have good support players in the Government and thus a particularly good opportunity to get around the rules of the Competition Act. For example, the cooperation company prior received: purchase and shut down the egg producer Norgården AS, against the decision of the Competition Authority. The decision was taken on a purely political basis, by the Government, where the explanation was the need to build up a dominant player in advance of any WTO agreement and the related increased import competition once in the future. This is a justification that proved not to be valid, as the WTO negotiations broke down shortly later. I think it is highly doubtful whether this kind of uncertain and theoretical justification for achieving a dominant market position in Norway would have kept up with the government we have today, if it was not a cooperative. The joint ventures Prior and Gilde were then merged, against the decision of the Competition Authority. The Ministry of Agriculture has attacked the 2003 Competition Authority’s decision on cheese imports because it was thought that this was a problem for the TINE cooperative. The proposal to tighten the rules for the foreign processing of Norwegian agricultural raw materials is designed to give agricultural cooperation a stronger market position. This is so restrictive for competition that our neighbouring countries, in addition to the Norwegian actors based on foreign processing, have reacted strongly, so strongly that the government has made a right in this area, and the conversion has been put in the drawer. The treatment of private dairy operators Q-meierien and Synnueuve The finding in the milk market organisation in relation to the TINE cooperative has also been very conflicty up until a few weeks ago. These examples show that there is a need for a high level of vigilance in the relationship between cooperatives and competition policy. Competition is important both for consumers and for business, regardless of how industry actors are organised. Unfortunately, the government does not seem to respect the principles of non-discrimination of forms of company referred to in the position, either in the case of forestry. In this context, I refer to the recent consultation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on anti-competitive activities in forestry. The Ministry of Agriculture justifies the exemption from the Competition Act that it is necessary to carry out priority tasks. This is a specific competitive policy treatment for forestry cooperatives that is highly questionable. It turns out that the level of costs, including: for forestry planning, is 20-30 pst. higher in areas of low competition, i.e. counties such as Uppland, Telemark, Agder counties, Westland, Trondelag counties and northwards. The forest cooperative has built up a significant capital base with a background in its history and market position. Today, a share of the profits from the operation of the forest owner’s shares and the return on co-operative capital are linked to the members’ turnover of wood. This type of coupling of profits from the business, which then includes capital management, to trade in wood makes it difficult for other players to enter the market. Part of the forestry industry considers that the proposal for a regulation derogating from the Competition Act for parts of forestry restricts competition. This in turn leads to lower profitability in some regions, and thus also to lower yields as an important policy objective. I would like to stress that it is positive that Odelstinget today adopts its own cooperative law. The main content of the case is not, nor is it, the comments made by the Committee on competition policy. The objections are that the Government on a case-by-case basis appears to discriminate between cooperatives in relation to competition policy. It is a policy on which neither consumers, business nor society in general have anything to gain. And I hope that today's decision on a new cooperative law does not reinforce these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e383	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e387	Many associate the term "cooperative" with something from Gerhardsen's time, a bit dusty and antique, almost like black-and-white TV or film newspapers with post-war speech. There's no reason to think so. Today there are a number of activities organised as cooperatives, and there is room for much more. Even through previous business, I have met a number of young, good people who want to set up a business, but who simply think that a limited liability company is too risky. Capital shall be raised, an agreement shall be made with the statutory auditor; it is at all times quite complicated to initiate the most recent contractors. I think we are doing something that is really clever today, and I hope, of course, that the Storting will adopt the new cooperative law. This is in line with SV's wishes. The law will provide the cooperative model with increased opportunities for development, and businesses wishing to weigh other than pure profit maximisation will be affected by their business that can meet other needs. The cooperative model will simply make some businesses a more honest version of themselves. So I would say that there is a very important change when we now have an obstacle that individual participants who leave cooperatives can take with them the entire share of the accumulated capital, but only get their deposits out. This will make the cooperative more stable, and it will be an effective barrier to speculation and short-term profit, which is the straight contrast to the concept of the cooperative model. There are two reasons why the law is important and will have effects. The new law will bring ‘order and find out’ in an organisational form that is preferred and very widespread in some sectors and where the rules essentially provide a legal basis for the law in force. The law will, directly and indirectly, contribute to the fact that in the future, far more people will choose the form of cooperation when they set up activities, like activities for the benefit of the community, and not necessarily the investors' wallet. That's what SV and I think is very positive. Then I would like to make a comment on Torbjørn Hansen. I just have to say that I have heard the complaint about the merger between Gilde and Prior so many times – and it has been rejected so many times – that I choose to say that now I have closed my ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e402	It is very good that we now arrange forms of organisation that are very widespread in some sectors. Most people have said that here today that has had the word, and of course I agree with that. The laws will directly and indirectly contribute to the fact that far more in the future will choose precisely the form of cooperation when they establish new companies. The law also makes a proposal on the third stock law, as proposed by the Progress Party and the Right, even more unnecessary in my view. There was also no support for the third shareholders law during the hearing, on the contrary. The Labour Party was also concerned about all the so-called NUFs, which everyone here knows what is: Norwegian-registered foreign companies. We were all concerned about the growth in these companies. As you know, the requirement for share capital is very low. Of course, it varies from country to country, but it is very low. This cooperative will enable you to, for example, kindergartens, boathouses, etc. in a simple and straightforward way to establish a non-capitalised company. So the NUFs lost their predominance here. Co-operatives will also contribute to Norway’s entry into the EU, especially after Sweden, by putting social economy on the agenda. I think it's very good that we get a law where there's splintering on the use, and not profit, which is the main goal. It's like music in our red-green ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e417	First of all, I want to reassure the representative Ellingsen that I didn't understand what I had said in the nation today either. Whether I've said something wrong, or if I'm quoted wrong, I'm a little unsure, but I can blame it. I find it a pity that the minister has to use the line change to explain what I have said or not said. The reason I took the floor now was so much that the representative Dørum challenged us to add some comments to the proposal of the Christian People's Party on the fund issue. It is a matter which the Committee has discussed many times and which was a topic of the consultation round. It is also true that there were only three out of 47 hearing bodies that had gone in to allow fund-semistration in the consultation round. There is some background to the proposal by the Liaison Committee and the Ministry of Justice to continue the general rule of law in force. The reason for this is that the fund issue can easily lead to interest on the units' deposits in breach of the interoperability principles. It may also lead to those who are members at a given time and who may have only been members for a short time to gain access to values created mainly by others, both existing and former members. In addition, the financial position of the undertaking may be seriously impaired if members may increase the share deposits by means of a fund-semistration in order to require payment of the deposits in connection with the outsourcing of the undertakings. If we were to go in to open up a fund issue, one would have to have looked at the rules of disfellowshipping in the law. In comparison, I would like to point out that when limited liability companies have access to fund issues, it must be seen in the context of the fact that shareholders cannot withdraw from the company with the right to have the capital contribution paid out, as a member of a cooperative undertaking is entitled to do in accordance with the general rule set out in Section 22 of the bill. In a limited liability company, such withdrawal from the company must follow the rules for a reduction in capital laid down in Chapter 12 of the Share Act, such as: claims credit warning and there must be cover for tied equity. In my opinion, any rules on the fund issue of cooperatives require equivalent restrictions on access to the share deposit in connection with outsourcing, as is the case for limited liability companies. In this case, however, the cooperative law approaches the form of a limited liability company to such an extent that there is reason to raise questions about the point of a cooperative law at all, in line with the capital requirement, for which the Right and the Advance Party have previously worked. That's why the red-greens won't be in favour of a fund-semistration idea in the cooperative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e428	I would first like to say that in this matter the Minister of Justice has done a very good job. The history description he came up with is quite comprehensive in relation to the view of the Center Party. An ongoing debate on the road ahead is important. When creating a cooperative, we know that it's equity capital. In the further development of the company, much more equity is needed, and one can then withhold some profits from the company, i.e. not distribute what is the financial profit of the company, to the owners in the form of members' benefits. The active substance is then to withhold the profits of the fund, joint ownership of the company. The weakness of the fact that owners’ interest and involvement in the company are not sufficiently stimulated, and therefore the theme of fund-semistration has emerged among cooperative ideologists and cooperatives. As I said before, we're talking about fund-semision, not new issue. This is not about raising new capital for the company. There is a question of converting capital, which is in the company's fund, into shareholders' share capital. In other words, in the case of a fund issue, an extension of the company's share capital may be made by means of a transfer of funds from the company's fund, and this may be done by allocating more than one share to the unit-holders or by increasing their denomination. The Norwegian Association of Forestry Associations, in its proposal for the revitalisation of the cooperative form, has stressed the need for unit-holders to keep a surplus in the company in order to build up capital in the value chain of which the company is part, but should it remain an alternative to the owners, they must at the same time be assured that they can participate in the increase in value which this represents. The Minister of Justice's reply to the Committee on 22 March confirms that this is a problem which the Ministry has not worked on. The Council of State seems to believe that if access to a fund issue is introduced, all equity will have to be individualised, i.e. transferred to the unit-holders. In the view of the Centre Party, it is not necessary to do so, whether that is the consequence of the proposal of the members of the Right and the Advance Party to the fourth paragraph of Section 22. whereas the purpose of a provision of law on fund issues must be to lay down provisions which balance differences of opinion; The statutes of the cooperative may, for example: by a qualified majority open to fund issue, if the share-owned equity following the issue is equal to or greater than 70 pst. of total equity. As a result, the company and the creditors are secured against excessive collection of equity upon discharge. Finally, the Centre Party is not a member of the Judicial Committee, but supports the Workers' Party and the SV's comments and legislative proposals. Content of the proposal of the Christian People's Party, No. 8, I have commented quite carefully, and I hope that it can be turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e443	A few years ago, I had the most dubious pleasure of participating in a bank's board of directors. When we discussed the merger between DnB and Mutual NOR, one of the participants said there: I really don't like those shares, I. I think it's kind of touching to hear some people talk about how important this is. It is an enormous commitment to the individuals who are to be able to engage in business and to realise the mass of non-profit interests. We agree, but it would have been a good thing if you had had the exact same commitment to the individuals, one or two, who are trying to start a business, and were trying to get a company – a corporation – to survive, but then with a term like profit maximisation. This profit maximisation, what is it? Well, it's actually that individuals are trying to get the majority of companies in Norway that are small and medium-sized to survive, so that they can pay themselves and pay their employees. In fact, at the time of purchase, they also contribute a lot to the local environment. I think that the next time we deal with proposals to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to survive – and not least to be started – we should show the same touching commitment and not call it profit maximisation, as one has actually done here today. It was a representative who said that it is so difficult to start a company with shares, and that we must therefore make it easier to establish cooperatives. But the reason why it's so hard is that the majority of people in this room here have rejected almost all of the suggestions that would make people who want to start an AS. Then they might not have had to go through London and set up a NUF, which you were so worried about. There has been no contribution in any way to providing a majority for such proposals. So finally, because I saw that the president thought the debate should be over soon, I shall say something positive about cooperatives. I've actually assessed it myself. At an age when you're halfway to retirement, you also start to think about maybe getting into a nursing home once. I think with horror and horror that you can be placed with a whole bunch of people you don't want to be with, and maybe don't have good habits. Then, in fact, the form of cooperation that I want to evaluate myself with four or five good friends, consider establishing a cooperative, so that we four or five can be together – perhaps not the representative Breen, but perhaps a few others, who are even closer friends than the representative Breen – and end their lives that way. Then I think the cooperative form can actually be quite ideal to use, and then I think we might end the debate in the spirit that cooperative regulation is positive, but at the same time I wish that the next crossroads showed more concern for the small and medium-sized enterprises, showed care for those who want to establish a limited company.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e456	I would like to take this opportunity to refute a few allegations that have emerged in this debate, particularly from the representative Steinar Gullvåg of the Workers' Party, who suggested that the Progress Party has done everything in its power to counter the cooperative organisation, and on several occasions has been specifically attacked by the agricultural cooperative. This is so bad. The Progress Party has no objection to the cooperative organisation, but has seen it as any other way of organizing itself. It should be free for actors to organise themselves in this way. Nor has the party involved in any attack on agricultural cooperation. The issues raised by the Progress Party in the field of agricultural cooperation are those of competition. What has been at the heart of the dispute in some parts of the agricultural area is that agricultural cooperation has too much of the market, so that consumers get out of that situation. I have clarified this from this pulpit a number of times, and it should be unnecessary to repeat this from the opposition's side when it has been rejected so many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e470	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e473	There's a lot you can hear from Stortingen's pulpit, and the last one is that we've now got a new party political friend in the cooperative. It's the Progress Party, and it's joyous. The progress party has now no objection to the cooperative; it does not want any attack on the agricultural cooperative. It is true that in future we can also count on the support of the Advance Party to maximise the opening-up of agricultural cooperation, so that the many small producers can thus be stronger in relation to chains, which exercise significant market power. This is a joyous development. The centre party will follow closely, and see if this also applies in practice in the cases that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e480	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 527]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e496	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e503	I will not help to extend this meeting very much. The matter we are now dealing with is a consequence of St.prp. No 46 for 2006-2007, which was dealt with in Stortinget earlier today, on insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles, which is part of the EEA Agreement. The aim of the amendment is to update and improve existing directives, and the changes are to strengthen the position of the injured party by increasing the level of liability for damage to property. It is positive that certain motor vehicles which are currently exempt from the insurance obligation can be treated in the same way as uninsured vehicles, so that the Transport Insurance Association will bear financial responsibility. However, there is reason to believe that the premium for insurance will increase because insurance companies will have to pay larger amounts than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e514	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[Fotation, see page 556]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e530	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will also propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e539	I am pleased that our government has prioritised the work of obtaining a new reindeer permit. It's been a lot of work. After the business committee got to grips with the matter, we held an open hearing in Alta, and there has been open consultation here in Stortinget. The most central changes in the legislative proposal are related to resource management, sanctions provisions, the introduction of pages in the provisions on internal organisation, rules on the establishment of lateral proportions and gender equality. The starting point for the proposal for a new reindeer management law is the proposal of the Reindrift Law Committee. Experience over many years in the relationship between the public and the reindeer industry has shown that decisions taken by the authorities have lacked legitimacy in the industry, and this has reduced the impact of the decisions. Today’s law is also deficient in terms of the possibility of taking action and of sanctioning whose decisions are not followed up. And that's what I'm doing. According to the new law, the process of determining the reindeer numbers starts from below and up, not from above and down as today. In concrete terms, the reindeer district is to propose the reindeer number, on the basis of the resource base available to the side and the district. It's important to be clear that it's the side owners, i.e. the reindeer marines, who sit on the district board. The provisions on how to reduce excessive cleanness result in a significant improvement in relation to current law, and the new law regulates in detail how this should be done. In western Finland, in particular, it has been a major challenge to adapt the purity to the resource base. The new sanctions rules, combined with the rules on the regulation of an excessive redundancy rate, now provide a much better tool for reducing redundancy. In this respect, it is essential to balance the consideration of industrial self-government with the overall obligation and responsibility of the State to ensure that the ratio does not exceed the resource base. But it is important to note that even now the industry is being held responsible in a completely different way than before. The site is not only a work community but also the central basis for traditional use of reindeer pastures, and these now have a central role to play. This applies in relation to both the representation of the district government and the preparation of grazing rules, including the determination of the reindeer number. In order to respond to signals from the reindeer industries, the Committee has proposed to increase the number of members of the district board if specific circumstances so warrant. In my opinion, the impression after the consultations and hearings is that the Sametinget and NRL adhere to a lot in this law. It's natural that in the last round there was a lot of focus on the points of disagreement. But there is reason to stress that the conditions of the reindeer vary greatly from area to area in our country. That's the challenge of the law. In addition to the traditional Sami reindeer, the law also regulates the relationship to the operation of the domestic reindeer. The merger and the NRL have pointed out that the reindeer management law must have a reference to the ILO Convention. The Committee has had contact with the Ministry on this issue, and it has been well explained why this is not being followed up, and I believe that a joint committee, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, supports the ministry's assessment and conclusion on this point. I also show that a new joint court committee is working. They shall investigate, inter alia: questions about the land use and rights of the Sámi reindeer and other than Finnmark. Furthermore, it has been pointed out by the Sami reindeer management team that they regard the rules on reindeer fixing as overruns that do not take into account Sami self-government. In my opinion, this is the opposite we are now doing, by making the industry responsible even in a completely different way from what is done in old law. An important premise for law work has also been that reindeer operations depend on biological resources and that their use must be sustainable in the long term. For the reindeer, it is now urgent to put in place a law that, in a better way than old law, facilitates sustainable reindeer management. It must be possible to achieve the objective of an economic, ecological and culturally sustainable and healthy reindeer industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e573	Let me first commend the case rapporteur for a good work on this matter. Secondly, I would like to re-examine the proposals that the Progress Party has made either with others or alone in the vote. The Progress Party also believes that the proposed new reindeer management law is a better tool to regulate the reindeer industry than the law that has been in place so far. There have been some examples of the need for state authorities to go into and regulate the reindeer industry — in this respect, with the reduction of the size of parts of Finnland, and some tragic stories have also been made about animal protection. Therefore, the Progress Party is also pleased that a unanimous committee has agreed that we should refer to animal protection and clarify it in the fourth paragraph of Section 1. That is what the Progress Party believes is important. It's important that that clarification came into the law. However, the question is whether it helps to introduce a new reindeer management law. There are significant differences between the understanding of reality between parts of the reindeer industry and government authorities, among others. as regards the need to reduce the purity of parts of Finnmark. The question is whether the industry will comply with a new law. The next question is whether the state is tough enough to use the tools that the law gives access to to to reduce the purity. We know there's a biological disaster in West Finland. Professor Reidar Elven in the herbarium collection at the Botanical Museum at the University of Oslo states the following to the NRK Troms and Finnmark 30 May 2007: ‘Samian reindeer management damages the biodiversity of Finnmark’s territory. The problem is the size of the reindeer flocks. The winter grazing areas throughout the interior of Finnland are approximately destroyed.’» He also specifies that: ‘Most of the reinlavene has already been eaten or drained by pure.’ Further: ‘The most severely affected areas are already deserted.’ So this is one of the country's leading experts on this. It is also obvious that reindustry is an industry that is very difficult for the big community to control. It has to do with the whole industry's way of operating. It requires a large control apparatus, and it is expensive to set such a device in motion. However, we believe that the annual reindeer agreement could be a tool for reducing the reindeer number. It is obvious that the way in which public funds are channelled into an already too large reindeer industry is productive. Therefore, a key instrument for reducing the number of clean areas would be to reduce the public aid granted under the reindeer management agreement. It is no secret that the Progress Party wants to wind up the reindeer management agreement. We have voted against the reindeer agreement, and we will do it again this year. It is therefore important – and we have promoted this in a proposal – that it is the state that has to enter and define the reindeer in the various areas, not the district government, as the state puts it. The district government is made up of the industry itself, and it goes without saying what challenges it will be to reduce the reindeer dramatically.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e605	The President would point out that the speaker used the word "svada" in his previous speech. It is not a special parliamentary expression, so the President is pleased that he did not use it in this post, and encourages him to continue with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e608	I want to join the rose from the Progress Party to the case spokesperson. This is a very important matter, and I thought the case-speaker has cleared up the issues that have arisen so that we have got a very clear and good attitude from the committee. That being said, a few words on the subject. Right supports the changes proposed by the Government, and indicates that most of these changes are from work over time. Mainly, the proposals for changes to the laws of NOU 2001:35 from the Rein driftslov selection. There has also been a thorough process of retrieving views from the reindeer industry through, among other things. an extensive hearing and the administrative consultation process. This is how most people would have had the opportunity to come up with a point of view on this matter. I want to show that it is now 15 years since Stortinget last dealt with a separate biggest message about reindeer operation. Right, I think there's got to be a new reindeer message based on the big changes that have occurred in the reindeer since then. There have been major changes at several levels: on the ecological level, with land use interventions, land loss, predatory loss and climate change, and on the legal level, with changes with an increased focus on customary law, new reindeer management law and new reindeer grazing convention. At the same time, at the economic level, it has our changes in the conversion of back-up and replacement arrangements. These extensive changes in a relatively short period of time suggest that we are the basis for asking for a separate notification about the reindeer. Reindeer industries, particularly in Finnland, have challenges related to large production variations, low slaughter weights, very high reported predatory losses and low productivity. It is also marketable to demand the disposal of the meat. The purpose of production is important for the economy in the industry. The proposal for a separate message from the Right and several other parties is already pending. I hope for broad support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e623	The starting point for the government's reintroduction policy is in St.meld. No 28 for 1991-1992, Sustainable reindeer management. It states that the objective of reindeer management policy is the development of ecological, economic and culturally sustainable reindeer management. The Purity Act and the Annual Repurchase Agreement are the tool of the Storting to follow up these objectives of the reindeer management policy. At the same time, when a proposal for a new reindeer law is presented, it is a recognition that we need a better tool, a more precise tool to achieve the objectives we have set for ecological, economic and culturally sustainable reindeer management. The reindeer is, as opposed to livestock farming, based on natural pastures. Rain goes on non-cultivative land and has to take to heart what nature offers at all times of crops. The weather is unpredictable, and that means that the quality of the soil will vary between seasons and from year to year. Although the puree is adaptable with regard to different types of feed, the animals are vulnerable to changes. Adequate feed is central and if the pasturage is not available to the animals, e.g. due to ice, the animals must either be moved or further fed in order to survive. Unfortunately, none of these options are feasible in practice, with the result that pure is demagogued and simply starved. Fortunately, this is the exception and not the rule. Nevertheless, it has been important for SV to enter a new paragraph of Section 1 of the Act which clearly expresses the need to ensure the proper welfare of animals both within and outside the Sami reindeer pastures. The operating result for each reindeer will fluctuate as the quality of the pastures that the flock disposes of and the number of animals on which it is produced. Here, too, is the main challenge for the reindeer industry: to strike a proper balance between reindeer and grazing grounds. Access to good and sufficient grazing is essential, and there is no concealment that often and in many areas criticism is raised against the industry for the absence of this balance. Questions are asked about the willingness and ability of reindeer operators to adapt the reindeer to the grazing basis they actually have. The sewerage industry itself responds to this criticism by pointing to large-scale land operations carried out by the large community, and increasing the presence of predators as major threats to the industry, and as the main causes of demarcated animals, depopulated pastures and large losses. Thus, the imbalance between reindeer and grazing grounds in several areas of the country has been and is the basis for conflicts between reindeer and the rest of the population, i.e. the major community. My hope is that new reindeer management law can help to resolve these conflicts in a good way, but if we are to succeed in doing so, there must be a willingness to cooperate – cooperation between reindeer operators and non-reindeer operators, and also cooperation within the industry. If the industry is to become economically, ecologically and culturally sustainable, we need to achieve a clean-up operation where individual practitioners achieve better profitability and better results. It will only take place by adjusting the animal number to the grazing basis. The industry may not be aware of the fact that in some districts there has been a greater payment of compensation for the loss of reindeer on pasturage than is achieved in the settlement of submitted slaughter. So it could be tempting to go into the details of the law. There's a lot of complicated things, and I'm very happy that we're now getting up the side as a central concept. We get the reindeer to be held responsible in a better way. I think we're getting a solution that's going to be living with. I also think it is good to be told that I was born in West Finland. I was born in Hammerfest. I grew up with Aisaroaivi and Sennaland as my backyard. I've been picking cloudberries there for many seasons. I have seen with my own eyes what has happened in this area, West Finland, and the grazing district there – as several have mentioned. I hope we're going to get so far that we get a reindeer, a reindeer exercise that's in line with nature's assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e655	The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for a new reindeer law, and we are also involved in a minority proposal asking the Government to submit its own report on reindeer management in the spring of 2008. The old sewage treatment law dates from 1978, and it has run a lot of water in the sea since that time. The main objections to the old law was that he has an over-Norwegian approach, the law does not work satisfactorily in a reindustrial samic context. The Christian People's Party shares the belief that we should have a reindeer that is economically, ecologically and culturally resilient, and it should also be in a long-term perspective. The Christian People's Party also shares the view that the reindeer should initially not require the attention of the authorities through public regulations and decisions. The premise shall be that the private operators themselves should seek reasonable and long-term solutions. However, there are now situations that have such a strong public interest as to require action by the authorities. Cases related to the resource base may be considered. These may include important social interests of different kinds. And it could be about cases where the internal interaction in reindeer operations does not work well enough. The Christian People's Party believes that one in the bill before us has found a reasonable balance between these different main leaders. When the Christian People's Party is in favour of a new big business report on reindeer operations and asks for it, it has reason to believe that there are 15 years since the Stortinget's previous report on reindeer operations. There are a lot of relationships that have changed over these 15 years. I can mention, for example, land use interventions, land use losses, predatory losses, climate change, production variations and conversion of back-up and replacement schemes. Against this background, I hope, even though the belief may not be so strong, that the government party will support the proposal for a new deposit notice on reindeer operations. There is actually a need for such a message.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e670	Today is special for reindeer operations. The law that the industry has been waiting for a long time is being dealt with in Odelstinget. When the government joined in the autumn of 2005, a decision was taken immediately to give priority to this work. Well a year later, proposals for a new law were submitted to Stortinget. I think we can safely say that we have worked effectively on this matter, and I am happy to present this to the Stortinget. We have had many challenges in this legislative work. This applies both to the process and to the content. As is known, consultations have been conducted with the Sametinget and NRL. When we started the legislative process, the concluded consultation agreement with the Sameting was a relatively new date. This implies that there was very limited experience relating to consultations during the legislative process. In fact, new reindeer management law is the first law with a significant impact on Sami conditions that have existed since the conclusion of the consultation agreement. It was therefore necessary to keep an eye on how the procedures were to be put into practice, and this was done in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion. I believe that the arrangement that was followed fully satisfies the obligations that the Government has under ILO Convention No. 169 and the consultation agreement concluded. The proposal for a new law is important for several reasons. Firstly, we have taken a new approach to getting a reindeer farm that is sustainable in all reindeer pastures. For many years we have had problems with too high purity in parts of Finnmark, and although efforts to balance this need to be made in many areas, new reindeer management law will be a much better tool than the current law is. The industry is held accountable in a completely different way than before. We will have a better interaction and cooperation between industry and government, and I think that is necessary for us to have a system that works so that we achieve the reindeer policy objectives. Secondly, we have had far more effective instruments that can be put in place to reduce excessive redundancy, and in this respect I would like to refer to the rules on reduction of redundancy in Section 60 and the rules on penalties in Chapter 11. Today's law has shown itself to be deficient and unclear as to the possibility of sanctioning in the event of a breach of the law. The new rules are an innovation both for reindeer farming itself and for the rest of society. I would like to point out that with this law, we have got a set-up that takes more into account: increasing internal autonomy for reindeer management combined with good opportunities for the authorities to discharge their overall responsibility for the sustainability of reindeer management. Of course, in certain situations, authorities will need to intervene — both the resource base of the reindeer industry and the consideration of other social interests could require it. In some cases, a resource situation may be so difficult that special attention needs to be paid to it. For such special situations, the possibility of providing supplementary provisions on the renumbering by means of regulations is proposed. Such regulations allow for enhanced co-operation between sides, districts, authorities and research to be established. In my view, this is a much better way of dealing with the particularly difficult situations than what is provided by the law of the day. In addition, when, as provided for in the proposition, we develop objective and scientific criteria that are to be a better tool for both industry and government in the process of redefinition, the new law will provide us with a good starting point in the process of achieving sustainable clean-up. It has been suggested that the provisions of the law are based on the culture and traditions of reindeer management. In this context, it is particularly important and positive that the side, as an important element of the reindeer society, is proposed to have a central place in the law. The site will be central in several contexts, including: in the case of participation in the district board, in the preparation of the tillage rules and in the establishment of new lateral proportions. Furthermore, participation in the creation of new side parts is a priority for industry. I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee has adhered to the principles proposed by the Ministry in the new law. In this connection, I would also like to express my satisfaction that the Stortinget quickly started its examination of the bill, so that we get the law dealt with now in ours. In my view, it is important that a new law enters into force as soon as possible. The government is going to implement the law in a short time, probably already from July 1st this year. It's possible, since we've chosen a regulatory solution that requires little additional regulation. Finally, I would like to stress that although we now have a new law in place, not all aspects related to reindeer management have been assessed in this round. This may include, inter alia: reference to land use and rights of reindeer farms. As stated in the Proposition, the more fundamental rights issues will be assessed by the new Samerrechtscommittee. When the Joint Committee’s investigation is available, the conclusion here could provide the basis for further changes to the Law on Repurchase Operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e701	Many speakers here today have expressed great concern at the situation of grazing areas on parts of the Finnmark area. Governments also have earlier in Stortinget – among others. when dealing with the reindeer management agreement, and in the Stortinges Question Time – expressed similar concerns. It's quite obvious that something has to be done, and quite dramatic. It is a matter of there being as much as 30,000 pure too much in West Finland. At the same time, the industry rejects much of this issue. Then I could imagine asking the Council of State what he would actually do to reduce the reindeer in this part of Finnmark, by the number that I mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e707	As I spent much of my contribution on going through, one of the main ideas – and most importantly, after all, with the changes that are now being made – is the ability to improve resource management, especially at Finnmarkswiss, and the ability to control the reindeer when needed. We have made it clear that, on the one hand, we involve the industry, by building up numbers from below, but at the same time, the authorities are given the opportunity to go in and rule if it turns out that the sum of what is done locally does not go in proportion to the need to have a sustainable industry. So I think what's in the law is the answer to what the representative Kielland Asmyhr is asking about. In addition, as I also said in my article, we have now also arranged for us to have an even better scientific basis for the decisions on reindeer and sustainability in particularly vulnerable areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e714	The Council of State said at the end of its article that there are many pages that have not been assessed in terms of what we adopt today, and of course there are many of us in the opposition. There is also one reason why we are asking for a new big message – 15 years after the previous one. I noticed that the Council of State did not comment on it, as far as I heard, in its article. Just to take an entirely current example, we can read in the Evening Post today what a professor at the University of Oslo says. He has quoted us earlier in the debate, but in addition to what the representative Kielland Asmyhr referred to, the same professor says that Finnmarkswirdda should be afraid, the reindeer must be cut down for 50-100 years. It's pretty dramatic things, and I could have thought of challenging the Council of State to comment on this. But more importantly, isn't not all of these things, this uncertainty, to underline the need for a new big message?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e721	There were two ways I could tackle the challenges associated with these issues when we started in government in 2005. One was to start a long-term work, for example. a message, which had ended up in some objectives. The other was to start a concrete work where one got things in place. After relatively many years of experimentation, but no concrete results in terms of concrete changes in the right direction of reindeer management policy, I thought that the important thing now was to bring about concrete changes in the form of law that contribute to proper development. We've done that, and it's going to take Odelstingen after all the sun tags here today. That's good. When it comes to the question of your own big message, I just have to thank you for your trust. After some parties here in Stortinget have been in the government itself and have not provided a big message about the reindeer operation, I think it is a considerable trust that is given to me and this government when it is asked to send us a big message on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e728	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e733	Several of the speakers today have referred to the question of the reindeer number, and I will also come into my article. Today we can read a newspaper headline that a professor at the University of Oslo believes that full stop in the reindeer operation at Finnmarksvidda for 50-100 years is necessary to save the vastness of an ecological disaster. Winter bets in the interior of Finnmark are largely destroyed. The most hard hit areas have become desert. The reindeer is eaten or trodden down by the reindeer, as it is said. He points out that it can take up to 50 years before the reinlave is back. That's what the professor says. I'm not going to say that this assessment is correct, but it's raised beyond any doubt that new, effective grips are required to keep the reindeer down to a sustainable level. Some of the main changes in the reindeer management law that we are dealing with today are related to resource management. State authorities have a responsibility for maintaining the reindeer industry at a sustainable level. At the same time, the reindeer industry itself has the most fundamental interest in the good management of resources in the industry. The new law therefore facilitates the industry itself to take greater responsibility for the further development of long-term and sustainable reindeer management. Purity must develop within the resilience of nature in order to allow new generations to gain income and ensure the industry's future recruitment. That's what's crucial, and that's what's most important in the new reindeer law, as I see it. The merger has stated that the reindeer management tests themselves need to be more able to regulate internal conditions and organise day-to-day operations in line with reindeer management practices, traditions and legal perceptions. Today's legislation is felt to be for Norwegian, and it does not work well enough in a reindeer-samic context. A key feature of the new law is that Sami culture and tradition should have a much greater impact on the regulatory structures than on the old law. The industry is given greater autonomy than it had before. The grazing basis of the page shall henceforth be the basis for the renumbering. The centre party believes that this will facilitate acceptance in order to implement an adaptation of the scale to ensure long-term and sustainable reindeer management. Purity has good prerequisites for contributing to the assessments of the extent of the gravitational pressure a region actually tolerates in a long-term perspective. A prerequisite for this to result in a grid balanced with the resource base is that, to the extent necessary, boundaries have been established between grazing areas, districts and sides, as well as grazing times. Where such framework conditions are laid down, there are no significant problems with the reindeer number. We can see that, among other things. in other parts of the country where reindeer management is more sustainable, including: in the area I come from in the country, North Trøndelag, and Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e752	I'm afraid the intentions of today's reindeer law will not be achieved. Today, the purity of West Finland is too high, and far more drastic measures need to be taken than is envisaged in this proposition. The current situation suggests that there are probably over 30,000 animals too much in West Finland. It should be reasonably easy to understand that the industry itself is not the right one to determine the number of animals. It can be mentioned that in many cases the slaughter weight of an annual earthquake in East Finland is as high as that of a semi-annual in West Finland. Animal trachea occurs every day, and ecology is very far from being in balance. We can flip it on our heads. What would the situation in the fisheries be if the fishermen were to determine quota withdrawals themselves? There is a reason and experience that marine scientists are used as an objective body. Such an objective body should also be in place with regard to the reindeer management, if the Government wishes what it says about a sustainable nutrition that preserves ecology and prevents animal tragedy. One should, especially in West Finland, transfer today's nomadic operation to a stationary operation. Today's nomadic operation reduces the slaughter weight, and there will be much higher operational costs. It is resource-intensive for both animals and industry to move 15 to 20 miles twice a year. It can be mentioned that the industry itself claims that nomadic operations require approx. 2 000 animals in order for a family to be able to cope well. For stationary operation less than half is required. When the number of animals is the main problem, it should be made clear that measures implemented in both Sweden and Finland with stationary operations also need to be implemented in Norway. So we know that it leads to a further work compared to feeding winter time. But if that's the price to pay, it's much better to feed some winter time than to change the western range of a mountain desert that hardly anyone can live on. It's a very important thing we have in front of us today. It is such that for a number of years, the Storting has decided on the number of animals to be in Finnmark. It's never been followed up. Let's hope that there's more will to follow up this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e767	Finally, in the debate, I would like to express my satisfaction that there is a broad consensus here in Odelstingen on the reindeer law that now appears to be being passed. The Progress Party has a somewhat different approach than the other parties, but I think it's very good that there is otherwise a great deal of agreement on the legislative proposal that we are now adopting. I believe that the law will be a proper tool for the industry and the administrative authorities, so that an industry can be developed that fully builds on the objectives of the Government for an ecological and economically sustainable reindeer industry. Only two more comments. The opposition proposes to oblige the Government to present a major report on reindeer management by spring 2008. It is not supported by the government fraction. We've got the Finnmarks Act in place. Now we're getting a new reindeer law. The Joint Committee is in the process of exercising Sámi rights to grazing and water also outside Finnmark. We think we need to get this investigation on the table and deal with it. In that case, it may be appropriate, in my view, to consider whether a grubbing-up notification should be prepared, not now. The second point I would like to make is section 2, which concerns the so-called Trollheimsslaw, the law that allows Sami reindeer operations based on voluntary grazing agreements in Trollheimen. Here a change is made to the heading by the inclusion of the term ‘and surrounding’, since there is a more comprehensive description of the actual conditions. It has always been a prerequisite for regulated domestic operations in Trollheimen that there was a basis for agreement for winter grazing outside Trollheimen, therefore this addition. There is no signal in this about the geographical expansion of the reindeer operation currently operated in Trollheimen with the adjacent winter grazing area. As rapporteur-in-Office, I would also like to thank the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for a thorough and thorough debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e780	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 557]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e788	The odelsting is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e796	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and of the Right-wing Group, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/EF Group 7 by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e3867	The President will first vote alternately between Chapter 1, Section 1, second paragraph, No. 1 and Chapter 4, Section 30, first paragraph and the second subparagraph, first sentence, and Proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 30 shall be replaced by the following: once the statutes provide for the annual meeting, the annual surplus which may be distributed under the third paragraph of Section 27 shall be used, in whole or in part, for the remuneration of interest on shares and members’ capital accounts.§ 30, second subparagraph, first sentence, shall be replaced by the following: 1 shall be deleted.’;» [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e3891	The remainder of Chapter 1, Chapter 2 and Chapter 3, Sections 14 to 19, are then voted over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e3901	Alternatively, the first and second paragraphs of Section 3 of Chapter 20 of the adjustment and proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 20, first and second paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following: Membership of a cooperative undertaking may be transferred to a new member unless otherwise provided in the statutes. [[1]] Acquisitions of membership shall notify the transfer to the undertaking. [[2]] Where the transfer of membership is subject to the consent of the Management Board, the Executive Director or any other person having such authority or provided for in the Statute for the transferee to have certain characteristics, the transferee shall be notified of the decision as soon as possible.’;» The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e3922	Alternatively, the fourth paragraph of Section 3 of Section 22 of Chapter 3 of the adjustment and proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 22 shall be replaced by the following: the statutes may provide that a member who withdraws shall be entitled to receive a share of the net worth of the undertaking.’;» [[4]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e3939	The remainder of chapters 3 and 4, Chapter 5 and Chapter 6, Sections 64 to 68 are then voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e3950	There is then an alternative between chapter 6 § 69 of the adjustment and proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 69 shall be deleted.’; The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e3967	It is then voted over the rest of Chapter 6, as well as Chapter 7 to Chapter 10, Section 135, third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e3977	The President will now alternately vote between Chapter 10, Section 135, fourth paragraph, first sentence, and Proposal No. 4 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Article 135 shall be replaced by the following: the remaining funds shall be used for non-profit purposes.’; [[4]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e3994	It is then voted over the rest of Chapter 10, and Chapters 11 to 14 as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e4004	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e4014	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e4096	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e4106	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e4114	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 2-4, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own forecast of reindeer activity by spring 2008.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e5438	The President will vote on Chapter 1, Section 1, third paragraph. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e5451	The President will now alternately vote on Chapter 6, Section 42, third paragraph, and Proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 42, third paragraph, and the new fourth paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The division of districts shall not prevent cooperation between reindeer operators across district boundaries, unless such cooperation affects the rights of other reindeer operators. Furthermore, the division of districts does not prevent the use of pastures in other districts where this results from a specific legal basis. A specific legal basis shall mean a enforceable judgment or agreement covering all the siida concerned. The Ministry shall determine the maximum number of pure pastures for each single grazing district. The district board divides the district number between each Siida.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e5470	The remainder of Chapter 1, Chapters 2 to 5, the remainder of Chapter 6, and Chapters 7 to 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e5480	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e5490	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-lower.ana.ud1148e5501	There is no record.
