ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e125	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug and Eirin Kristin Sund, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: From the Workers' Party Group on Welfare Permit of the Representative Torfinn Opheim from 11 June onwardsFrom the representative Henning Skumsvoll on leave from 12 June to 15 June in order to attend the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Warsaw These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for West Agder County of Kjell Ivar Larsen there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget from 12 June until 15 June under the permission of the representative Henning Skumsvoll, for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Rogaland County of Unn Therese O. Sørensen currently holds maternity leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative Torfinn Opheim from 11 June and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Western Agder State: Ivar Hognestad For the county of Rogaland: Espen Torsteinsbø Hansen
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e180	Espen Torsteinsbø Hansen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e186	The President will propose the election of two Presidents for the Storting meeting today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e196	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e199	On behalf of the representatives of Vigdis Giltun, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and the undersigned, I propose public quality indicators for Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e204	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e208	On behalf of the representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Dagfinn Høybräten and myself, I have the pleasure of proposing to introduce a guarantee of dignity in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e213	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e227	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e238	The 2006 credit message provides a broad presentation of our country's financial stability. Particular attention is paid to information on financial institutions and developments in the financial market. This is also one of the chapters of the message that has captured the greatest interest in the Financial Committee. We can say that the financial institutions have had good results in recent years. In general, they have had better results in 2006 than in the previous year, which was also a good year. The responsible capital of the financial institutions and their ability to bear risks are satisfactory. However, the growth of loans from banks has led to a reduction in the core capital coverage. I want to point out a central moment: the Norwegian loan market is changing. The domestic credit growth of the audience has increased substantially in the last three years. In 2006, the corresponding figure was 14.6 p.m., while in 2003 the corresponding figure was 6.8 p.m. Moreover, it is a fact that the growth of household debt has been higher than the growth of disposable income since 1999. Noregs Bank assumes that the debt burden may also increase in time. There is an increase in purchasing power in many occupations. Nevertheless, we experience falling savings in Norwegian households. The savings were negative in the second half of last year. This is a broad majority of the financial committee's concerns. On the other hand, the progress party does not share this view. In addition, the majority of the Committee notes that housing loans are now 51 pst. of total lending from the banks. The debt in Norwegian households is almost twice the disposable income, and the debt ratio is higher than anything else. It is striking that the Progress Party does not care about the development of consumer debt. The party argues that consumers themselves know best how much their economy is tolerating. But experience has taught us that the image is more complex. It has simply happened before some borrowers have overestimated their own economy. History has also taught us that not all financial industry representatives are held back enough to grant loans. The effects of such actions can be dramatic and long-term for consumers who become victims. Therefore, this situation must be of interest to those working on fiscal policy. In addition, financial industry bears a heavy responsibility for providing consumers with complete and relevant information before signing loan documents. The exercise of monetary policy is one of the main chapters of the 2006 Credit Statement. There is no doubt that this theme has had the most focus in the Financial Committee. It was also expressed during the wide-ranging hearing held by the Committee with the Governor of the Bank of Gedrem. A central premise for the exercise of monetary policy is the regulation in this area, which was adopted on 29 March 2001. The regulation states that monetary policy should aim at stability in the national and international value of the Norwegian krona. In addition, it shall contribute to stable expectations of the development of exchange rates. Furthermore, monetary policy shall support fiscal policy by helping to stabilise the development of production and employment. A key point is that monetary policy should be directed towards achieving low and stable inflation. The operational objective of monetary policy is an annual growth in consumer prices, which over time is close to 2.5 pst. The government's emphasis is on forward-looking monetary policy. The 2006 Credit Communication states that Norway’s Bank sets the interest rate for stabilising inflation near the medium-term target. In the exercise of monetary policy in 2006, the Governing Council of Norway’s Bank has taken steps to bring inflation up to the objective of stabilising the development of production and employment. In the Financial Committee, a large number of speakers say that the different parts of economic policy are interrelated. It is also pointed out that the arrangements for fiscal policy or budgetary policy will have a great deal to say on monetary policy. The progress game is clearly distanced from this perception, now as before. A central theme of the political debate is the amount of petroleum revenues to be used. During the hearings of the Finance Committee, this became a major issue. The central bank manager was challenged as to what consequences it would have for our economy if it increased the use of petroleum revenues. Central Bank Governor Gendrem spoke out, among others\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is such that increased use of oil revenues in isolation will lead to an increase in interest rates compared to the one that would otherwise have been due for a period of time. But at the same time, this increase in interest rates will lead to a higher and stronger krone price – i.e. via a higher interest rate, a narrower krone price will gradually contribute to a weakening of competitive business and a reduction in employment in competitive business.’ The central bank manager's vision is formulated crystal clear. If an e.g. Injecting several tens of billions of dollars more into the Norwegian economy than has been done will have a very large impact. Export-right industries and other parts of the competitive economy will suffer greatly. Workspaces will be lost. Local communities can be completely depleted, at least for a while. This is what will be the consequence of the policy of the Progress Party. The game has repeatedly suggested using tens of billions of dollars more than the majority in Stortinget. We have a duty to point to the consequences of this policy. Populism can't just be free. I am very pleased that a broad majority in Stortinget rejects such a political course. After hearing about the 2006 Credit Notice, I have recorded that there has been some debate in the media about the matter. From the Progress Party's side has a largely abandoned discussion about the effects of its own policies. Instead, financial officer Ulf Leirstein is dealing with the negative characteristics of the Governor of the Central Bank Gedrem. I think it's a little thoughtful. The rule of action shall form the basis of the budgetary policy, which shall be set up by the Financial Committee. The progress game is -- understandably -- not behind this reasoning. Over time, the use of petroleum revenues shall correspond to the real return of the State pension fund — Foreign. In this way, future generations will also benefit from our petroleum fortune. In the light of public debate on the issues, the question of the use of the MODAG model by the Statistical Central Bureau was also a topic when the Financial Committee worked on the 2006 Credit Communication. The jumping point was whether the model is capable of assessing e.g. interest rate developments. The central bank manager pointed out that increasing the use of petroleum revenues in isolation would lead to an increase in interest rates compared to what one would have had for a period. On the statistical central agency’s assessments in the matter, the governor took the following view: ‘When more oil money is used, which the calculations carried out by the Agency in these models do not really provide a good response to the effects of, it must be borne in mind that these large economic models consist of a ragged relationship, equations, which are calculated from historical data. So they reflect the past and the contexts of the past." The message from the central bank manager Gedrem was not to be mistaken: the economic relations on which these models are based reflect the past. These models are therefore not suitable for analysing the effects of regime change in economic policy. If a person leaves what is the economic policy guidelines, the first step is to register the players in economic life. They will be occupied not only with the results for the first year, but also with the results for the following years. There is therefore every reason to believe that they will make up their minds about what will happen in budgetary policy over the years to come. Then they will act today on the basis of these new expectations. During the hearing of the Financial Committee, the Governor of the Central Bank stated the following: ‘It can’t be expected that these historical economic relations that are intertwined in a model can respond to the impact of such regime shifts in economic policy.’ In the Financial Committee, all the members of the Progress Party, apart from the members, are behind these comments and join the Governor's assessments. Fortunately, there are many signs in time that give great cause for optimism. One of our challenges is labour force restraints. This is a challenge not only for fiscal and monetary policy but also for structural policy. The majority of the financial committee realises that large joint tasks can be harmed by labour shortages. Only the Progress Party will distance itself from this perception. The Government Party will pursue a fiscal policy that helps to stabilise economic development both in the short and long term. The financial policy shall be used to smooth out the fluctuations in the economy in order to keep unemployment down. There is every reason to enjoy many of the positive features that are mentioned in detail in the 2006 Credit Statement. We had last year and still have high economic growth in our country. The employment rate has increased strongly, and the unemployment rate is at full speed downwards. For the government party, this is very central. Long-term low unemployment is a fundamental element of the economic policy to be pursued by the Government. Despite the many positive developments, I will not underestimate some of the challenges we face. I'm thinking, for example: on the growing debt of households and difficulties in providing skilled labour in certain industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e305	It is good that the case rapporteur also spends a lot of time on the Advancement Party and our input into the matter. I will be allowed to come back to something more in my post. I record that the representative is concerned with what will be the effects of his definition of what is the economic policy of the Progress Party. I find that since today's red-green government took over, interest has gone evenly and staggered upwards. Does it mean that it is only with the policy of the Progress Party that interest rates go up because of policy, while it is that when the red-green governs, interest rates only rise because it is completely natural? So you don't take any responsibility for the development of the Norwegian interest rate that you actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e312	Of course, the government party is taking responsibility for the policy we are pursuing. Interest is going up. The interest rate, or inflation, in Norway is 4.25 pst. for the moment, and it has our rising time. That's right. But it has been our intention. I'm pointing out that Norway Bank already made forecasts in the spring of 2005 about what interest rate developments would be like. The path that was then prescribed is largely followed in retrospect, unless adjustments are made. We're in a situation where our economy is going very well, and in such a situation, it's not uncommon that pure path. But interest rates in Norway are not particularly high. I point out that the interest rate on the European Central Bank is 0.25 pst. lower than ours, while interest rates in both England and the United States are higher than interest rates in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e319	The Chairman of the Financial Committee indicated that the savings rate is negative and that the debt burden on consumers is increasing. I guess it was supposed to be isolated to say that you did something to make savings among people the most should increase. But the government and government parties have, on the contrary, removed a number of opportunities that would allow for increased savings. My question to the chairperson of the Committee is: Will the government parties look at the possibility of proposing measures to increase savings, such as: by having additional tax incentives in the pension economy than is agreed upon?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e326	It's true that we had a negative savings rate in the second half of 2006. There might well be a little bit of a worry about that. But I would like to point out that in order to save, the household actually has to have an income that exceeds the necessary costs. It is necessary for them to have a saving capacity. Then it is shown that one will have tax-advanced savings schemes. Experience so far shows that they are of primary benefit to those with a very good economy, and they favour differences between employees with normal incomes and those with very high incomes. I mean, that's why they're not good enough to promote saving for most people. Then I point out that we have made a pension settlement also with the former government party that facilitates a certain tax-advanced individual pension savings from 2008. It's solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e335	Of course, there is no disagreement that interest rates were rising after the historically low interest rate we had in 2005, which is what economic trends suggest. But I'm recording that Reidar Sandal in his post says that fiscal policy is going to be used to balance fluctuations in the economy. What, then, is the background for the government to present both for 2006 and for 2007 a budget that the Ministry of Finance calls expansive? If it is that we are now in a boom, and I suppose we agree on that, you will not even out the fluctuations by giving more gas into fiscal policy and tightening up structural policy. That would be the exact opposite, that is to say, using fiscal policy to reduce the pressure on interest rates. This is where the government fails, by now leaving cyclical management entirely to the Bank of Norway. I ask Sandal to explain to me what he means when he says that fiscal policy should be used to balance the economic situation, when actually an expansive budget is made available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e342	That's not what the representative Sanner pointed out, that from the government party's point of view, we do not lead a policy of tightening up. I point out that as late as the presentation of the revised national budget, which has recently been put forward by the Financial Committee, it is proposing to spend DKK 3.2 billion less on petroleum revenues than would be the case for a follow-up to the Slavonic Code of Action. I would also like to point out that from the Government and Government Party's side, we are very concerned about finding the balance between monetary policy, which is to be exercised primarily by Norway's Bank, and the fiscal measures that we can deal with, and that we, among other things. have been made by withdrawing purchasing power into the revised national budget for this year. As low use of the rule of action as it has now been added to has never happened before in history.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e347	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e351	As always, the credit notification also provides a good overview of the financial institutions and markets for 2006. Furthermore, the credit notification also provides us with absolutely good information related to both the Credit Authority and the Bank of Norway, as well as a number of other aspects. When the rapporteur presented the proposal, he was able to be relatively objective in some of the areas. When you come to some assessments of the political content, you might disagree a little bit in this room. I'm going to come back to that. I also want to say that it is a good practice that the Financial Committee, as part of its consideration of the matter, actually consults with the Governor on monetary policy issues. This gives the Storting an opportunity to ask important questions and get the Governor's assessments, while perhaps getting a more up-to-date orientation from the Central Bank, related to information contained in the credit notification. Like last year, there is always a special area that gets focus, and that was the case rapporteur also significantly in the area. Of course, there are the issues of interest and the use of oil money. At my discretion, the majority deliberately tries to say that the difference in Norwegian policy is between them on the one hand who want to follow the rule of action and are so-called very responsible, and those on the other hand who supposedly want to spend more oil money, and then, according to the majority definition, are not responsible. I think this picture is pretty little nuanced. It is true that the Progress Party has always been against the rule of action. While we've been clear that this rule is not appropriate, all the other parties choose to swear allegiance to the rule. But the problem is that since the action rule was introduced in spring 2001, much more than 100 billion have been spent than the so-called action rule should be. So here's a majority that says one thing, and then in practice you do something completely different. In fact, in its 2007 draft government budget, the government raised to spend more money than the rule of action was supposed to provide, but in the revised state budget for the current year the Government estimates that it will now for the first time come under the 4 pst rule of action. use of oil money. This is primarily due to a much better income growth for the country. It is quite clear that the government now, with its proposals and rhetoric, is more concerned about being able to follow this rule, costing what it will cost, rather than looking at what is the sensible use of oil money in the economy. The main problem with the rule of action is that it severely limits the scope for fiscal action. One of the main weaknesses of the rule of action is that it does not relate to where, when or how oil revenues are used and that it does not distinguish between oil money used for tax relief, public real investment or public consumption. Very much of the economic debate in Norway is about how we, as a nation, should deal with oil revenues. Oil income is essentially income in line with all other income from Norwegian production. The specificity of oil revenues is the high rate of return, relative to resource use in the form of labour and capital invested. In addition, the vast majority of oil revenues are directly attributable to the State as landowners and tax collectors, and indirectly via state-owned oil companies. A responsible and long-term management of oil wealth needs to focus on maximising economic growth and thus more on converting oil revenues into real and human capital rather than financial capital. It helps very little for our coming generations that they inherit our oil wealth in the form of an oil fund, if they are at the same time eaten off with much less real and human capital. It is therefore important to distinguish between consumption and investment and purchases from abroad that do not create pressures in the Norwegian domestic economy and other purchases. At the same time, in all our alternative state budgets, the Progress Party also proposes reductions in a number of areas. This, combined with the reduction of taxes and levies and the increase of public real investment in areas where capacity is available, provides a sound economic policy. I note that we are going to get fucked because we are said to be the party that spends the most money, while at the same time we can be accused of being the party that cuts the most in some areas, where the majority disagrees with us in cutting as we propose. In the current situation, it would be sensible to use a little more funds for investment in areas where capacity is available, for example: in the construction industry. The industry itself discloses free capacity. By providing more funds for this purpose, the available capacity available in the market would be used without creating pressure in the economy. In addition, sensible investment in the road sector would improve the efficiency of business and the population and reduce the extent of damage. This would be positive for the economy. With fewer unemployed people and the need for labour access in some sectors, it would be sensible, in the view of the Progress Party, to invest in increased and faster patient treatment. This would allow workers waiting for an operation to have them carried out quickly by either public or private institutions, possibly abroad. As a result, savings had been made on public welfare schemes, while at the same time this workforce had been brought back to work more quickly. This would reduce the pressure on the economy. I also note that more and more trade union economists are in disagreement when the majority of people who have grown up are one-sidedly focused on following the rule of action. We can also show that an increasing number of representatives from the government parties and other local and regional elected representatives from the same parties are refraining from making the rule of action the only sensible thing. The Progress Party therefore clearly believes that the rule of action should have been replaced by guidelines for growth in government expenditure. So some words that I want to relate to the interest rate rule. In 2001 monetary policy inflation targets were introduced. The rapporteur also went thoroughly through what was actually contained in the regulation in his statement. The current year’s estimated price increase is so low that, in isolation, it should not suggest an increase in interest rates, as the Bank of Norway has done. Let me, among other things. refer to Professor Ragnar Nymoen, who in today's business on 31 May of this year clearly states that when the governor overestimates inflation, he at the same time sets the interest rate higher than he should. I note that the practice followed by the Bank of Norway is not in accordance with the provisions of the interest rate regulation, and I believe that the Bank of Norway must bring its practice into line with the legislation as soon as possible. If it's a problem to follow the guidelines, you better get back to the authorities and say you should actually do something about it. Finally, I have registered that the majority of the Committee has also used a lot of space for commenting on the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. Nor has the party of progress admirable all aspects of the IMF, and we have also commented on this in an annotated form. However, with regard to the majority of the IMF's demands on developing countries for liberalisation and privatisation, this fear is not shared by the Progress Party. Capitalism and the free market are undoubtedly the tool that has lifted most people out of poverty. That is why we believe that part of the requirements and recommendations made by the Monetary Fund is absolutely in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e394	In the setting, the Progress Party states that consumers themselves are best placed to assess their own economy and what loans they should raise. Consumers know best how much loans they can handle. The progress party also rests on the fact that banks have strict claims when it comes to advising consumers, for example: on the size of the loan and loan terms. No other party to the Financial Committee agrees with the assessment of the Progress Party in this matter. My question to the representative of Leirstein must therefore be: Does the Progress Party reject that it may be a problem for some consumers that, after aggressive marketing from banks or other credit institutions, they have taken up consumption loans that they have difficulty handling?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e401	It is clear that at any time there will be some people who have taken on consumption loans that they may not be able to handle. We know that. We see that there are a good number of people who have great challenges with their debt. But what the Progress Party wants to point out with this remark is that we record that in many ways the majority has a kind of scepticism for people's own choices and people's own assessments. The starting point must be that most people actually make good and reasonable judgements, also related to their economy, and then there are some who can get problems. But we must not create systems that make us all put in one booth, as if consumers are people who are unable to make reasonable and good choices for their private economy. That is why we do not have this scepticism of consumers expressed in the majority opinion. The Progress Party has faith in people and the right of each person to make his own choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e408	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e411	I would like to make a few comments on two of the key questions raised in the credit statement. One relates to the interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy, and the other relates to saving issues. I'm not going to take the debate we're going to have on Friday, today, but I still think it's appropriate to point out the change that is about to take place in the interaction between financial policy and monetary policy. In the previous four-year period, the budgets submitted were roughly neutral. In other words, they didn't work at the temperature of the economy. On the other hand, structural policy helped to give greater room for the Norwegian Bank to reduce interest rates. What we're experiencing now is that the government is using fiscal policy to increase the pressure on the economy. The revised national budget, which has now been presented, confirms that for 2007 we have received the most expansive budget presented in this period of economic recession. This means that when structural policies and fiscal policies are tightened up, the responsibility for cyclical management is left to the Bank of Norway. That is why, as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets says, it is not right to tighten up the revised national budget. Nor is it right, as the chairman of the financial committee says, to withdraw purchasing power from the revised national budget. It is right to spend slightly less oil money, but more money is spent, so that the totality is that the revised national budget helps to increase the pressure in the economy, leaving more of the responsibility for cyclical management to the Bank of Norway. After all, the action rule has been the lacmus test itself on a responsible economic policy in recent years. I believe that in today's situation there is an insufficient parameter for assessing economic policy. The rule of action is quite central as an anchoring in fiscal policy, because it gives a clear signal that we should have a steady phase-in of the increased revenue, but perhaps even more important because the rule of action limits how much of the resources of future generations we are going to use today. I am therefore very pleased that there is a broad majority in the Stortinget that adheres to the rule of action, and I also want to pay tribute to the Minister of Finance that she has now, in the revised national budget, put herself on the underside of the rule of action, but I believe that something more should have been tightened up. In today's situation, and not least in the coming years, it is the total use of money through fiscal and structural policies that together determine whether it is a responsible economic policy, and not the rule of action alone. The fact that interest rates have been rising following the record low level in 2005, is, as has been said, not disputed either, but the question of whether financial policy helps to push interest rates up or whether financial policy is being used, as the Committee's chairman was at the moment, to balance the differences in the economic cycle. I found that after the interest meeting on 30 May, the central bank manager, Jarle Bergo, said that fiscal policy has become more expansive in 2007 than previously assumed. The second question I want to comment on is related to saving. For the first time since 1986–1987, we now feel that the saving of households is negative. This means that, as a group, households finance all their housing investments and borrow in addition to financing current consumption. I'm glad that the government parties are also concerned about that development, but the question is, what then? What is the Government’s strategy to curb private consumption growth and to ensure that consumers save more than just consumers? I think it's interesting, but not particularly impressive, that it's under a finance minister from the Socialist Left Party that we're experiencing a consumption party without equal, where saving is actually negative. If we look at Norway, we have compared with other European countries, a country that saves a lot, while private savings are low. I record that the government parties, when they are going to argue against a more offensive savings policy to motivate private people to save more, here have two arguments. One is that rich saves more than those who have less money. I don't understand what's wrong with people who have a relatively liberal economy saving more. What a negative effect it has on people who have a liberal economy to spend their money on long-term savings, among other things. through pension savings? You're so busy trying to show that you're taking the rich, you're hitting ordinary people. Those who are now affected by the government cutting out individual annuities and cutting out private pension savings with tax benefits in 2007 are, of course, ordinary people with very common income. It is those who have now received NOK 10 000 to NOK 15 000 in tax incentives because they no longer receive a deduction from IPA and do away with property taxes on their individual annuities. It is not the so-called empires in Norway that suffer from this anti-sparing policy, but it is people with the usual economy. That's the one. The second is that by motivating people to save more by using tax policies, you just help to shift savings from one product to another. Then my question is, what research, what empirical research, is what you're referring to? While it may be possible to arrive at that conclusion through socio-economic theory, the question is what research evidence is available to claim that tax-stimulated savings schemes do not help people save any more. I could imagine having myself presented that list, because I haven't experienced it that far. The second question is: what is the result of saving less in Norway than in most other European countries? What is the result of the fact that countries that actually motivate both workers and others to save more through very favourable savings schemes have a greater share of private savings in GDP than we have in Norway? Yes, in fact, in Norway, private savings as a share of gross domestic product below half of what they are in Denmark are more than 50 pst. less than that in Sweden, and it accounts for about half of what it is in Germany. There are these questions government parties have to answer. One is, why are you so busy running after the rich that you hit the savings schemes of ordinary people? And what is the strategy for increasing private savings in Norway, when comments express concern about saving in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e433	The right has accused the government, and they have done so today, because we are pursuing an expansionary fiscal policy and helping to increase interest rates. In the revised configuration, the Right suggests a narrowing of 722 million. kr, and it's about, as far as I remember, 1 per million of the expenses. In a press release, the right has also elaborated what a miracle medicine this is in relation to adapting the economic situation, but also to halt the interest rate increase. Does the Right believe that this is sufficient to stop an increase in interest rates already foreseen under former Minister of Finance Per-Cristian Foss?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e440	Let me just first point out that Norway’s Bank has at least adjusted the interest rate path three times after the default in 2005. I also said in my post that the interest rate is going up in the high economic cycle we're in, it's not going to be a great fortune-telling thing to predict. But the question is: is financial and structural policy being used to increase the pressure on interest rates, or is it being tried to use fiscal and structural policies to reduce the pressure on interest rates? What has been my accusation against the Government is that you give more gas in a boom. I don't think 722 million. kr itself is sufficient to stop a rising interest rate. But I believe that a tighter fiscal policy, combined with an active policy to facilitate private savings, combined with a policy that provides for more labour, combined with a policy for modernising the public sector and more competition, will help reduce the pressure on interest rates, as opposed to a policy that helps to increase the pressure on interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e447	In the hearing that we had with the governor, the governor, possibly in response to a question from Jan Tore Sanner, said that the nominal normal interest rate would be somewhere between 5 and 6 pst. Then my question to Jan Tore Sanner is: Is Jan Tore Sanner in disagreement with the governor's valuations, that the nominal normal interest rate at a long-term level will be between 5 and 6 pst. ? The second question to Jan Tore Sanner is: we are at the top of a boom, and does Jan Tore Sanner have some very good arguments for a policy that just at the top of the economic cycle means that we should have a nominal normal interest rate that is significantly lower than the governor adds up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e456	It is not my job as a politician to question the professional assessments made by the governor, nor is it what this debate is about. What is our challenge as politicians is to look at the interaction between monetary policy and financial policy. My accusation against the Government is that the emphasis is now being shifted away from fiscal policy as an instrument also in cyclical management, to leave full responsibility to the central bank. Yes, you even contribute through the budget. I believe that the representative Heikki Holmås does not disagree with that, namely that the financial policy is an expansive contribution, yes, it even writes the ministry in the budget. So my main point is that it relates to the interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy, and not to the questioning of the professional judgement of the governor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e464	These were a lot of big words. Today's Business Day, 8 June, has a leader entitled "Higher Interest Rate". They write: ‘Right fiscal spokesman Jan Tore Sanner shall have points of decency. He is constantly trying to stick the responsibility for the nine interest increases since the 2005 Grand Prix elections on the red-green lots.’ In addition, it says: «Should we laugh? Shall we cry? Not good to say. Maybe both." The right-hand proposal for tightening up the audit is 722 million. SEK, of which 672 million. kr on behalf of agriculture. Sanner says the 722 million. kr has no effect in itself. My question is: when the dry representative, Mr Sanner, as fiscal spokesman for the Right, comes to an agreement between the talk and the words used and the measures needed to bring about a change in interest rates, see What he said?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e483	Normally, the term 'frequence' is not a parliamentary term. But it was a quote from somewhere else, says the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e486	I live well with it. I am more impressed that the representative Lundtigen uses today's business as a witness of truth. There's no daily food in this room. If the representative Lundtigen had listened to what I was actually saying, he would have gotten the impression that my point was that a reduction of 722 million. kr alone is not what determines whether financial policy contributes to reducing the pressure on interest rates. It must be seen in combination with fiscal and structural policy. It is about modernising the public sector. It's stopped. It concerns competition policy. It's over. It is about providing more labour. There the government is totally passive and indicates that the SSB has documented that without the Poles the interest would be 0.75 pst. higher. This means that we are more able to facilitate labour immigration, manage to get more from social security to work, lower taxes on lower and medium incomes and motivate us more to save, in sum, it will contribute to our contribution not to increase the pressure on interest rates but to dampen the pressure on interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e491	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e494	I just want to comment briefly on the contributions of the Progress Party at the very beginning, by pointing to one thing: it is fascinating how the Progress Party, as the only party, does not see the oil as a stock, as something we can extract once, and therefore is not to compare with other production, which can be going on and on. That position has not been taken over by the Progress Party, as opposed to the other parts of the Stortinget. I think it's worth people noticing. That they call it investment to invest money in road projects, including those road projects that have a negative socio-economic impact, I also think that it is intrusive on the part of the Progress Party, and it is not affected in the posts of the representative, Mr. Leirstein. But I want to talk about a few elements in the credit message that I think it's important to grasp. One piece, which was also covered by the rapporteur, relates to the development of debt. I have to say that I think that some people are taking too easy on the debt we've had. When both the Head of the Credit Authority and the Bank of Norway warn that we are in a situation where some people borrow a lot of money that they will not be able to handle if an interest rate increase occurs within the probability range that Norway’s Bank has, then I think it is easy for the Progress Party to shift all responsibility to the individual consumer. There's two reasons for that. One part is that by saying that it is not a social task to contribute to people raising loans that they are actually able to serve, one exercises a certain kind of irresponsibility in taking responsibility for people, and those people are often the weakest, those who also get trouble and get into trouble, and cannot handle interest. The second part is that big contractions in the individual's economy are negative for society. Big fluctuations in the amount of money people spend by borrowing too much in times of low interest rates and, I was saying, borrowing too much in times of high interest rates, also have some negative societal effects. We have everything to gain from a stable development, among other things. in housing prices. They were inside the Poles coming to Norway. If at one point we have a giant boom where we attract a lot of labour, and at another time have very high unemployment, it's very negative for ordinary people, and it's negative for labour productivity. Therefore, stable development is essential. So how we think about these things is also important. I believe that the Progress Party does not contribute well. I think it is positive that Focus Bank now sets up and introduces 15 years of fixed interest. There are some research from other parts of the world that suggests that economies, societies, with a higher proportion of fixed interest rates on mortgages – which thus represents 51 pst. of loans from banks in Norway — also with a more stable development of housing prices, and thus also with the possibility of having a more stable trend in society in general. This has to be drilled more closely, but we'll get back to that at another point in time. I'll say two words about Jan Tore Sanner and his perception of what it is that is professionalism, and what it is that is not professionalism. I find it fascinating how Jan Tore Sanner, who thought that the Right Budget, as we were treated before Christmas, and as Jan Tore Sanner at that time thought would have a positive effect, and one would manage to tighten in the first place by cutting education and assistance to other countries, now set up a new budget with a budget of 722 million. kr, where something has been taken from the farm, and there, among others. Part of the tightening has been achieved by increasing nursery prices. Everyone knows that if you increase kindergarten prices, there will be more people on the margin who can't afford to send their kids to kindergarten, and so you will also reduce the opportunities for work. Jan Tore Sanner goes out in a press release and says: Right-wing proposals will yield a lower interest rate than the red-green proposal. Then I want to ask, where is the professional coating that Jan Tore Sanner has to claim exactly this? In the last few seconds, I'm going to spend on one of the things that I think are positive about the work that has been done in the last few years in relation to the International Monetary Fund. The Financial Committee has been and visited the Monetary Fund. We have heard critical voices in part of the work of the Fund. The latest documentation that both the Government and others have provided, we follow up, and we ask the Government to follow it up. We think it can get a lot out of the world's poor country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e518	The representative Holmås started by saying that what the Progress Party had not understood was that the oil was a stock, and that it had to be treated in particular. Well, that's right. But now, the whole surplus of Statoil goes into the State pension fund – abroad. It also applies to the revenue from the extraction of oil in other countries, as well as to the excess that one has at the gas stations, both in the form of the sale of petrol and the sale of sausages in bread, Coca-Cola, etc. Does the real representative Heikki Holmås think that the revenue from the sale of Coca-Cola and sausages in bread must also enter the State pension fund – abroad, so that future generations can benefit from it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e525	I fully agree with the representative Hageseter that the way we have chosen to do this is diabolical, that we also include the revenue from the sausage sale from Statoil and put it into the State pension fund – abroad. But I want to ask the representative Gjermund Hagesetter: is it such that he believes that we should separate the sausage sale from the other parts of Statoil's business, and that it would then be good to do it the way we do, and that the Progress Party would then follow the action rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e530	I can answer that afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e535	Lars Sponheim is an expert on sausages, and he's the next replicant.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e538	That's what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is, not Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e544	In addition to a foreign budget of its own, it would of course have been tempting for a former food minister to have also had his own sausage budget in the country. But that's not what I want to ask. That's interest. We have a polemic between the position and the opposition about who's responsible for the interest rate increase. I just want to contribute to being so much sober to say that if the previous government had continued, we would also now have an interest rate trend towards a normalized level. What we are concerned about is whether economic policy also contributes to providing a political supplement to interest rates in Norway or not. You can be sure that it will, or you might be worried if that's the situation. I choose to be the last one. For example, the central bank manager says: in its presentation to the Financial Committee: ‘The interest rate has therefore also increased somewhat faster than that of the Bank of Norway in view of the most likely developments.’ It also seems to rise faster than you thought just a year ago. Then I asked the representative Holmås: "He thinks it would have been possible that we could have a weaker interest rate increase if there had been a less expansive fiscal policy, for example. for the current year and for the next year, than what we are now in?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e558	It's impossible to answer absolutely. I'm going to show the same roughness back to Lars Sponheim. I'm not going to be absolutely in saying that with another policy, it's completely unmistakable that it could lead to something else. But I would like to point out that the budget that Lars Sponheim's party has, and what Jan Tore Sanner's party has, in my opinion, has marginal differences in itself. For example, one of the reductions to Lars Sponheim's party was the removal of the money allocated to the purchase of climate allowances abroad in the budget for the autumn. I don't think the policy that left and right would lead would lead to any interest rate developments other than the one we've had. One of the things that's why we have the interest rate trend that we have is, among other things, that more people than we thought have actually come to work. And it's not supposed to say that it's a negative development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e565	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e568	With the barbecue suit debate we had a little earlier this year, I was a moment in a hurry if it was about separating grill sausages from other sausages when it was about these budgets, but it gets Hagesetter to come back to! It went well in Norway in 2006, we can read from the credit message we have for treatment. Consumer behaviour indicates that consumers also expect it to continue to go well — if not into eternity, then for a long, long time. We see this in several respects: the debt burden is increasing, the savings rate is negative for the second half of 2006, and we have seen quite an explosive growth in the consumption debt. I'm going to stay a moment with this. These are the people who have high housing debts, who also seem to take up some consumer debts, and who get worse when the interest rate will gradually increase further. These are also the same people who unfortunately seem to be borrowing with a very long repayment period. They often borrow in such a way that the first five years they only pay interest. They do not pay down anything on the loan as such. In such a situation, there is reason to be a little worried. It would have been interesting to hear what the Minister of Finance is doing in this way. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we can't actually see that there are any specific measures on the part of the Government for this group. From our point of view, we have proposed to look at one aspect of the credit notification: that in the case of consumer loans with a very high interest rate – usually with a ten-second response period to SMS – there should be a delay between the offer being made and the acceptance of the offer, in order to mitigate, if possible, too many rather difficult situations if you have a high mortgage debt and take up additional high interest rate consumption loans. In such a situation, you get a spiral where you simply don't make the financial commitments you've assumed. We have at least launched this in the setting of the credit message, but only have to realize that it has no other access. We think that's a little bit of a shame. Then I would have thought of taking up a different relationship. There's pressure in the economy. At the same time, we have 600 000 people of working age who are either in social security or have pensions. It's actually almost 25 pst. by the labour force. So it's possible to get more people to work, not least in a situation where the work force needs it, and where it might dampen the pressure in the economy. I think the Governor of the Central Bank called this relationship the 'achilles heel of the economy' in his presentation to the Financial Committee when we consulted on this communication. Immediately after that consultation, the revised national budget came. There we have to note that in terms of measures to those who specifically need assistance to get back into the labour market, Küter Regeningen. It does not cut in number of places, but cuts in crowns despite warnings from a wide range of labour market enterprises. There's a context in the policy that I don't understand. Finally, I want to pay tribute to the Government for the work they have done in connection with the World Bank and the IMF. I show you, among other things: to the conditionality conference held in the previous harvest. When we heard the Minister of Development's statement here on Friday, he was very positive about the results that now seem to be able to show in terms of the World Bank's much smaller demands in this way. The question is also whether this is subsequently transferred to the IMF. As the Minister of Finance sees from the comments of the majority, there is also an indication from the majority that perhaps the IMF should transfer some of its tasks to the World Bank and rather concentrate more on macroeconomic advice. It might have been interesting to hear what the Minister of Finance says about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e585	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e588	The 2006 credit notification provides a briefing on the situation in the Norwegian economy through general information on financial institutions and developments in the financial market while addressing financial stability both nationally and internationally. There was a high temperature in the Norwegian economy in 2006, and the situation is not different in 2007. Also internationally, there is strong economic growth, particularly in China in recent years contributing to increased demand for raw materials, which has benefited Norway from through higher prices of oil, gas and other raw materials. With regard to financial stability, Norway has particular reason to follow developments in the United States closely. The United States is one of our biggest trading partners, and has a gross total external debt equal to 80 pst. of gross domestic product. Furthermore, the US has an increasing current account deficit due to a negative trade balance. In addition, an increase in investment deficit has now been reported in the United States. These conditions may constitute a danger to stability, which must also be given greater attention in our debate here at home. This is a theme that you should go into carefully, late next year's credit notification. Many professional groups in Norway have increased purchasing power in recent years due to low inflation and good wage and income growth. I referred to many. Not everyone has it. In many cases, those groups with weak trade unions or weak political understanding have low real wages growth in today's conditions. It is a major challenge for a government that has a central brand of distribution and dissatisfaction. Nevertheless, those with a high real wage growth contribute to a large negative savings rate for households in the second half of 2006. We're in a situation of exponential indebtedness for private consumption, estimated at 12 p.m., over several years, and that's worrying. In order to borrow a lot, you have to be able to make a lot of money. It's a clear match. Those who earn the most can borrow the most. It has been right to raise interest rates in order to make it more expensive to finance private consumption and private investment. The future is far more demanding. We need to have an even closer interaction with fiscal policy in order to avoid an unfortunate increase in the krone price. But this is something far more than the size of the state budget. The facilities are very important to ensure the distribution of social groups and geographical areas and to ensure the realisation of necessary investments at the national level, so that Norway becomes cheaper to operate, and systematically contributes to the deployment of renewable energy and thus the phasing-out of non-renewable energy: oil, gas and coal. There is a need for firm political leadership in order not to have the historic stamp ‘the time of the lost chances’. As I said, it's a very demanding challenge. The opposition has no alternative economic policy despite many words. The proposals of the previous government parties are only cosmetically different from those of the government we have today, while the Progress Party is driving a car without brakes. It is very unusual in private too to have such rules. There is not a shortage of Community resources in terms of money, but there is a shortage of labour. Increasing efforts by the Government are very important to facilitate increased work efforts for people with disabilities who want to participate more, whether they are pensioners or people who otherwise depend on social assistance. There is a need to think again, in combination with incentives and restraints, which, in total, must lead to an improvement in the life situation of these people. Finally, the International Monetary Fund is built on the ideology of free movement of capital. It is a risk project that seeks to mitigate the risk, including: through the full transparency and Early Warning slogans, i.e. full transparency and early warning. Historically, we know that the alert mechanisms have been too weak to counter international negative stability situations, cf. The cracks of the 1990s on the economy of the tiger countries in Asia. Norway has a responsibility in its participation in the IMF to help dampen the unintended focus on this free flow ideology. It is therefore very positive that all parties, minus the Right and the Advance Party, say in the vote that Norway must work to prevent the IMF from using conditionality for forced privatisation and liberalisation. It is important to follow up on this point – even more important in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e614	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e617	Before this ageing period, the Senterpartie had a different view of the use of oil revenues, e.g. the use could be made of something more on road investment. When the representative Lundtägen and I were campaigning in Buskerud in 2005, there was no way there was going to be a lot of investment on the road. And then, if you go to the Center Party website today, you see that one of the main things that they're facing, and that they're attracting voters to vote on the Center Party, are better ways. Does Lundtägen agree with their own government regarding the use of oil revenues, or does Lundtägen believe that some more of the oil revenues can be used, for example. on road investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e626	As I said in my post, the situation today is far more demanding than it was a few years ago. It means, of course, that we have to balance the relationship more closely now, because it's much harder. With regard to the State budget, we must have a combination of monetary policy and fiscal policy. I said we have to have a tight fiscal policy, but in the context of tight fiscal policies, the distribution of fiscal policies needs to be much more focused than it has been. Part of the financial policy arrangements must mean that we need to slow down the growth of operating expenditure and increase the growth of investment at the national level in order to be able to operate Norway cheaper and then to phase out non-renewable energy in favour of renewable energy. So we have to keep track of where we want to be, even in this unique and really positive time that we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e635	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e638	I'm going to use my 5 minutes, or some of them, to come up with some reflections with a slightly larger bird's eye view than maybe the debate has been shaped up to now. I'm doing some reflections about the good times in Norway, and what the Norwegian economy is able to withstand from the heat, so to speak, without going more wrong than what it does. The finance minister and I were put together in the finance committee about 10 years ago, and I'm sure that if someone had then described the state we have in the Norwegian economy now, with such low unemployment, more job vacancies than there are job seekers, low price increases, and in that way, we have to say, low interest rates, compared to what has been historical levels, it would have been said that it was almost impossible to achieve. Something would have boiled in the economy. But it's going incredibly well, and it looks like something has happened in the Norwegian economy over the last 10–15 years, which makes the capacity limits of the economy considerably more flexible and thus tolerates such good times. In this situation, I want to draw out some things that I think we need to have with us. One is that during these years we have developed a much more open economy — a global economy — and a freer trade, which is obviously an important contribution to the Norwegian economy’s ability to go as well as it does now. I think that must be an important aproposal to the many who have opposed that we should have a more open and more functioning world economy. It is an important contribution to our having good times, and it must also be an important reminder to all of us of the need to put in place new WTO rules, which can increase this flexibility. The second is the EEA Agreement. I am absolutely sure that today we could not have managed to combine so many good sizes in the Norwegian economy without a functioning EEA agreement. Not least, enlargement of the EEA has given us access to skilled labour from our neighbourhoods. These are even in the situation that they deliver their workforce – I am thinking in particular of the labour force from Poland – to Norway, sending demand back to Poland. There must be an adventure situation for Norway when we need capacity utilisation without putting more pressure into the economy. I also think that's a proposition for all of us. Now, I guess it's like per. definition is no longer an EEA opponent in this hall, as I understand it. But it also tells us that we should be concerned about how, in the future, we can achieve sensible labour immigration under Norwegian conditions that enable us to maintain this flexibility in the economy. In this perspective, I want to bring forward the tax changes we have had in the last 10–15 years. Two forms of taxation have contributed to lower rates and a broader tax base. It has obviously led to an increase in labour supply in the economy. Several people want to provide labour because marginal rates have fallen, and investments have become healthier because they are not tax-motivated but economically motivated. In particular, the conversion of VAT has given us a broader income base in terms of taxation of consumption. We should remember that the international trend in taxation is towards lower taxes on labour and more taxes on consumption. It is a development that is well adapted to the needs of Norway in the future. I also think it is important to find that my clear experience in this bird’s eye view of the development of the Norwegian economy, which enables us to handle good times as well as we are now doing, is that economists have become more competent in managing economic policy now than they were 10-15 years ago. It probably has something to do with the conversion of monetary policy and the role of the Bank of Norway. I think that's an important reason why we're doing so well. I also think it has something to do with the many confused rules of action. We should remember that it was really a methadone for a political environment and an economy that was getting drunk on oil. That's the way it's been working, but we're probably in a certain danger that we might well become addicted, in as good times as we have now, by this rule of action and this methadone, that we quickly become slaves of the rule of action in a situation where we have to be busy spending even less money. Finally, I would like to present some challenges to the Minister of Finance, whether she will respond to them in her speech or later in the debate. This concerns the Minister of Finance's statement here in Stortinget a few weeks ago that she was not so much concerned about the lack of saving. Now her committee leader in Stortinget has expressed a great deal of concern about the lack of saving in the economy. I think the finance minister has to use the occasion today to elaborate on the views she made in Stortinget that she was not so concerned about the lack of saving. I hope the Minister of Finance has the opportunity to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e659	I am pleased that we have representatives like Sponheim, who look up and see Norwegian economy in a slightly larger picture. I totally agree with him. I believe that the theory of a more open economy through the EEA agreement – as we get people from outside who come, work and take the money and spend it elsewhere – has turned out well for the Norwegian economy. But we have to have a little clarification round. In a previous line change, I understood the representative Sponheim there that he is worried that we have a political supplement in interest rate developments in Norway after the red-green government took over, while I realized that he was characterizing e.g. Jan Tore Sanner from the Right as more sure that we have a political supplement. At the same time, we know that there's a pretty big gap from about zero in the contraction of the Christian People's Party, 250 million. kr i minus from the left, 700 million. from the Right, and the Advance Party is well worth about DKK 3.5 billion, so that the tension is quite large on the bourgeois side when the criticism now hails against the Government. I just want to clear up: is it so to understand that the representative Sponheim is worried and not hesitant?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e666	I'm worried. I'm not sure I'm sure of it. I am an economist enough to say that there is no professional basis for being non-slip. But there's something to be led was in such a situation. In his opinion, the central bank manager says: ‘Our assessment now is that the level of capacity utilisation is a few per cent higher than that which can be maintained over time.’ We need a soft landing. It is a concern that the government side should also share. When the left has chosen to spend a little less money also in the revised, it's not because we think it's going to give an insular rate of interest. It is to give a clear signal to the Government that if they want to go from a weakly expansive budget to a more neutral and tighter budget for 2008 – in and of course for the rest of this year – they will be able to get wider support for it than only from their own government parties. The interest rate is going to be high enough through the normalization and what's happening outside the Norwegian economy, without us needing a red-green interest rate supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e676	I don't think Lars Sponheim should underestimate the positive side either because it's going as well as it does. Professor Knut Røed, to whom we were listening, says that we now have an opportunity to get more of the people we thought were permanently out of work, back into work. So this is how we increase the total production in Norway and the possibilities we have in the long term. This is something completely new. For every cyclical bottom we've been in – there's been a group of people who've been outlawed – we've had a steady increase. It's positive. I just want to draw out one thing that maybe is the back of the medal that Lars Sponheim draws up, compared to the fact that we're doing so well with an open economy. It is that we have received a much better job offer. This means that there has been a shift in the balance between labour and capital. Two things happen. One is that the capital owners run away with a larger share of the dividends. The second is that the differences in the last 20 years up to 2005 have increased. Does Lars Sponheim not agree that this is a negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e683	I have no problem thinking that it is okay that those who bet and succeed do well. But it's important that we have a distribution policy and a distribution of power in a society that makes everyone get involved in good times. I'm probably not so busy fighting wealth as the representative Holmås is, but I'm very busy fighting poverty. For me, there is no obvious link between the two sizes, other than in symbol policy. When we talk about transparency in the economy and the importance it has for Norway, which I expressed in my post, I like to share with the representative Holmås the concern that an open economy, where capital is international and risks gliding all the way, will provide a development in many other countries where one does not have the opportunity to achieve such a good distribution as here with us. The major problem now is that there is a global economy that is unbalanced with global policy in terms of the ability to achieve good distribution. It is a challenge that is currently unresolved and to which it is important to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e690	This gives me an opportunity to follow up on exactly what's going on, because I feel that there's a slight contrast between two of the sentences of Lars Sponheim. On the one hand, he says that it is good that we have achieved a good policy of distribution in Norway. On the other hand, he says that he sees that the sprinkling of the relationship between labour and capital that is in a good number of other countries makes those who are unable to pursue the same good distribution policy as we have here in Norway. So Lars Sponheim says what is a mantra from the former members of the government, that they are very busy fighting poverty. But my question to Lars Sponheim is, when it's like that in the last few years, when you see that the 10 pst. The wealthiest has got more of the growth, they've got 70 billion more of the social shock than their 10 pst. If they had stood at the same percentage as ten years ago – and this has actually been paid for with less growth for all the other groups – does not Lars Sponheim also see that if the other groups had had DKK 5.7 billion each extra, would it give a better chance to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e697	There are great times in Norway. Businesses are doing very well – fortunately – and this allows them to add many people who have not had a job before. It has to be fundamentally good. But we can't help but realize that the companies that are able to add more, and do it well, they have to have some owners, and they do it well in these times too – they do it very well. Then you can count on it and say that they get a relatively greater share of the added values created than what the workforce does. That's probably a right development. Would I wish the world had been completely different? There could have been an interesting reflection on this issue – but that's what it is. If we are to have good businesses in Norway, we must have company winners in Norway. And if they want to be business owners in Norway, they have to be allowed to do well. I can't make it the big problem, as long as we have resources and opportunities to do something for the very poor. I see no clear connection between throwing out some mercedeser from the Holmenkol lock and doing something very good for those who need it most in other parts of this city – in the Groruddalen or where it should be. But we can all redeploy into the economy, which does something for the poorest. That's what's central – but that's not SV's symbol, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e704	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e707	Let me comment on some of the things that have been going on in the debate, which is largely a debate on the general economic situation. It's not that unnatural when we're dealing with the Credit Message. Firstly, I believe that the Progress Party has misunderstood what the rule of action really is. When you talk about the 4 pst. path, it's primarily about how to manage a repositioning from a non-renewable resource to a financial asset in view of the next generation. The 4 pst. hasn't fallen from heaven, it's based on what's expected real returns. But it's not that you have to follow it slavely. On the contrary, you have to take it into account over time, and then you have to calculate what is the situation in the Norwegian economy, what is the cyclical situation, and then figure out the right level to phase oil money into the economy, which many people have experienced. Then it is of course that when there is no capacity, i.e. unemployment can be higher than 4 pst, and there is a lack of capacity, but below. And that's what we're doing for the first time -- 3.8 pst. Then I have to say I am a little surprised that the Progress Party is setting up its economic policy according to what the construction industry must say they have of free capacity, for all the other studies we have, show that there is a shortage of people to do construction work. In almost any municipality, you can ask whether there are now many who bid to build a kindergarten – as they do with both hands around the municipalities – and the answer is no, it is not. The costs go up, there are very few who compete for the major construction tasks that are. So I'm going to suggest you use e.g. Norway’s Bank’s own survey for enterprises when assessing the capacity of the economy. With regard to monetary policy, too, I think the Progress Party seems to see Norway's Bank as a kind of machine that you put 2.5 pst. inflation targets are introduced, and then an interest rate measure is set. There is no emphasis on what is also part of the instruction, namely that one should take account of production and employment. I think this discussion about investment and operation is quite interesting. It is quite clear that there are people who are attracted to these investments that stand as monuments to the next generation. But if you take from what really matters how to manage wealth in Norway, a lot of what we do in relation to people and knowledge would be the most important thing we invested in. The fact that any road project is going to be a more important investment for future generations than an increase in child protection or more hours in school, that's a very strange logic. In the case of Right Jan Tore Sanner, I find it fascinating to see with which cigarette conduct Right participates in the debate. It is not the case that the Right is putting forward a tightening of fiscal policies that would mean that, with any honesty, a level of interest could be invoked which would automatically be lower. Also the Right adds up to spending less oil money, like the Government, but more money, like the Government. So here we are far in the field of symbolism. And what the Right proposes for the kindergarten sector, brings us the opposite of creating more capacity. So a couple of things about something else that the credit message is also about. I believe that there is reason – there are several people who have been involved – to be very aware of the development of debt in households – especially among the youngest, and especially among those who are now borrowing at 100 pst. and with a long leave of absence. Clearly, there is a vulnerable group in terms of interest rate increases. I am pleased that the Banking Authority reports that they want to take a closer look at bank lending practices. Then I am also pleased with the interest that is surrounding the IMF and the further development of the IMF, which is reflected in the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e735	I am surprised when the Minister of Finance so categorically says that there is no capacity in the construction industry. You make a cardinal mistake in many ways, because you're simply saying that you look at the industry together. But there's a difference between construction and construction. I am recording that the Minister of Finance believes it is good to hear what the Norwegian Bank has about data on this industry. The Progress Party is going to have a meeting with the industry, and we're going to know exactly what the situation is. The plant bit of this industry has free capacity, it can only be established. But what I wanted to get back to was with the Bank of Norway. The Progress Party believes that the main board of the Bank of Norway overestimates inflation. Thus, the interest rate is set higher than that which would be charged under the interest rate regulation. Does not the Minister of Finance find it problematic to have a situation where the Bank of Norway exaggerates what inflation is actually going to be, to set interest rates higher than you should? Here is a rule to be followed. I would like the Minister of Finance to consider how this is actually being followed up, and whether she does not see it as problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e742	I have nothing against, and I would recommend everyone, to talk to both the construction industry and all sorts of other industries. But they have as job to get the best possible conditions for themselves. So if you use the construction industry and all the other industries as a fait accompli for what is sensible socio-economic policy and sensible general policy, then I'll warn you a little bit. I would at least encourage the Progress Party to use some more sources. It is the plant industry's job to say that they have free capacity. Then they make the most money. It's that simple. Then to the interest rate fixing and the Bank of Norway. I believe that the Progress Party has a far too narrow view of what is actually the instructions to the Bank of Norway. They shall also take account of production and employment, and it is not now that inflation has been low because of bad times. On the contrary, we are in a special international economic situation that allows us to import very low price increases. So I believe that the way Norway's Bank manages its mandate is in full compliance with the instructions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e749	For the first time since 1986/1987, the saving of households is negative, i.e. households as a group finance their housing purchases and finance their loans in addition to consumption. I record that the Minister of Finance says in his post that she is concerned. But that the Minister of Finance is worried, doesn't impress you very much. The question is what she's doing. What will the Minister of Finance do to motivate people to save more? We've been through that discussion repeatedly. The government's contribution has been to cut out private savings schemes, and it has been justified that the Minister of Finance claims that tax relief only contributes to people moving savings from one product to another product. Then I would like to know: What empirical studies is the Minister of Finance referring to in order to substantiate his claims that tax-based savings schemes do not help to increase savings?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e756	The experience we have from the type of instruments in the Norwegian economy suggests that we do not encourage increased savings in general if we introduce a system of particularly favourable tax incentives, but that we encourage people who in any case save, to move money from one account to another. I would like to come back to the representative, Mr Sanner, with a detailed, professional reason for this in a written reply if he so wishes. It's hard to be bombastic, as the representative Sanner is, on this. I have the feeling that what the representative is primarily looking for is tax exemptions or tax incentives, and then you ask questions afterwards. In Norway's Bank's Financial Stability report, which came a week ago, savings are a little bit up again, even though we have had many laps here in the Stortinge on the IPA scheme, which is not valid for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e763	In the past, the Minister of Finance has been concerned that those who lose the most at an ever higher interest rate are those who have the smallest margins — those who may live at the limit of what they tolerate in terms of increased interest rates. Then we see that it's a strong consumption loan growth, and that with an interest rate that's up to two to three times the mortgage rate. Will the Minister of Finance look at some means to try to dampen that kind of loan, for example. by attenuating – what should we say – the aggressiveness of those offering such loans, by allowing for a certain period of time from a loan of the nature offered to be accepted?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e768	This is a topic that I've been busy on, which we've been monitoring all along, and where we've implemented measures. For example, we have implemented that we need an opportunity to find out what the real interest rate is and that it needs to be reported by those who are now offering consumer loans. Because we know that many of those who take up consumer loans don't sit down and calculate the sum of fees and interest and how expensive the money really is. Some of the examples we see are that people can turn on a consumer loan offer on a text message at a barrack late in the evening – it is customers who have previously registered and been tested as customers, and who can then be filled in. This is also a practice to be considered. I share the concern of the representative Syversen that when consumption is so high among so many, there are people who can be tempted to consume significantly higher than they really have the financial capacity to bear, and that it is important that they are not particularly exposed to aggressive marketing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e775	At the hearing of the Financial Committee, the Governor of the Central Bank said: ‘Our assessment now is that the level of capacity utilisation is a few per cent higher than that which can be maintained over time.’ My first question will be whether the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance agree with such an assessment. If that is the case, we need to see how the capacity can be reduced to maintain at a high level over time. The old rules we've learned from economic policy are that there are three pillars that have to do this: it's the social partners through moderate wage settlement, it's the politicians through fiscal policy, and it's not doing the two jobs, it's the head of the central bank sitting there with the interest rate button and is ready to use it at any time. It should be our job to avoid that it must be used too hard. The paychecks are now done. They've stayed within the frame, maybe with a little plus back, but a lot suggests that the local slides might get too big. And then the whole pressure is put on fiscal policy. Is the Minister of Finance ready to use fiscal policy in the 2008 budget to take down the necessary capacity and make the soft landing that is now needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e787	Already in the revised 2007 national budget, we are making changes to economic policy in the light of what is now the situation. That's why we've gone to 3.8 pst. Instead of 4 pst., which was the basis for 2007. It's mainly because 2006 was a better year than we thought, and because of course we're following this development very closely, which Lars Sponheim is in. We share the views of the Bank of Norway on capacity utilisation. But what has surprised us through many rounds during this boom is that the capacity limit has gone beyond what we would initially believe. This means that we are much more integrated into an international economy and labour market than we previously believed, and that we have managed to gain free capacity. We know that that limit goes somewhere, but we're not quite sure where it is. That's the balance we have to go, because this is not an area for gambling, but an area to be able to figure out how to land softly and keep low unemployment as long as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e794	During the press conference on the management of the State pension fund, the Council of State made it a major point that a higher share of shares in the State pension fund – Foreign will in the long run result in the 4 pst of the action rule. will constitute more money, because the return on shares has never been historically higher. So she added: this will mean that we can spend more money on welfare. If the Council of State's reasoning is accepted, namely that the rate of return will be higher, and that this will allow more use of money on welfare, why does the Council of State choose to use less than the rule of action already in the revised budget of the year? Why does even higher returns mean that we can spend more money on welfare in the future, when we can't even use the returns that the rule of action gives today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e799	I believe that the Progress Party has misunderstood what the rule of action really is. The rule of action is to calculate an expected real return on the State pension fund — it is calculated at 4 pst. – and that you stick to it over time. That doesn't mean that 4 pst. is phased out from year to year, because the rule of action also implies taking into account the capacity and situation of the Norwegian economy for how much one varies from 4 pst. This means that when it's a boom, as it is now, it's not unnatural that we – for the first time – are below 4 pst. But that also means that it was completely responsible for a low economic downturn, as it has been in periods that we have been above 4 pst., to use something more.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e804	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e808	When we now deal with the Credit Message 2006, there are several things to rejoice about, including: that financial institutions have had good results in the year that has passed. The prospects for financial stability are satisfactory, although there are features in the economic development we should follow closely. This is not least the increasing indebtedness of households combined with the increasing use of free-of-charge loans and longer-term loans, which have been covered by several. In my opinion, there has to be a greater focus on banks' practices in measuring mortgages. Banks must have a commitment in relation to some information on the consequences of interest rate increases. I myself come from an area of high housing prices and have seen the challenges that this presents for housing start-ups, not least young people in the start-up phase. Another aspect we need to see in this context is that it is those households with the highest indebtedness that have the least share of the financial assets, i.e. for these, it does not help to ensure that households together have high financial assets. Thus, those with the highest indebtedness have nothing to wear if there are payment challenges. I see from the press release of Røre's fiscal spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, in connection with the release of the revised – and I must stress that I have read it carefully – that he states that it is the expansive budget of the red-green government that is the cause of interest rate increases. At the same time, he wants the Right and the Bondevik II government to have the credit for the success of the economy. Most people know, and the representative Jan Tore Sanner knows, that these things are hanging out. In politics, memory may be strangely short for some politicians. When they come from position to opposition, memory gets even shorter. There's a reason to refresh your right memory. When Per-Kristian Foss was in charge of the Ministry of Finance, Norway’s Bank said in March 2005 that the interest rate would gradually increase from the level of 1 pst at that time. to 4.2 pst. in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 4,8 pst. in the fourth quarter of 2008. If we take this into account, it was at least over 80 pst. of the total interest rate increase the bank sees for itself, assuming already that the Right was in government and directed the Ministry of Finance. The main reason for the interest rate rise is that when there is a very low interest rate, it becomes growth in the economy, i.e. the eccentricity of both outdoor and home interest rates is the main driver of interest rate increases. Today's Business said in the president on June 8th that the Right fiscal spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, should have points for political reluctance. For me, it's hard to find any good reason not to understand the intent of the characteristic, but I don't want to be close to using such expressions as political renown from this pulpit. What does the Right’s contribution to the tightening up of the revised national budget consist of? They suggest using 722 million. kr less, which is an estimated 1 per million of the expenditure in the State budget. So this is the big deal that the Right is doing to get a setup that's better adapted to the economic situation and that's going to yield a lower interest rate than the red-green proposals. Yes, yes, it can also be said in an election year. In fact, in the debate today, I feel that the Minister for Finance has been somewhat right on this issue in relation to the high level of cigarette smoking in the press release in connection with the revision of the national budget. I think it would be wise, yes very wise, to stifle itself in relation to the high cigarette leading.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e831	Although that is the credit message we are discussing today, at least in the introduction to the debate could get the impression that there was quite another thing a debated, simply the Progress Party's alternative state budget, and also the use of oil money. Since it was brought on track, I also want to say a few words about that. When it comes to the governor's announcement that if one spends more money, it can create pressure in the Norwegian economy, I think absolutely everyone is a few that if one spends more money in exactly the same way that the government spends money today, it can create pressure in the Norwegian economy, as well as interest rate rises. But that's not what the Progress Party is doing, nor is it the Progress Party I'm talking about. We have a completely different arrangement on our financial policy than the government party and government has. I just want to repeat what was in our alternative state budget. We spent about $15 billion more on oil than the government, but we had $12 billion more on net in public spending – and 12 plus 15 is going to be $27 billion more on taxes than the government proposed in its budget. That's what we've got the Statistical Central Bureau going through. They have, unlike the governor, gone through this thoroughly and calculated it, and they have also stated that if our alternative government budget had been agreed, it would give an interest rate of 0.6 pst. lower than the interest rate developed by the policy behind the Government. There are a number of factors and factors that have led the Statistical Central Bureau to arrive at this, and one of the most important factors is that the tax burden on employee income will increase the supply of work. In particular, there is an effect that occurs when it relates to tax relief to those who have lower and middle incomes. There are often people who work in less than 100 pst. position, which may increase its working capacity if one is left with more net per. hours of work. Another factor that can also affect this is that when moving money from the private sector to the public sector also results in a reduction in demand for goods and services abroad and an increase in demand for goods and services in Norway. Privates simply use a much higher percentage of their income to buy goods and services abroad than the public does. So when you move money from the private sector to the public sector, it's going to put a pressure on the economy. It is also the case that some of the charges that we have entered into lead to a distortion of demand. I want to take an example, namely that we have gone in to reduce the one-time charge on the car, and it is right that reducing the one-time charge on the car will create a higher demand for new cars than if the price is higher on the cars. This will result in a newer car park, a newer car park will pollute less, it will be more environmentally friendly, it will also be more road-safe, and a more road-safe car park will reduce the number of road accidents. So that's the point that cars aren't being produced in Norway, they're being produced abroad, so when we get an increased demand for cars, there won't be any pressure in the Norwegian economy. On the contrary, because a newer car park will result in less need for car repair services than if one has an older car park. I thought that if we are going to discuss this which goes on increasing oil money consumption and the Progress Party's alternative state budget, one should soon come to terms with what there is disunity in. What kind of actions the SSB has focused on are there differences? There must be a path and not just an SSB conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e842	The really large cabin cruisers have occupied Norwegian archipelago. Animal convertibles and quadruples are becoming an increasingly common sight. Housing prices beat new records, and there is a loan party in Norway. And that which, among other things, in writing. - (FR) This loan commitment is marked by the fact that the discharge and the longer repayment periods have become much more frequent. The majority of the Committee is concerned about these trends, as opposed to the Progress Party, which has less taken on board the fact that this is how the borrowing takes place in good times, which determines how the borrowers deal with the debt at lower times. While material wealth is rising to new records in Norway, the situation is much less joyful for a majority of earth’s population. For the vast majority of those with whom we share the globe, brutal poverty is the reality. As a rich country, we have power. And one of the places we have power is as a member of the IMF. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, shall ensure the stability of the international monetary system. It is their purpose and they must prevent economic crises in Member States, lend to countries with payment problems and who are in crisis situations, or provide technical assistance. But the IMF has over time expanded its scope. This has appeared in a separate review report, the so-called Meland report, mentioned in the resolution. It is established that the IMF has stepped out of its bed and into the World Bank. In other words, they have pursued development policy without having the necessary top competence, and without the necessary legitimacy. This is now cleared up, and that's good. It is also good for the world's poor that the so-called conditionality principles are being reduced, that is. privatisation and liberalisation requirements. This also gives the Nordic-Baltic group a chance to take advantage of our positive experiences related to the Nordic welfare model, which also turns out to be very robust in a global economy, despite the gloomy predictions of many liberal economists. The IMF should therefore no longer interfere with the liberalisation and privatisation of Member States, because it is unfortunate that democratic countries are forced to privatise international institutions which have a different role to play, namely to stabilise monetary policy. Instead, the IMF should help many poor countries with technical assistance so that knowledge of monetary policy can be used for economic development for those countries that have so many millions of poor people and need a better future. It is the best form of assistance that the IMF can provide, in addition to the core areas I mentioned earlier, which they must of course continue to provide. And then we get to hope for the very poorest that both the World Bank and the IMF can be even better at solving their problems. In addition, of course, we also hope for a soft landing for the high economic activity in Norway, and that all borrowers will endure what comes after this, including those who have chosen the redemption period and the long commitment period on their loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e859	The representative Gjermund Hageseter of the Progress Party is surprised and delighted that the comments of the Advance Party in the credit message are what will become the theme in this Chamber when we debate this very topic. For me, it doesn't come exactly like any bomb, because this is a party that stands completely on the sidelines and despite a so-called collective professional environment in Norway and internationally that says what will happen to a device and a use of money that it is added to the budgets of the Progress Party. Because we're so afraid of what's going to happen to e.g. Newly educated friends sitting on large mortgages, or with people with poor advice who have mortgages — what will be the consequences of doing so — we need to spend time on it. Let's just go into some of the truth witnesses. One of the examples used here is, as the representative Leirstein pointed out in his post, a single economist. And then we've also heard Leirstein refer to the construction industry, that they think that there's room here to do both one and the other. Yeah, it'll be like going into a store manager, or a shopkeeper, and saying, "Do you want to sell more?" He doesn't answer no to that. That would be very hard to do. As you call out in the woods, you get answers – although there are probably single sites in Norway where there is free capacity in that field. So to the trump card, which is the SSB calculation of what's going to be the sum of interest on the Advance Party's budget. Yes, let's go a little bit into the counter performances, then. Firstly, under half of the budget increases proposed by the Progress Party are included in the calculations made by the SSB. It was then assumed to be 15 billion kroner in increased oil money usage. The foreign budget of NOK 7 billion and the cancellation of tolls of NOK 12 billion have been completely excluded. So the total number was going to be NOK 35 billion, not NOK 15 billion. Well, as far as I understand, it's so that the MODAG model and the SSB don't say anything about the interest rate, but that the assessment is more guessing. That's also confirmed in the presentation of these numbers that the Ådne Cappel in the SSB. He says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘Norway’s bank is not only concerned with inflation but also with dampening the pressure on the economy. The calculations show that the pressure in the economy will increase, and one could therefore imagine that Gedrem will increase interest rates in order to reduce pressure.’ Another quote from the same presentation: ‘We do not know how Norway’s Bank thinks.’ Well, we know how Norges Bank thinks. We have now received a response through several hearings for several years in a row. We can only briefly refer to 10 May of this year, when Mr Gedrem concluded in the open hearing of the Financial Committee on this report: ‘We have not now examined the analysis of the Central Statistical Office as you did’ — that is, the questioner — ‘shown, but we have seen that they have been in doubt about the interest effect it would have. We can help to subdue that doubt in and on a case-by-case basis." Then he continues, and at the very end he also says something that also Gjermund Hagesetter was in, that it is the arrangement in the budget that is crucial for how interest rate developments will be. The Governor states that: ‘It is the main mechanism, whether the use of oil money is increased on the expenditure side of the budgets or on reduced taxes’ – which will then have the same ‘follower’. It was a little bit freely quoted, just so we have it with us. So we know very well what's going on. That's why we're spending a lot of time on this. It is therefore a global international trade union environment, and so to speak, a comprehensive Norwegian trade union environment, warns against doing this. That's why I think it's right and fair that the single factor that may have the greatest impact on people's lives most, namely that interest rates do not fall into the weather and trot Norwegian economy, is also a topic when debating a credit report.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e893	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e896	I want to try to include another side of the credit statement that I think is important. But let me begin by giving support to the work done by the Financial Committee in its communication. For us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is not without significance what the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, is doing and what policy it is pursuing. It is necessary that all aspects of the policy towards the poor countries be consistent. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already taken steps towards the World Bank to identify programmes that help to privatise and liberalise developing countries and the condition for loans. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the fact that the Stortinget is invited to discuss IMF policies towards developing countries in the context of aid policy and other policies that together constitute the international pressure to market vulnerable sectors and to reduce the political scope of action in developing countries. The wording of the Soria Moria declaration on conditionality is that ‘Norwegian assistance should not go to programmes requiring liberalisation and privatisation.’ Therefore, it is important that the Government informs the Storting on how the efforts to prevent the IMF from using conditionality in order to promote privatisation and liberalisation can best be combated. through effective use of governance representation and by withholding or terminating funding for programmes where the IMF’s conditionality requirements are used. In this context, I have noted the government's firm decision in relation to the infrastructure fund. The criticism of the ‘Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility’ loan scheme and the fact that the IMF lacks sufficient competence to follow-up work on the poorest countries suggest that Norway should work towards the completion of poverty reduction work in these countries and leave it to programmes under the direction of UN organisations. All professional assessments suggest that the most rational approach is to reduce and clarify the extent of the IMF's tasks within the official mandate of the IMF, relating to financial stability, short-term loans and global imbalances, such as sources of trade deficits and trade surplus, as mentioned in the Communication. This will help to direct the IMF towards its adopted mandate from Bretton Woods in 1948. Finally, let me point out that the Government is working for a more open and democratic governance of the IMF and the World Bank. However, industrialised countries still have more than 60pst. by the voting weight of the IMF. It is therefore important that the IMF does not engage in internal policy priorities. We must have strong respect for democracy, and it requires that no external forces constantly override national and local priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e909	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3486]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e925	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e934	The fact that environmental and climate policies are evidence-based is important because, on the basis of sound factual evidence, they will be able to make correct decisions at all times. However, if environmental and climate policies are to be taken on the basis of facts, this needs to be facilitated. That must be a priority. Monitoring the climate and environmental situation of Svalbard is beneficial, as we know that local sources of pollution are negligible, as well as sea and air flows making Svalbard a good place to conduct observation. 2007 is the International Polar Year. It's an important year when this year we're getting a boost for international research in the Arctic and Antarctica. The Polar Year will give us new knowledge, including: in the field of climate. It is likely that the Polar Year 2007–08 will also be the largest international research collaboration ever, as over 60 countries and perhaps over 50,000 researchers will participate in this. The first air measuring station on the Zeppelin mountain in the New Ålesund was opened in 1990. In 1998, the Ministry of the Environment decided to build a new, modern station facility on the Zeppelin mountain, which had the capacity to continue its activities and meet the needs of the future. The new station was opened in 2000 and is currently a flagship with regard to research and monitoring of greenhouse gases and research and monitoring of ozone and UV radiation. The Norwegian activity at the Zeppelin station is an important ground plan for the use of facilities and information that the Zeppelin Observatory can provide to foreign research communities. It is therefore of great importance to maintain the Zeppelin Observatory as an important research environment in environmental and climate research, in the light of the major challenges facing us in this field. As case rapporteur on this matter, I have felt that there is consensus in the Committee that the Zeppelin station is unique in the world context, among other things. in relation to the measurement of air pollution and that the members of the Committee also agree with the importance of the observatory as a whole. However, the majority of the Committee refers to the budgetary procedure for the autumn concerning increased appropriations, whereas there is a minority in the Committee which is somewhat impatient after using the laboratory in full. For this, there is a need for funds. But I hope and assume, also on the basis of the letter that the Committee has received from the Council of State, that during the autumn we will be able to say that we are using the Zeppelin Observatory in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e951	It is reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration that the Government regards the northern regions as Norway's main strategic area of activity in the coming years. Svalbard is an important part of our northern regions, and a sustained commitment to Svalbard is in line with the objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy, which marks our sovereignty. This is reflected in the government's work of bringing Svalbard into UNESCO's world heritage list. It is reflected in St.meld. No 14 for 2006-2007 on a non-toxic society, where Svalbard has been mentioned in the context of research into particularly long-range transport of pollutants. It is also reflected in St.meld. No 8 for 2005-2006 on the overall management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten, where the Government is committed to enhanced monitoring. And this is reflected in the letter from the Environment Minister to the Committee, where New Ålesund and the research station on the Zeppelin Mountain, 474 meters above the site, are described in positive order. In March of this year, the International Polar Year, IPY, began. It is a major effort in the Arctic to go until March 2009. Over 60 nations have reported their interest here. The Svalbard budget for 2006–2007 reads that under IPY, a multidisciplinary measurement effort will provide data sets for better climate models and projections, including ocean currents and climate connections between low and high ground data. The Government has decided that Norway will strongly engage in this cooperation and aim to play a leading role in this work. The government has granted additional funds for this. Furthermore, the Government of the budget for Svalbard in 2006-2007 states that its objective is to further expand New Ålesund as an international research centre in the Arctic, within the framework of infrastructure and other capacities. In 2006, eight countries had their own research stations, and soon India is coming, and with such a development it is important that the infrastructure of the New Ålesund is efficient. Kings Bay AS owns and operates the New Ålesund Research Station and will organise and provide services for on-site research. The company's main trademark is to offer a virtually untouched natural environment to the international research community. One of the world’s most important laboratories for climate research must be in such a constitution that an effective measurement activity is possible at all times. New Ålesund is unique. Here, isolation is one of the advantages of the place, and the high-tech society has neither street lights nor mobile phones. The apparatus must not be disturbed. Unfortunately, however, they have a power station that is today the largest source of pollution on the ground. It shouldn't be like that. Only the best clean-up of energy production in New Ålesund will be right to compete as a polar and climate research station. An application is made in the Ministry of Industry. The world is facing major climate challenges and Norway is an active participant in climate research. It is true, as the Left claims in the proposal for a representative, that the Norwegian part of the research activity at the Zeppelin station has fallen. I believe it is important that we look at this relationship, that we now focus for two years on being a leader in Arctic research – this is also the Research Council’s agenda – and that New Year’s Health is optimally exploited throughout the year. With China's rapid development, we see an increasing growth of pollution in the Arctic. Chinese coal contains large amounts of mercury released into the atmosphere. The winds lead this to the Arctic and to Svalbard. It is therefore gratifying that the government is adding up to an additional measurement campaign for mercury and is granting extra money for this. There is no political disagreement about the value of the Zeppelin station, nor is there any disagreement that greater government appropriations will provide even greater basis for the full-year exploitation of the station. As the Council of State states in its letter to the Committee, this will be assessed in the context of the budget for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e977	For a moment I thought this was almost going to be a solid debate on the northern regions, and that is to some extent also. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on the government's Northern Territory bet, because we're not necessarily as happy with it as the last speaker. But the representative, Mr Pedersen, has a good point: the Committee broadly agrees on this matter. Svalbard in general and not least the Zeppelin mountain in particular is a great place to conduct research, not least on air quality and pollution. It's also a great place for those who are there, I think. The Committee has visited the site, as mentioned, and had an amazing experience up there. But this isn't just about science. It is also a little bit of a matter of Norwegian sovereignty on Svalbard. The point of progress is of the opinion that the primary tasks of the Stortinge in relation to the Zeppelin station are to ensure that the infrastructure in the area is properly and properly operated, that the station has sufficient resources for operation and maintenance, and, where necessary, that upgrading is provided to continue to have an international leading infrastructure for air quality research. Therefore, the Progress Party is pleased that the Government expresses its agreement, and that further efforts will be made on the infrastructure of the Zeppelin Mountain in the future. The international polar year will also obviously be useful for Zeppelin, because the activities of the northern regions, around the world, are going to increase. Then it is good that Norway has something to say about the Zeppelin station. With regard to all the environmental problems we face, whether it be the Kyoto challenge, CO2 or mercury emissions, more knowledge is needed. There is a need for more knowledge about all of these things. In view of that, and with the crazy environmental rhetoric that comes many times from the special government parties, it is a paradox that one has chosen to take a break from real-life research and education in general. There is no doubt that the Zeppelin and NILU environments are important in relation to Norwegian real-time research and development. But it's not the only research organizations we have in this country that work on these things. Some of these may be strengthened, but the whole thing is that this government has weakened research into real science – biology, chemistry, etc. I also believe that the representative, Torny Pedersen, is interested in something important when she talks about the launch of a project to research at mercury levels, which has increased in polar areas because emissions from Chinese coal power plants have increased dramatically. That is exactly what the Progress Party is trying to point to in the setting, namely that when the Government and other actors need knowledge about something, it is ordered. A larger proportion of research in Norway should be mission-based. There needs to be more strategy from this room and less detailed management. That is why the Progress Party has insisted that we essentially support the Government's proposal in today's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e993	I take up the proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left in the setting, since no one has remembered to do so. We love to use Svalbard, in many ways, as an exhibition window for our policies. We would like to invite you to Prime Minister meetings, or invite future US presidential candidates, to tell us what kind of unique geographic area we have, which is actually permanently inhabited, also to visually illustrate how vulnerable this area can be if the world evolves in a direction that nobody wants, and which we alternately try to do to prevent it from going in the wrong direction. Therefore, in this case, we all want to upgrade both environmental and climate research. In this context, there is every reason to give honor to the proposers because they address this particular matter. The Zeppelin Observatory is unique. It has unique position and function. But what this matter is about is that this institution has not evolved as intended. It has not developed as calculated when channelling investment funds and operating resources to build this institution. It is quite correct when proposers point out that today’s appropriations do not at all provide room for exploiting the unique research potential of the observatory. When we have the ambitions we have to produce research results, the rate of allocation is so that the development of the Zeppelin Observatory is going in a diametrically opposite direction to what is desirable. Then it has to ring some bells when we see that the number of research days in the last three years has been reduced by 35 pst. You might think that the arrow went the opposite way. In fact, we have been able to develop a rather unique international research environment at Svalbard, both through university establishment up there and under the control of the environment around Kings Bay and New Ålesund. The problem is that the rate of allocation is not followed up. I think another problem is that both the university community and the research institutions are falling up there in many ways between two chairs. There is no one who feels good, strong and robust enough to care for the interests of these environments, and we have to do something about that, if we want to achieve the goals we set ourselves. It's actually the most of all that this case is about. There is already a robust environment that is now operating at a minimum, which actually has capacity, and which, in relation to its objectives and wishes, would evolve in a completely different direction from what the institutions are doing. So what do we do with this? Some people have to put on a leadership jersey on these issues. We can't use a kind of waitress language, this isn't my table, not my responsibility, which I have a certain sense that both the University and Kings Bay environment at Svalbard is currently suffering. Then my call is that someone has to make sure to go into the questions carefully: why do we have this reduction in the number of research days? What can we do to market New Ålesund in a different and better way than what we've done so far? This job, at least until someone else gets it, must be done by the department. I assume that the Council of State will have the opportunity to address this challenge in its intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1008	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1011	After working on this matter on its own behalf and with the Left for a year and a half, it goes faster than Moses' journey through the Sinai Desert – in the sense that it didn't go for 40 years, but it's been a year and a half. If you want to measure it in the number of benevolent words that have been received on the road, you could say that the policy has three opinions: think it would, and do it. Think it has done about all that has been said until this debate, including various Councils of State. I also realized that they did, but to do so – no. Then I can start by giving a happy information to the assembly. As the Norwegian delegation leader and in good teamwork with the entire delegation and in cooperation with the current government, the Western Union Parliamentary Assembly has just discussed the northern regions with the main climate challenge. Next perspective: the energy situation. And the last perspective: security policy. In that investigation, which passes unanimously, one points especially to the New Ålesund. Then I'm going to take this perspective: When you're in Paris, you see, of course – something I know after being at the top of the Zeppelin Observatory – that the Eiffel Tower is lower than the top of the Zeppelin Observariet. Anyone who wants to test their limits in some area, I recommend taking the trip up. It's an interesting experience, especially when you get to the top, and also along the way. I say it this way because I've been following Svalbard for many years in different political roles. I've been in New York many times, and I was last at the Zeppelin Observatory last summer. I am pleased that the Stortinget has this debate we have now. I have raised the matter with several state councils, with various parliamentary leaders in almost all the contexts you can imagine. But as I said, after a year and a half, we get the reaction that the committee has given, and I see the positive in it. Let me say the following: once I have picked up the Zeppelin Observatory, it is because I perceive it almost as a lighthouse. It is simply a unique place to conduct scientific studies in any climate context, and Norway has made a cap to establish it. According to my knowledge, there are three things you can do at the observatory: Point 1: Use more money to have people – and they shouldn't be on site, for example. be at the Norwegian Institute of Air Research, NILU – which allows you to measure more of what you can actually measure and then analyse it. It's the easiest thing to do. Point 2: Upgrading the infrastructure so you can measure more. Point 3: Having people to take what you can measure out. The sum of this is a place between 7 and 10 million. kr. There is money exchange both in a polar year context and in a climate policy context, but it is incredibly well spent. The Committee, with its various fractions, has very well described the importance of the Zeppelin Observatory. Then the committee has brought with it a back carpet, which several people have been in, and at the latest the representative from the Right. It is absolutely true that in New Ålesund, where we have built a glittering infrastructure, the Norwegian effort is not as strong as that coming from outside. It is clear that then there must be a lack of coordination and a lack of willingness to bet and to use that structure, which is wonderful. That other country is there, we just have to rejoice. That Hillary Clinton took John McCain and others and went there, we must rejoice. That the conservative party leader in the United Kingdom went there, we have to be happy about that. That Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg went there and had a Nordic Prime Minister's meeting there, we must be glad about that. But by all this joy, it should have dripped some money. I hope I speak so directly that it's not just coming – we don't just live by air and love, even though I'm a fan of both. In this respect, in addition to air, love, faith and hope, money is needed. I hope that these steps will now come to the Zeppelin Observatory. So we can say, why are we doing this? Well, because Norway has all the opportunities to be at the top of the world in many important areas and especially on a topic like climate, and why in the world are we going to put those ambitions aside when we can be not only good, but very good, and we all have the opportunity to be that? I am also pleased that the minority has taken up the proposal that has been made. That way, it'll be made clear by a voeting. I hope – I get to stick to the biblical expression of faith, hope and love, but love is the greatest – that through love’s redeeming words that have been expressed here, all hearts of the Ministry of Finance at budgetary conferences soften so much that the millions that come to the Zeppelin observariet are coming. I'm using image language, because in the past it hasn't helped with any other language, so it's time to use the image language. But for the sake of all the good forces in this room – humanity and Norway’s ability to serve humanity in a good way – I hope that what is then from the majority leads to action. So I'm glad that the minority has taken up this proposal. I sincerely hope that this matter will not end up as Moses' wandering, so that the staff must finally go from Moses to Joshua to enter the land of the promised land. Then it goes a little too many years. The harvest budget should be the last round to allow this matter to circulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1030	We are totally dependent on effective monitoring that enables us to monitor developments in the state of the environment and to detect new environmental problems early on. We need good monitoring as a basis for the priorities we are going to make of various environmental measures, both in order to reach out with important information, in order to raise awareness of the environment and to be able to follow up satisfactorily on our commitments to international agreements. The pollution from the industrialised regions of Central Europe and the United States is led by sea and wind currents to the polar regions of the north and to Svalbard. Svalbard therefore has a particularly important geographical location in relation to the monitoring of long-range transport pollution. Furthermore, long continuous time series of measurements are essential to detect trends in concentrations of both greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances in the atmosphere. Measurements at the Zeppelin station in the New Ålesund at Svalbard have been in progress since 1989 and are considered highly reliable because local sources of contamination at Svalbard are negligible. The Zeppelin station is therefore a key station in the Arctic’s global environmental problems. The Ministry of Environment has used an average of around 3.8 million in recent years. kr annually for measurements at the station on atmospheric pollutants, greenhouse gases, acid rain and ozone. This will continue in 2007. In addition, this year an additional measurement campaign for mercury will be launched, bringing the total in 2007 to about 4.1 million. kr. The Ministry of the Environment also finances the operation of the plant by about 1.5 million. kr annually. In addition, the Ministry undertakes the necessary upgrading of the building and, in this context, the allocation for 2006 at the latest NOK 650 000 for this purpose. As I said, as Minister for the Environment, I agree that the Zeppelin station has a special role to play in monitoring and research on long-range transport of air pollution, greenhouse gases, ozone and UV radiation. Further upgrading of the station will be assessed in the context of the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1047	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1050	I'm glad that the Council of State expresses itself as specifically as she does now. My question is whether the Council of State will be sure – be absolutely sure – that you are now giving enough money to take it out as per. Today you can measure at the station, and that you have people doing that particular job, because it's not based on new infrastructure or new measurement options. It is based on existing measurement possibilities. So my question is, will the Council of State make sure that this year we actually measure everything we can measure, and that we have people to analyze the data we can measure, at the Zeppelin Observatory?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1060	According to my assessment, the capacity at the station is well used and will be further exploited through the large project of the international polar year, POLARCAT, where one will use the station for measurements. A common concern for all those involved in both the Zeppelin station, climate and air pollution is that the station should be used as best as possible. Then we see that of course it depends on a continuous upgrading of the infrastructure, and I will come back to that in connection with the budget for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1067	The Council of State says that the capacity is well used. This is the true opposite of both the proposal and the Committee's comments, which refer to a downward trend in the number of days spent on research, etc. The reduction is pretty dramatic. Looking a few years ahead, which we have to do in this important case, this will be about assuming responsibility for the institution's being given a defined place in the research system in Norway and, not least, the ability to operate both nationally and internationally. Will the Council of State assume responsibility for the provision of resources and for the institution to receive sound national and international marketing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1078	I have just assured that further appropriations for the Zeppelin station will be examined and evaluated in the context of the 2008 budget. I want to emphasise again that the station is very important for the Norwegian research community, but also for many of the international networks. We now have a slightly special situation in connection with the International Polar Year. Then, of course, the station is very well used, because it has several coordinating functions. In the major international project POLARCAT, which is part of the International Polar Year, the station is used in a very favourable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1087	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3486]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1105	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1114	The Committee has examined the proposal of the Party for Progress as follows: All parties, except the Party for Progress, refer to the letter from the Minister for Oil and Energy concerning this proposal, which is based on, under I, giving municipalities the right to veto the development of wind power and, under II, to make an exception provision. The Minister for Oil and Energy wrote in his letter: ‘The fact that a concession treatment of wind power plants and other energy installations often faces difficult balances between different interests and interests will not change the fact that statutory veto rights and the related exemption provisions.’ [[...]] It is not to be overlooked that the views of the host municipalities in many contexts need to be balanced against other interests in the specific case. An overall assessment of each case is also carried out during the concession proceedings. If you give a veto right, it won't be such an overall assessment. There will also be different reasons why a municipality opposes the granting of a concession. Therefore, an exemption provision must be designed in general and will provide little guidance on specific cases. The Council of State also writes that there is something special to treat a wind power plant differently from other energy plants and introduce a special rule for wind power plants that go beyond the normal energy planning. On this basis, the majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1130	It's a little signed I take the floor in this case, for the husband of the arrogance of the majority as what we see today, I have rarely seen. One bothers to just write two lines in the setting, where one abdicates from his own opinions in the matter and fully points to what the Council of State thinks. So no other party than the Advance Party has expressed itself to have any particular position in such an important issue – one does not go into matter to any extent. This is an important principleal problem, because there are many similar issues coming in the future. All the parties in this room that now form a majority have said that one has the objective of building wind turbines equal to 3 TWh. There are many potential projects, although the Government’s renewable energy policy has made some of them ridiculous. There's no doubt that you'll be able to meet the objective of 3 TWh. It does so, while there is a high and increasing level of conflict in which wind power projects are wanted to be built. The question the Progress Party is trying to raise is to what extent municipalities should be able to have a right of reservation in respect of projects located within their municipal borders, and where the local people elected – I am not talking about a protest group – say that this particular project we do not want in our municipality. Let me stress that one in the Austevoll municipality has not been against everything called wind power projects. Three other power projects initially wanted one to say yes to, but one of them thought one was too dominant on this island group. As a consequence, one will force them to accept the wind farm they were in favour of, they have said no to all four projects. They're good enough for treatment. But the principle that we are discussing here, the Stortinget should have a sense of – not just abdicate and leave the matter to the Council of State. I have been to the municipality of Austevoll together with my party trap Tord Lien. It's a great group of islands. The windmills we are discussing here will be very visible. They will lie in an area that I would think many in this room would otherwise want to protect in the strictest way. But since you're going to build windmills, it's okay. It is a paradox that in many of these municipalities, for example, one is denied. to build a cabin in the stop zone. But if you're going to build wind turbines in the same area, that's fine. Perhaps some municipalities should say that the requirement to build a cabin in the beach zone is that the cabin is designed as a windmill. At least it would have been approved by the NVE. It'll be pretty hopeless for the municipalities to deal with. The Council of State shows in its response to the general power supply and that it is the responsibility of the Council of State. No one denies it. Nor has anyone been more concerned with power supply in Norway in recent years than the Progress Party. We have made a number of proposals, both small and large, about a strong increase in the development of new energy production, but they have been voted down. Then the question is, when one in all other cases has shown that environmental considerations are going to weigh so incredibly heavily, why is it that when we talk about windmills, the environment shouldn't mean anything at all because it's politically correct? The Progress Party has called for a more comprehensive approach, both in terms of energy supply in general, for example: by requesting the Government to submit every two years a communication on the state of energy, the corresponding communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, which has been voted against by the parties of government, and in the case of windmills, it has been asked to submit an overall plan to coordinate the windmill projects and to close out the worst, most conflict-affected, at an early stage. That too has been voted down. The consequences of that being voted down, we are discussing here today. The Progress Party believes that it must be an important principle to build up new power generation where one gets the most for money and the least conflict, both for the environment and for the local population. In this case, there is conflict both with the environment and not least with local democracy. When the government says that the power supply is so important that we can't ignore this, we should look at the first government did after it entered their premises. It was protecting the Wefsna – a project to which all the four host municipalities were positive. The county council was in favour of it, almost all political parties and organisations were in favour of it, the power company said it was one of the best power projects they had left – but it was therefore protected by environmental considerations. So don't come here and talk about the power supply being essential! We know that there are a number of municipalities around the country that want wind turbines, so there are also no problems in achieving the goal that the majority of the population has taken on. The question is whether the few municipalities that want to reserve themselves against windmills should have a chance to do so. At least in relation to the election campaign we are now facing, where local democracy is going to be a honeymoon, one today should show that one actually means serious when talking about local democracy. It is sad for them at Austevoll today that they feel that their many enquiries to Stortinget have not been heard, when even one cannot write more than two lines about the matter in the committee setting. I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1156	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1159	Just a brief explanation of why we do not support the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter. At least it's not because of arrogance. Although we have not written so much in the setting, there is reason to conclude that the picture presented here by the representative Solvik-Olsen, that local democracy is largely set aside under development requests and in treatment situations, probably not quite correct. The assessment of the host municipalities must be given very high weight in any concession case. That's the way it's supposed to be, as far as the Right view is concerned. When we do not support this proposal, it is because we have set ourselves some rather ambitious targets for generating new renewable energy in this country. Of course, they cannot be achieved by forcing local democracy first and foremost, but some national objectives and achievements within this objective and policy must be. I think that the challenge of achieving the number of TWh that we've set ourselves as targets, is going to be so tough, both economically and practically, that the goal cannot be achieved without risking to touch in some conflict. There will be conflicts in this area; I think that is quite predictable. We have a service obligation in this country, and precisely in the area from which the Progress Party has drawn its example, we know that in a few years' time we are in a situation where the region must be given power, probably to a significant extent from the outside. Then we know that here we will encounter other challenges, such as the creation of transmission capacity, high voltage networks, etc., etc. This can also be a germ of conflict. Not least we see from the areas that have to deliver, that here we can get into situations where the construction of high voltage networks etc. will go beyond the local and regional environment and be a germ to conflict in the knowledge and the broad. We need to achieve our targets for the development of new renewable energy. At the same time, we understand what the representative of Solvik-Olsen pointed out in his statement, that this should be done in understanding, with local democracy, etc. But to introduce veto rights in these issues, I don't think I'll be the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1170	Energy and the environment become, as I see it, one of the great questions of the century. Climate change is already under way and global temperatures are rising. We know that climate change is a result of the use of fossil energy by humans and the release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. We also have plenty of reports on what action needs to be taken. We know that we need to think new, and that clean and environmentally friendly energy production is future energy production. Norway has a unique ability to produce emission-free power, including: from wind. We have the best wind conditions in Europe. With regard to the Government’s 30 TWh target from renewable energy, wind power must also be included as an important component. It's in this case, as in most others, important with good processes. In the case of wind power generation, it is important that municipalities and landowners experience being part of the processes. By being part of the processes, much can also be cleared up by the road along the way, and with good processes where municipalities and landowners feel that they are an important part, you also get a much larger ownership relationship with the expansions to take place. It's an advantage for the projects. As the Christian People's Party sees it, there is no need for new structures, but for one to use the structures that exist, and for one to act wisely. There are many wind turbines planned, as the Progress Party writes in its comments. I don't think you need to be a fortune-teller to say that many of these won't be started. First of all, it is probably due to the low aid scheme for wind power, as the majority in this Chamber has decided, but it is also true that many projects will not be launched because they are not compatible with the different guidelines we have in relation to wind energy concession treatment. That's the way it has to be. I think the representative from the Right has something to say, that with wind power there will be conflicts. Therefore, it is so important that we try to have good processes with the parties involved as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1185	The representatives of the Progress Party propose the establishment of legal arrangements giving municipalities the right to veto wind power development. As I have explained in a letter to the Committee, I am opposed to this proposal. Energy balance and security of supply are State responsibilities. The power system is a complex structure in which production, transmission and consumption have to be seen in the context of both national and cross-border aspects. No energy measures are without conflicts. At the same time, there is a great need for renewable and climate-friendly energy. In the concession treatment, we weigh all relevant considerations on a local, regional and national scale. The applications are subject to a comprehensive and open process, focusing on participation and publicity through, inter alia: local public meetings and more consultation rounds. The use of natural resources for renewable energy must take place where the resources are. Thus, the benefits of expansion do not necessarily fall to only the community that is burdened by an action. Significant emphasis is given to the views of municipalities on the development issue. It is therefore important that adaptation and implementation be made as prudently as possible in line with the interests of the host municipality once a measure has been decided. Since the location of the host municipality is given considerable emphasis, it is in cases of heavy energy balance and security of supply that regional and national concerns need to be more weighty. The proposers propose a municipal veto right for a selected type of energy plant, namely wind power. At the same time, the proposers in their batch programme believe that the development of new hydropower needs to be based on societal considerations. I believe that all new energy production must be done according to social assessments. In my view, this requires an overall and overall treatment that also places considerable emphasis on the views of the host municipality. This is why I oppose the proposal to grant municipalities the right to veto wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1207	In his reasons for not recommending the proposals of the Progress Party, the Council of State only refers to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Proposal No. On the other hand, 2 say that the Council of State should be able to come up with proposals for guidelines to ignore proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox So, where the power supply is of such national importance that one cannot accept that a municipality says no, one should be able to penetrate it. But then it becomes the exception instead of the rule. When the Council of State takes into account proposal No. 2 in addition to proposal No. 1, is the matter not then a little different?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1214	As I said in my post, since there is a significant emphasis on the position of the host municipality, it is in cases of heavy energy balance and security of supply that regional and national concerns must outweigh the municipal interests. It is the practice of such guidelines in relation to local democracy. I believe that this is well taken care of today, and there is a thorough examination of each case, the benefits and disadvantages for each municipality, and environmental considerations are weighed down. It is not as the representative said in his statement that environmental considerations do not weigh heavily in the development of wind power. Well, they do, environmental considerations are also given considerable weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1220	We're all aware that part of Hordaland is about to face a serious power challenge thanks to many years of emergency, but we're not going to owe it to the state council that's here today. So the question is, when you talk about this with regional and national considerations, etc.: Does the Council of State think that the windmills at Austevoll will make a significant contribution to saving the power supply in the Hordaland area, or is there hardly any significant contribution in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1227	The case of the construction of wind power at Austevoll is under review, and is now under investigation in the NVE. Once the appeal procedure in the NVE has been completed, the case will be sent to my department. I will therefore not comment on that matter today. In order to illustrate some of the challenges we face, it is right that the representative says that there are significant challenges with power discovery in this region. Another demanding project that we will be receiving in time is the construction of a new power line for this area, which will also represent significant environmental pressures in some areas of Hordaland. You can ask yourself why it is that the municipality should have veto rights in relation to the development of windmills and not in relation to the development of power lines, which are perceived by too many to be equally intimidating. I'm trying with this to illustrate that the expansion or transfer of energy production is demanding no matter what form it takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1236	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1241	Until further notice that those who have spoken so far have said that the Committee has dealt with this matter. I am almost inclined to say that the committee has not dealt with the matter. When I came in here as a fresh wholesaler in 2005, one of the first things I learned was that what we're discussing in the storeroom is the committee's position. The attitude of the majority is on two lines, and then you could call it dealing with the matter, and you might call it not to be arrogant, as the representative Ivar Kristiansen did. I'm not sure I fully agree with that. This is about a lot of relationships. As in many other matters that we deal with in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, this is about local democracy. Then you can call it arrogance or not, but we have a forest protection policy that goes across local democracy, we have watercourse protection, motor travel in the countryside, predatory policies, national salmon fjords and coastal zones. All are policy areas that the majority, with the Right and the Workers' Party alternately at the head, run across local democratic interests. Then it was about regional and national objectives, and then the representative Holten Hemdal comes and talks about the importance of the climate. It is true that we all agree in this room that there is a need to develop more renewable energy in this country. There is a clear and strong need to expand more renewable energy in this country. The majority who talk about forcing municipalities along the coast of Norway to build wind turbines consists of the same parties that are at the head to protect the watercourses in Norway. There is therefore a great local political goodwill around Norwegian municipalities to expand more hydropower. It's less environmental intervention to expand hydropower than to expand wind power with today's technology. I think that the small part of the oatmeal population that is left on Smøla is in for confirmation. This expansion also has lower costs and is far more relevant to security of supply. So there's a little paradox in this case. The majority today say that this is too important to let local democracy decide. But then, in a statement from the Conseilance Council to the Sameting, it says that the joint must be granted the right of objection in relation to windmill expansion. It is not an accusation against the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, but the three other parties have, according to the Council of Conseil, promised the Sameetinget full right of objection on the issue of windmill expansion. I then recommend that the municipalities that are not currently affected by the Sámi right of objection should obtain some reindeer in their municipality, so at least they will have the opportunity to object to windmill development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1263	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3486]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1279	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3486]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1295	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to one lot. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Dag Ole Tegen, on behalf of the spokesperson for the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1306	There is an overall committee that agrees with the proposers that preventive health work must have concrete objectives of reducing injuries and falling accidents in older people, and that access to simple janitorial services is an important measure in such a context. Through a thorough attitude of the Health and Welfare Committee, the Stortinget had previously addressed the Government’s big message Mestring, opportunities and meaning, on future care challenges. In the Committee's position on this Communication, the majority of the Committee wrote that the provision of simple watchmaster services is part of the prevention work. Strengthening the provision of assistance for simple daily tasks could help prevent injuries and falls and provide an opportunity to prevent femoral fractures and falls that particularly affect the elderly. Prevention of injuries and accidents among older people is of great importance and, in addition, it should be made possible for older people to be able to live in owner-occupied dwellings for as long as they wish. Therefore, the Committee calls on the Government to stimulate the construction and rehabilitation of high-availability dwellings. In the care notification, the Government announced a new investment grant to nursing homes and nursing homes. This grant shall also be granted for the adaptation of owner-occupied dwellings and access to the dwelling, e.g.: investment in a lift. I also think it is relevant to mention an action that the Government addresses in the Capital Communication, which is currently being discussed in the Municipal and Management Committee, where the Government will support the development of a Housing Environment Master Scheme to stimulate integration into the living environment. Environmental guardians shall help newly moved people to find their way, and the scheme shall be financed by the House Bank and the frog’s funds. In the opinion of the majority, municipalities, with their closeness to the population, should have the opportunity to design the service offer according to local circumstances. Municipalities themselves need to consider whether it is appropriate to build associated janitorial apartments in their elderly and senior dwellings. This Government is aiming to improve care services by strengthening the local economy. Until now, the total economy of municipalities has been strengthened by DKK 18 billion, including increased tax receipts retained by municipalities. We know that municipalities spend a large part of their increased income on improving care services. If the user fulfils the conditions of the Social Services Act and needs practical assistance, the services to be provided by a janitor will normally be covered by the provisions of the Social Services Act. Municipalities can decide for themselves how to organise these types of services. Many municipalities have good arrangements for outpatient services, so that older people can be helped, among other things. snow mowing, support and light bulb shifting, and other practical assistance. On this basis, the majority propose that the document be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1329	First of all, the undersigned will be allowed to give the left-wing rapporteurs the opportunity to address this issue, despite the fact that they have just dealt with the care message. The Progress Party also has, through its Document No. 8:83 for 2006-2007 addressed these issues, namely how to facilitate the provision of elderly people at home, with shiftmasters’ services and other things, in the context of development plans, so that the elderly receive the help they need. The Progress Party shall be the co-rapporteur for the two proposals submitted. I take them up by this, so that they come to voting. The Party for Progress shall have in its Document No. Eight proposals, which will be considered for the autumn, will be carefully reviewed throughout the elderly care policy. It's going to be exciting to see if you're going to go into that issue more thoroughly, because there's a need for it. There is such a need among the elderly that you cannot just push this over to the municipalities and say that this is the responsibility of the municipalities. That's exactly how I understand the proposers initially, that we have to give some signals. We have to give some signals that the municipalities have to give priority to this, in order for people to be able to live longer in their homes. The representative of the rapporteur of the case, Mr Tegen, refers to what has been done, what to look at, and he also refers to the notified grant referred to in the communication of care, which is linked, inter alia, to: shall consider a grant for lift and conversion. The problem for the rest of us in the room – and probably most – is that we do not yet know the size of this grant and how it should be designed. Then it is important to give some signals in advance about exactly what you mean. This is one of the things that are very important. As regards proposal No: 2, it is assumed that the Stortinget asks the Government to facilitate the construction of old people’s homes and senior homes with their guardian apartments, so that older people can live more fully at home. This is important just to make things right. The Progress Party sees, inter alia: this as part of the Care Pluss system that the Progress Party has been working for in several municipalities – and that we also want to work for later. But it's quite obvious that we in this room should give some clear signals and leads, so that these things get in place. That is not the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1348	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1351	The aim of the proposal we are now considering is that older people can live at home in their own homes for as long as possible. It's a goal that the Right fully shares. The active substance proposed is that municipalities should offer older people who need it, practical assistance and help, and guardian services in their own home, and I think that is a good idea. In addition, it is proposed that the Government should facilitate the construction of janitorial housing in relation to the elderly and senior dwellings. The right agrees that practical assistance at home is undoubtedly important for many older people, and that this could make it easier for many people to stay in their own homes any longer. It's an important value. According to the Social Services Act, municipalities are already obliged to provide practical assistance to cope with everyday life’s tasks. It is true that social services law allows for the use of judgement. However, the right-wing party considers that the municipalities themselves must have the freedom for which discretion is exercised to assess for themselves how the offer of the individual is to be exercised. There are so many differences between municipalities that we believe that the assessments to be made must and should be taken by those closest to the users, namely local politicians. We trust that local elected representatives will have the necessary insights into local needs and organise such a service if appropriate. However, the right would like to support the call for the Government to provide incentives for the construction and improvement of dwellings with a high degree of accessibility, so that older people may be able to obtain suitable housing on their own. There are already some public support schemes today, but there is reason to believe that this is an area where things can get better, and not least where the need gets bigger in the future. The right therefore supports the recommendation of the majority that the attached proposal be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1362	The time has come to make a stronger commitment to improving the quality and competence of care services offered to older people. Therefore, the disappointment was great when the government refused to reach a cross-political decision to make an obligating plan to ensure older people a worthy and secure old age. In the care notification we also discussed the janitorial services. The care message gave us a good overview of the enormous challenges that await us. In the course of the discussion, the Christian People's Party had a wide range of proposals that we saw as part of an obligatory plan. Efforts at more hospitals and nursing homes, more knowledge and competence of health and care professionals, and thus higher quality of care and more content in the everyday life of older people, were among the proposals we would like to have included in a multidisciplinary and cross-political plan. The number of older ladders, and many have good health and great resources. There has to be an effort to keep it going. We are concerned that preventive health work is being done, and in the context of the care notification, we supported the proposal to bet on caregivers services for the elderly. It is important to ensure that older people can take care of themselves in their own homes for as long as possible. Help on practical matters could just prevent accidental falls. Older people have different needs and measures need to be adapted to individual needs. According to the National Association for Public Health, the main prevention action for the elderly is to focus on elderly centres. That is why the Christian People's Party has also proposed that 10 million be set in the context of the review of the revised national budget. to establish an incentive grant for the development of pre-existing elderly centres and for the establishment of new ones. Measures must be taken to ensure that, when older people live longer, they also have better health. Elder centres provide more elderly people with the opportunity to live active lives, and this is an important step in ensuring a worthwhile old age. All older people should be entitled to daily or activity services. An effort on elderly centres in the care plan period up to 2015 will be important, as the large increase in the number of older people comes from 2020. It would be of great value to have as healthy and self-held an older population as possible, thus reducing the pressure on the health and care services in municipalities — and thus the need for health professionals, for which there will be a high demand. It seems that in the years to come, we will have an older population who will have greater mastery and more individualistic values, and that may also mean that older people will be more active in their own efforts for their living conditions and well-being. The future will also have a higher material standard than previous generations. With a better economy among the elderly, provision should be made to enable them to take greater responsibility for their own housing situation and to take care of themselves. And with such a development, janitorial services for the elderly will be important so that they can take responsibility for their own housing situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1377	I think everyone agrees that the aim of the proposal, namely that people can stay at home for as long as possible, is something we share. People actually want it, too. My experience, when I talk to older people, is that they want to stay at home for as long as possible. To move away from their home, which they may have lived for 40–50 years, is a pretty cool experience for many. Municipalities are obliged to provide practical assistance if an applicant complies with the requirements laid down by the Social Services Act. Of course, the municipality can and must decide how they can best solve this in cooperation with the user, i.e. how to provide practical assistance. When we travel around as big-time politicians and look at the municipal offer around, we see that the municipalities solve this in many different ways. I remember a municipality I was visiting, there was the janitor at the school who did the janitorial services for the elderly around, turned up handles and railings so they wouldn't fall, etc. So simple, practical things. With regard to the proposal that there should be a janitorial dwelling linked to possible nursing homes etc., I do not think there is a matter to be decided here on the Stortinget. What must be essential is simply that the elderly who live at home receive the necessary practical assistance that they need and that the municipality agrees to receive. I want to say that older people must otherwise, in line with everyone else, be able to buy services – whether the pipe jumps leaks or other things happen in the home. Older people shall not be treated differently in such areas than the population otherwise. Many older people also have the economy to sit in their own house and to be able to do these problems in a good way. What the municipality can do when people are no longer able to do these things themselves is to help that there is a device that is being put into action. In fact, I feel that most of the municipalities around me have in place, which means that you can solve the urgent problems that older people might have. It's not just in the interest of the elderly either, I think they're going to stay at home for a long time. In fact, it is also in the municipality's interest that people should stay at home for as long as possible. What's important is that you get the help you need for things that you can't solve in a good way. The decision on Stortinget that such and such things should be, does not want the Center Party to participate in. But at the same time, I want to show that it is important that these services exist, and we see that local politicians around find good ways to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1392	Left-wing government must help municipalities focus more on prevention within the elderly care service. That is what is behind the proposals that are being made today. A proposal for simple janitorial services is, in the Left's view, an important element in such a prevention. Preventing this proposal will be socially beneficial, while enabling older people to live a safe and dignified life in their own homes any longer. As others have pointed out in the debate today, we can refer to social services laws, and we can also show that the municipalities are responsible. Clearly, there's no other view, but the point is that we know that the differences between municipalities are very large, and that the potential for this service provision is so little exploited. Therefore, Left believes that the Government should contribute to the organisation and not least focus on an action that will have a major impact on the elderly, who will build the longest possible home, while at the same time being a good and sensible social economy. It is just as others have said here, that in the care report there was a plural comment, which has been included in the setting on page 1, which just states that strengthening the provision of help for simple daily tasks would be a tool to prevent femoral fractures and other falls that affect many older people in the world. I just have to say that I'm very happy that a group committee in this case reinforces this point of view and says, ‘it is of great importance to prevent injuries and accidents among older people and to facilitate the possibility of older people living in owner-occupied dwellings for as long as they wish.’ [[...]] [[...]] It was a quote from the setting. Accidents are serious and can simply lead to death. When we know that one third of all deaths resulting from accidents are accidents in people over 80 years of age, I think everyone should have a lot of attention on the issue. The risk of lasting help dependence is also high in the event of a breach resulting from the fall. Moreover, we know that all accidents with death followed by accidents occur in the elderly's own homes. This emphasizes that the matter we are now discussing needs a higher priority. There is a lot to do when you're young and healthy, but worse when you're old and weak. If you want to change a light bulb, are old and a little dizzy and have to go up on a crack, it's quick to fall down and break your lower neck – it's mostly the one that's going to happen. After a femur break, there's a hospital and then a hospital, maybe for the rest of your life. The main point of the Left’s proposal is to focus on the fact that relatively simple measures can contribute to better life for many older people, while at the same time providing a benefit to society. In some municipalities, such simple measures have been implemented with great success. The representative of the Skjäla showed up at some point. I can refer specifically to Harstad, e.g. For the period 1988-93, it was found that in the case of a fall in the world of over 65 years of age, there was a decline of 26 pst. In winter, after some measures, sands, etc., the fall rate was reduced by 49 pst. There are some who have our good ones, but there are relatively few who have really taken this opportunity out. These measures included: the fact that the actual pensioners, i.e. amateur watchmasters, carried out individual installation work for the other elderly, and the pensioner service provided sand to the elderly, to strew stairs and entrance lots. We also read about other municipalities, e.g. Us in the Østerdalen, who have had similar projects, with equal success. Thus, there is no doubt that simple measures contribute to large reductions in bone fractures among the elderly. Our input in this matter is that the focus on such simple actions is generally too limited. Therefore, we believe that the Government should be a stronger driver towards the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1416	Many municipalities already offer their own home janitor or ambulatory janitor services as part of their home services. The social services of local authorities shall include, inter alia: include practical assistance for those who have a particular need for assistance because of illness, disability and age, or for other reasons. If the user fulfils the conditions of the social service law and needs practical assistance, the services will normally also include watchmaster services. However, it is up to each municipality to organise this service provision. Like the proposers and the speakers I have so far heard, I am also concerned with good prevention measures that can ensure that older people can stay at home for as long as possible and that can prevent older people from being admitted to institutions before it is necessary. It is common to assume that well-developed home services such as home care, home care, home care, home care, etc., and day-care services, help to prevent or postpone accommodation in an institution. We know that the government's efforts to strengthen the local economy have resulted in a record of care services in municipalities. Our objective for this strengthening has been to provide more hands in the care sector and to facilitate a wider range of professionals. It appears that municipalities are now recruiting professional groups that have previously been poorly represented, due to poor local economy. Such professional groups contribute to ensuring good activity provision and strengthening the prevention perspective. The representative of Ludvigsen is quite right that today’s senior population shows a clear trend towards increased mobility. Many people want to move from one-stop homes and terraced houses to different types of block construction and housing where there is access to service services. It also shows Ivar Brevik and Lene Schmidt in the NIBR report ‘Such will older people live’. The reasons for moving are, as we know, mostly too much work on housing and gardening, and the housing is poorly adapted to disability. Naturally, the wishes go in the direction of centrally located dwellings, with easy access from the car to the entrance door, and close to cultural activities, park facilities and social networks, to mention something. In many cities and larger municipalities, residential facilities are now being built with such service functions, such as: manned reception and watchkeeping services. We see that many older people realize their housing needs and move to homes that have these qualities. As you know, the Government has announced a new investment grant for new health care facilities and housing. The target group for this scheme is people in need of happy care services. In connection with residences with lucky day services, it will almost always be a watchman's order.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1435	The prevention perspective is also important in the area of care for the elderly, which was addressed by the Council of State. The size has also heard of the 18 billion DKK in the increased framework for municipalities, including the tax intake. It's also determined, so we're not going to spend that much time on it. For a time, the Progress Party promoted a proposal related to domestic health care outreach activities in the municipalities in order to find out at an early stage what is involved in home planning, the use of medicines, the appearance of the home, blood pressure measurement, etc., precisely in view of the prevention aspect. This was introduced as a pilot scheme in some municipalities. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State aware that a thorough evaluation of this project has now been carried out, and will the Council of State now ensure that this will continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1442	Firstly, with regard to the amount and how much more municipalities have received, the municipalities will probably be left with more than 18 billion kroner plus by the end of this year. Let's not have a long discussion about it, but at least they've got a lot more money. This leads to the fact that it is now employed, for example. more activists and the type of help that can strengthen day-to-day provision, and that is good. With regard to the question of outreach activities and the evaluation of them, I dare not answer that right now, but of course I will check that out. I think it's interesting with the trials that have been done, but I don't know all the results of them. We also know that there is different organisation around the municipalities. So I'll check how the evaluation goes. The government also seems to be interesting to look at those kinds of solutions, but in general, we think that the sense is fairly equally distributed, so that here it can be organised as those who live near the user think is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1449	I wanted to get back to the economy here. According to the statistics, there were 78 000 older than 80 years of age in 2005 who were recipients of home care services, and in the institution it was reported that there were 31,000 over 80 years of age – so there is a difference here of 47 000. That means there's a big latent demand for institutions. I'm sure the Council of State is aware of this. We know that an average hospitalization site costs NOK 560,000 – that’s a number we’ve operated on – and if we can avoid building and operating, for example. 2 000 sick homes by means of simple measures that we have outlined in our proposal, it will be a huge economic return. We want to talk about 2,000 times $560,000, and at least it's going to be over $1 billion. So my question to the Council of State is: Shouldn't harm prevention among the elderly, for example. by means of the measures we have outlined, get more attention from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1458	In the case of prevention, attention has also been paid to older people, not least in the recent care report addressed by the Stortinget, on which the representative has been most closely involved. How to organise this, we think we have to be up to the municipalities. But as I tried to say something about it in my main post, there are many offers of watchmaster services, and we also have a social service law that says something about it, if the user needs it. It is, of course, our task to ensure that the municipalities actually follow the laws and regulations that apply. I believe that with the local economy that has now been set up, there will also be much greater opportunities to do even more in terms of damage prevention. I fully agree with the representative, Ludvigsen, that we have to make it possible for the elderly to stay at home for as long as possible. We will also be able, through the new investment grant that comes from next year, to contribute not only to building nursing homes but also to building more nursing homes and lifts in blocks, which means that people can actually live at home longer than what is for some people today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1465	I want to ask the Council of State about this with the wit being equally distributed. I'm sure that's right. At the same time, there are very different priorities from the municipality to the municipality also in the care of the elderly, whether in the field of security or other good offers. Today, the Christian People's Party has made a proposal for a guarantee of dignity for the elderly – I will not, of course, ask the Council of State what she thinks about it. But there is something about how we can achieve equivalence when we are not – at least not the Government – willing to link it up to measures, good suggestions, to a kind of right for the individual elderly, but just trust that local self-government in a way distributes the sense equally and does the same for all. We see time and time again that that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1472	I disagree with the representative, Mr. Davøy, who says that the government believes that only the municipalities should think anything about this. That's wrong. We have a whole series of laws that will apply to each and of course we're trying to watch being followed up in practice. In the message for which Davøy was the case rapporteur, the care message, we have also announced a concrete plan on how this should be followed up in the future. We will combine it with more money for the municipalities so that it can be followed up with further concrete measures, as we have announced. What is also gratifying to see is that most of the increased allocation to the municipal economy has gone to care for the municipalities, and much of it has just gone to the care of the elderly. It seems to me that the wit is somewhat equally distributed, and that the municipalities do what they think is most important in their municipalities. I'm very happy about that. This government intends to continue giving money to the municipalities, so that they can do so further. But of course we're going to make sure from the state that we also do it to ensure that all the older people who need it, dignity in the offer they're going to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1479	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1497	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to one lot. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who subscribe to lists of numbers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1506	The proposers André N. Skjelstad and Gunvald Ludvigsen promote in this document No. 8:66 proposal that provision should be made to enable parents with disabled children to receive a care allowance limited up to 80 pst. of 6 G. It is a unanimous committee which, among other things, in its comments. indicates that the municipalities are currently obliged to provide care pay funds in their budgets and cannot refuse an application because this has not been done. On the other hand, municipalities may place a certain emphasis on their own economy in the assessment of whether care pay is to be provided in the individual case. We are still seeing examples of large differences between municipalities in terms of pay for care. It can vary by thousands of dollars from municipality to municipality in similar cases. This is not sustainable because we are actually citizens of the same country and should be entitled to the same rights relating to the welfare schemes that we are talking about here. It is also very important to note what a majority – all with the exception of the government parties – also says in their comments, which reads as follows: ‘The majority refers to large differences from municipality to municipality and does not consider this to be satisfactory.’ If we actually think that this is not satisfactory, we have to do something about it. Proposals must be made for amendments, or at least support the proposals that have been made. There is a shared committee in this matter. The majority goes in to attach the matter to the minutes. But then there are also two other proposals, and I am referring to proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal is that we can't just take out one group and say that this group is going to be satisfied now, and then we'll look at the other groups at a later stage. When we first do this job and look at the care pay problem, it must be right for us to value others as high as this group. I can mention this with a spouse who cares for her spouse, and this with children who care for their parents. There are a number of others that should also be able to come under this scheme, and then it's just wrong to take out a special group, even if – and I stress it – this is a group that has it very tough. It's a big challenge. You have a hard time every day trying to get the ends to meet, while taking care of your disabled child. But this also applies to others. So it's not to be reduced for this group that we are now proposing a comprehensive review of the care pay scheme, so that equal cases are treated equally regardless of the residence address of the amount of the care pay. The only thing is that we have to see everything in one context. We need to evaluate also the other groups that receive care pay, and not just take out one. I fear that if that happens, it will be with it, and then it will take a long time before the others come after it. The Progress Party cannot accept that. We hope that more people can join our proposal, because it is high time to look at the care pay problem in general. We have to get rid of the differences related to the address of residence. It is that in one municipality you get a certain amount of care pay, but if you just move across the municipal border, which we have also seen in the media, you can get several thousand dollars more in care pay. This can't actually continue. It is not worthy of the inhabitants. The progress party has a different system – it's not going under the chair. The Progress Party wants the state to take over the financial linked to the care wage, so that we can just get equal treatment. Until that happens, I hope at least that this room can vote in favour and support a proposal for an overall review. Then at least we get the case back again, and we get to evaluate all the groups together and not just one group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1530	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1533	Parents with disabled children have a very demanding everyday life, often with very stressful care tasks. I don't think there's any disagreement that we all have a responsibility to make the day easier for these families. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that care pay alone is not a good enough instrument. Care pay alone must not have the effect that parents, often mothers, feel compelled to leave their ordinary job of having full-time work with their own children. Although many, especially mothers, have reduced working time in order to care for domestic tasks, it is probably very important that it is possible to combine these tasks. Very many people say that the job outside the home is essential for the tasks that have to be done at home. It's a demanding transition for the families who have a disabled child. It is important that they are given the opportunity to participate in social and work life in the same way as families with disabled children. This has nothing to do with the fact that we do not want the best possible everyday life for all parents with disabled children. But it is also important to have a gender perspective. It's still the case that mothers often have the heaviest problems at home. It has been a short time since we in the Chamber dealt with the care message. In the message, families with disabled children were a theme. In the context of that communication, the Committee has highlighted the major challenges facing these families. In addition to being both parents and caregivers, a part of life is meeting activities, writing applications, obtaining documentation from various help offices, etc. Medical visits, visits to physiotherapists and controls often take much of the day to these parents. It is very important for us in the Workers' Party that there is still a strong focus on relief and support contacts, but also on care allowance and pay when it can help to care for relatives who are responsible for family members with care needs. It is important to stress, as the Committee has done in this matter, that municipalities are today obliged to set aside funds for care pay in their budgets. But the municipality can focus on its own economy in the assessment of what is to be paid for care. As a parallel to the previous case, I would like to say that I agree with the representative Ludvigsen that it is very important that the municipalities focus on the challenges we face in relation to this group, too, so that there is the greatest possible equality, regardless of which municipality you live in. It is the Minister for Labour and Inclusion that coordinates the follow-up to the strategy plan now for families with children with disabilities. A number of actions related to that plan are implemented by several ministries. I feel that there is something of the representative Harald T. Nesvik is calling for in his proposal. We aim for children with disabilities and their families to have the same opportunities for an independent and active life. The government has announced their intention of revising the strategy plan in this area during this year. That is why we do not support the proposal of the Progress Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1552	Initially, I would like to draw attention to a small change. In the event of a mistake, the right has not been included in the majority vote which recommends that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. It's going to be right there. Family members and other relatives who care for their loved ones make significant efforts both for their family and for society. From a socio-economic point of view, it would be appropriate to facilitate the provision of such care without suffering financial problems or other additional burdens on the respondent. The right fully agrees with the proposers that parents with disabled children should have a good pay for care and that whether or not to receive a care allowance should not be dependent on the municipality in which they live. We know that parents who have disabled children, many of whom have been involved, have a great responsibility for care, and that they face many obstacles. As a result, many also face difficulties in combining demanding care tasks with the demands and expectations of the labour market. There are challenges at many levels both practical and social as well as economic. Right-wing believes it is important that we find good solutions to this challenge, and I agree that improved pay for care is one of several instruments. Many are currently covered by this scheme and are using the care pay system. There is also reason to believe that even more should be covered by the scheme. There may be different reasons why you want to be home for a shorter or longer period to take care of your loved ones. Therefore, a narrowing in relation to functional requirements or diagnosis is not appropriate from our point of view. This is why it is right and important to look at how we can make the system better and more effective – not only for parents with disabled children, but also for others who have family care tasks. I would therefore like to refer to the proposal that has been made by the Right in Stortinget, Document No. 8:88 for 2006-2007, where we are just asking the Stortingen to ask the Government to: ‘investigate and propose ways in which the person carrying out the necessary care tasks for his or her loved ones can be guaranteed the right to freedom from work’. In addition, we ask the Stortinget to ask the Government to: «investigate and propose ways in which the person carrying out the necessary care work can be guaranteed income for his/her living». We're concerned with care pay, but not just that. There may be more instruments, and it is important that we look at the whole area and the whole scheme in order to facilitate a flexible system for both parents and caregivers. Finally, I would just like to repeat that we are in favour of the vote on the motion for a resolution to annex the proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1580	Families with disabled children need the help they need to get as normal a day of work as possible, with the possibility of both family life and working life. In an interpellation in the United Kingdom in January this year, the Christian People's Party raised the matter with Minister of Health and Care Sylvia Brustad. In particular, we asked if the Council of State will ensure that in all municipalities there is a coordinator for families with disabled children who can help parents process reactions and get help to get answers to the questions that arise when you have a child who is not like everyone else. Aid to parents in such a situation is of great importance. The coordinator of the municipality should have an overview and information of the services that the municipality can offer to the family, be helpful in filling in applications and in obtaining the necessary documentation, coordinating group meetings and ensuring that an individual plan becomes a reality. It is unnecessary to use resources that all parents should address all of this even when many issues are initially similar. Common for families with disabled children is that everyday life is often marked by burdensome care. One parent is often in a part-time or full-time job at home because of the child’s great need for help and because it is difficult to combine family life with working life. Many spend a lot of time writing and following up applications and complaints, obtaining professional documentation from various help offices and participating in extensive meeting activities with those who are to provide help to the family. The coordination of services and follow-up and medical checks may, for some, be a full-day job in itself. Increased use of relief, contact with support, pay for care and care may help to care for relatives responsible for family members with care needs. It may also help to maintain and strengthen this effort. The Bondevik II Government presented the ‘Strategic Plan for families with disabled children’. One of its activities was to look at coordination of care pay, care allowance and welfare benefits. It is an important point that those in work still have the opportunity to do so, even if they have a disabled child. At the same time, the aid schemes must not be limited to those in work. The freedom of choice of parents must be guaranteed, and therefore it must still be possible to receive pay for care, even if you are not at work outside the home. Care pay is a system that allows parents and relatives to take care of their disabled and needy themselves. The Christian People's Party therefore supports a review of the care pay system in terms of equal treatment and the amount of care pay. We also believe that it must be organised for the public to promise the burdensome care of the parents and the relatives, so that they have the opportunity to live a more normal life, with a good balance between family life and working life. It is possible within a lot of today's legislation, while we see that some changes should be made. In the past, the Christian People's Party has also proposed that in cases where caring family members die, there should be an opportunity for the family to maintain pay for care and any other financial subsidy for up to three months after, for example, a disabled child dies. In such cases, care pay should give entitlement to unemployment benefits. ‘Shared joy is double joy, shared sorrow is half grief. ‘ Parents with disabled children should share the burden with a disabled child with others and should have the joy of having a special family member with others. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Christian People's Party supports the minority proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1603	The proposers wish to provide parents with disabled children with better financial conditions through a care pay scheme that is different from that of other care employees. As we have heard before, the municipalities today have an obligation in their budgets to set aside funds for care pay. The Community may decide on the type of service to be chosen when the major needs of care are to be met. It is also right, as many people say, that there are large differences in the level of care pay from municipality to municipality, and also that the level of care pay varies. It is important to stress that care pay is one of several benefits, nor is it easy to compare them immediately, and to say that there is a great deal of discrimination in overall benefits, from one municipality to another, because, therefore, care pay is only one scheme among several to ensure that parents with disabled children are guaranteed reasonable arrangements. The Government Declaration states that the Government will ‘strengthen the care pay system’. For this reason, the Centre Party will refer to the remark of the Government Parties that a Working Party chaired by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion will present proposals for action in order to better combine professional participation with care for the closest relatives. All schemes will be assessed there. We've got a care allowance. We have the aid scheme, provisions on leave, and we have provisions on care pay, as I mentioned earlier. The work that this group is working on is part of a strategy plan to help children with disabilities and their families have the same opportunity for an independent and active life. It's an important goal. So the centre party does not reject the proposal, but we think it is important to see the overall picture of the situation for families with children with disabilities, and not care pay in isolation. Therefore, we will await the work of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1616	What I'm hearing from the other representatives here is that a broad consensus exists, and that this is a group that needs help. Everyone is probably aware that families with disabled children have a tough everyday life. The left’s proposal means that parents who want to take care of their young should receive a well - arranged, well - arranged assistance and a care allowance from which it is possible to live. We have all the stories about people we know who are struggling in everyday life and almost giving up, because the care tasks are choking them. I just have to say that I am pleased with what has been expressed by representatives from other parties about the intention of the proposal for a care allowance for parents with disabled children. We know that there are a lot of people who are struggling in our society in different ways, and that there are a lot of people who could have been paying for the care they do. So it's said that care pay is a system that's in use. I would at least claim that she is in little use. Distributions that have been made indicate that care pay is less and less in use. What it might have been interesting to know was how much money a user spends around in Norwegian municipalities for care pay. I don't think it's good to find the number, because, as far as I understand, it's quite incomprehensible. When we're going to discuss this important topic, we should at least have a system where we can figure out what we're talking about, and what means we're using. One can't just refer to these 18 billion, or whatever it is. I think we have to deal with this, because there are a lot of people who belong to care pay and think they have a right. When they come to the municipality and search, they simply get rejected. At least I've heard from a lot of people. I would like to conclude that there is a very different level of care pay, and so many people get a discount. It's an unknown system, and I also think it's a big bureaucracy. For the left, it's always a point to find solutions that are good for the individual and for the individual family, not least in an unbureaucratic way. We know that those who choose to get home with disabled children also need something to live with. We've been thanking a system to ensure that people get equal pay across the country. The left is happy that a person lives very different lives, and that the freedom to do this is fundamental to every human being. But we know that families with disabled children today do not have that freedom. Six out of ten women with disabled children do well to be home. For those who want to do so, good arrangements should be made for them. But of course, we don't want this to delay the construction of good institutions or other forms of organized supply, not at all. It is important that the systems work as neutrally as possible. Many parents don't want to be home, as they have said. They'll get into work, and that's a possibility we obviously also have to provide, so that people can be at work. At least it is sad to say that some parents today deliberately move to good municipalities, municipalities that have better solutions, hoping to improve the situation for their children and themselves. Now the representative said that it's hard to compare, because we have care money and I don't know what. But one thing is certain, and that's that those who wear the shoe can compare. They don't move for no reason to move. So it's obvious that these are different offers, and it's going to be perceived as peculiarly unimaginable. As I mentioned earlier, we think that a care pay scheme for families with disabled children is a simplification reform that will make everyday life easier, so that parents escape some of the difficulties that the system is putting up with today. We want to give parents who are at home with disabled children a decent wage to live with. We had hoped that the Government would commit itself to setting a minimum standard that was equal across the country. I take up the Left's proposal, No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1639	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1642	The government is also committed to facilitating the care of close relatives who wish to do so. There is then no doubt that care pay is one possible important tool. Parents with severe disabilities are an important and vulnerable target group. I know that many of these families are doing a lot of work, and that many people sometimes experience it as very demanding to do the heavy care tasks. We have to take the responsibility we have to get overall and good solutions adapted to each family and family. It is an important objective that people who have extra burdensome care tasks should not be overburdened, should not lose income in relation to other families, and should not be fully or partially pushed out of work. We are committed to finding solutions where we can take care of care efforts from the relatives. It is also known to be an important issue in the follow-up to the call for proposals on future care services. As is well known, care pay is currently a benefit that may come at the top of normal labour or social security income. Care pay may compensate for any loss of labour income, but care pay is not a system that provides individual entitlement to compensation for any loss of earnings. As you know, the municipality is responsible for financing services for those in need of care. The municipality is not responsible for replacing lost labour income for caregivers. There is a lot to be done when municipalities decide what kind of services to provide to individuals under the social services law. There may well be questions of the type and degree of need, and there may be family, work and housing situations and the ability, willingness and ability of relatives to provide care and care. It will therefore vary whether or not to pay care and, if so, how much. I believe it is very important that parents of disabled children have good and predictable services to offer. It is also very important that these parents have predictable and sound income. Not least these are the mothers of these kids. Research shows that mothers of disabled children do not participate in working life to the same extent as other mothers. We want to help make sure that these families also have a real opportunity to choose to participate in the labour market in the same way as other parents. Then we have to see the care pay system in the context of childcare services, school leisure arrangements, municipal care services, the care scheme in the social security system and the leave provisions of the Work Environment Act. These are questions that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, the Minister of Knowledge and I now cooperate on. Here we will also look at the situation of close relatives who care for people over 18 years of age. In other words, we are now also reviewing whether it should be possible to extend the system of leave arrangements in cases where one has heavy care tasks, whether for young people or for other close relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1664	Int. S. No 150 for 2006-2007 in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006 the Government Parties stated that they: ‘the Government assessed the possibility of establishing a transitional income hedge scheme and related qualification measures for those who lack income and qualifications to get into work after long-term care efforts towards relatives’. This is important to put in place those who make an effort to enable them to move forward in retrospect. My question to the Council of State is, When can such an investigation be available, so that action can be taken in place, and so that you have that security? Int. S. No 249 members of the Government Parties write the following: ‘These members will refer to the Soria Moria statement that the Government will strengthen the care pay system.’ Is the Government thinking here only of a continuation of today's system, or will a government funding mechanism be considered in line with care, health, etc., which are state financial instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1681	As I also said in my main post, we are in the process of reviewing different types of arrangements aimed at people who have close families with heavy help needs, among other things. care pay. I can immediately say that the government has no plans to state it, but we are also concerned about the fact that the representative Nesvik referred to in his statement, that there are very wide variations between some municipalities. It may have good explanations, as the representative Mr Schjellaa said, but it is not always certain that it does. We're going through all of this now. When the investigation will be available, I do not dare to promise – at least not exactly what date – but we are working on this in these days, and I hope that we will be able to get far in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1686	I understand the main posts of the Council of State so that we're quite a few in the facts, that here we have an area where effort is needed. The councils were probably also involved in this, but at least I mean that six out of ten mothers end up in their profession or reduce their working hours when they have a disabled child, while only 8 pst. by the fathers change their job situation. As the children get older, the difference in disfavor of the mothers of disabled children increases. At least think the Left that this can't be a willful development. I know that the councils are also busy with equality. Does the Council not believe that a reasonable wage of care for parents with disabled children in addition to their primary purpose would be a good contribution to gender equality in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1693	I mean absolutely that care pay in given situations is a good solution, but it has to be assessed individually what to do with offering otherwise, and what best suits each family. I also agree with the representative, Mr Ludvigsen, that it is a paradox, or what one would call it, that it is largely the women who lose their ties with the world of work – if not completely, so at least a long way to go. The government is particularly concerned about this. We are concerned that everyone must have the opportunity to take care of their children or their parents in given situations, and at the same time have the opportunity to maintain the link with the labour market. That is the background to the reviews we now have of care pay and other types of services, but also of leave schemes, which I know very many people think about, for example. where young people are severely injured in accidents and thereby become disabled, and where there is no possibility of setting up. We're now going through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1700	I agree with the Council of State that we need to look at all the arrangements that exist today, that we need to take a complete review and see how we can find good and flexible solutions, and that there needs to be an individual assessment. As I mentioned in my post, the Right has promoted a proposal to investigate how the person who carries out the necessary care tasks for his or her loved ones can be guaranteed the right to freedom from work, and I could imagine hearing the Council of State's assessment of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1705	I think the representative Sjøli understands that I can't answer this right now, but it definitely goes into what the government is assessing: How are we going to make sure that parents can get off the job – with pay – to take care of some of their closest ones in critical situations or in times where it is necessary? What the Right believes about it, we've got into the post that the representative here refers to, and we want to have it with us, of course, in our assessment. I feel that there is no disagreement about finding arrangements that are more flexible than some people feel on the body that today's arrangements are.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1710	I have a question to the Council of State about this which I was also concerned with in my post, that the support schemes should not only apply to those who are working. When we discuss this, the Government places very great emphasis on it in every context, I think it should apply to people who are at work. And better support schemes for them are important. However, my question is whether the Council of State can confirm that the current review will also apply to others. For various reasons it is that perhaps not everyone will be at work when you are given care tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1715	I can confirm that we are going through all aspects of the matter, including for those who are not in the working life. But it is probably a fact that most — at least initially — are in the workplace, and that it is a challenge when you have disabled children, and perhaps particularly very disabled children, that mothers remain at home, while some of them may have wanted to have some connection with the working life. So we have to make one also have it, and I want to confirm that we're going through all sides of it, in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1720	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1736	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to this should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1745	Cancer, as the proposers point to, is a widespread public disease, and projections show that the incidence will increase in the years to come. More than 173,000 people in Norway have or have had cancer. Annually, approx. 24 000 people, and approx. 10,000 die from cancer. In 2020, this figure will have increased by approx. 25 pst., mainly because cancer most often affects older people, which represents an increasing proportion of the population. Behind these hard facts, there are many people, both patients and relatives, who experience that life is not what they wanted. Fortunately, more and more people can be cured and saved, not least because cancer research provides better opportunities for early diagnosis and effective treatment. National cancer plan meant a public strengthening of the cancer area by over 2 billion kroner. [[1999–2003]] The main objectives of the cancer plan were to reduce the number of new cancer cases through a long-term prevention strategy and to improve the supply of diagnostics and treatment. Within the scope of the plan, 100 million were earmarked. kr for cancer research over a five-year period. The Co-operation Board took the initiative to continue this work and set up a working group that presented its recommendations in 2004. Minister of Health and Health, Brustad, has been following this up in a commendable manner and has presented a new cancer strategy for the period 2006-2009. An overall committee shares the proposalers' intention to ensure increased commitment to cancer research in the years ahead. It is emphasised that the focus on research in general and medical research needs to be strengthened in particular. Public funding for research — including cancer research — is channelled from different departments to universities, underlying bodies, regional health firms and Norwegian Research Councils. The funds allocated under the cancer plan have been continued through a strategic commitment to cancer research under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council. In the voluntary sector, the Cancer Association is a very large contributor to cancer research, with about a quarter. 110 million. kr annually. It is also researched in the pharmaceutical industry, primarily in clinical trials. I would also like to point out that there is an exciting collaboration between public and private actors in the direction of Oslo Cancer Cluster. When the proposal of the Progress Party does not receive a majority, it is because the other parties do not see the proposed measure as the right instrument to ensure continued high and increased commitment to cancer research. Such a commitment should be channelled through regular sources of funding, such as: through the Research Council or regional health establishments. This will ensure that the funds are used where they are considered to be most useful as assessed on a professional basis. Many non-governmental organisations are financially affected by the new system of monopoly on the operation of slot machines. The Co-operation Board therefore proposed a compensation scheme for voluntary organisations. Representatives of all opposition parties have also promoted a proposal for a better framework for non-governmental organisations, including better economic operating conditions. However, it is important that voluntary organisations are treated in an equivalent manner. Therefore, compensation schemes should not be designed in such a way as to serve only certain purposes and associations. Finally, I would like to point out that in 2004, the Norwegian Research Council carried out an evaluation showing that there are several research communities in Norway that are important contributors to international cancer research. The Register of Cancer plays an important role in these good results. Many key professionals have stressed that close cooperation between the Kreftregister and the clinical research communities is essential for the success of Norwegian cancer research. Both professionals and elected representatives are now concerned that the register should be reorganised and subject to the Public Health Institute. While criticism of administrative aspects has been raised in the activities of the registry, this should not be used as an agenda for a reorganisation that will weaken cancer research in Norway and internationally. I would like to ask the Council of State to note that the entire Committee is behind a comment which makes reference to the unanimous support of the Social Committee in the 2001-2002 budgetary position for the purpose of ensuring that the Register of Cancer is a unit within the Radium Hospital. An overall health and care committee requires that cancer research is also ensured in the future, both financially and organisationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1760	The background to the proposal to maintain the level of cancer research grants in Norway is the Stortinget decision to grant Norwegian Typing the exclusive right to operate slot machines. Gambling addiction has become a serious social problem that needs to be addressed by authorities. From 2001 to 2005, turnover in the automatic market increased dramatically, from DKK 8.5 billion in 2001 to DKK 27 billion in 2005. In the wake of such an explosive waste growth, severe social tragedies followed, with depression, disintegrating families and people who lost homes and homes. This was part of the background that Stortinget decided in 2003 to grant Norwegian Typing AS the exclusive right to the vending machines. At the same time, Stortinget did not advocate any ban on vending machines during processing in 2003. The experience of prohibitions is negative, while it is important to ensure that organisations such as the Cancer Association avoid serious operational problems. With the reform, voluntary organisations will lose SEK 2.3 billion in automatic receipts. Nevertheless, they have given support to the clean-up process. They have prepared for lower income through the construction of funds and reserves. During this major period, the Government has introduced a ban on banknotes, a tax on the machines, increased funding for research and relief measures, supported the organisations for the gambling addicts and the relatives, and promoted several other measures to limit gambling. The result is that turnover fell for the first time in 2006 and 2007 and social problems were reduced. I would like to agree with the rapporteurs' assessment of the importance of cancer research and the importance of the work being done, among other things. by the Cancer Association. Cancer is a serious, tragic and creepy disease that affects a large proportion of the population during life and is one of the most common causes of death in Norway. The number of cancer cases is increasing, mainly because life expectancy has increased, but not only because of it. Research on treatment methods and treatment outcomes is essential to ensure that Norway is at the forefront of cancer treatment, so that as much as possible survives. We need to constantly take the best results and facilitate the transfer of the best treatment methods to all hospitals and departments. In this, cancer research plays a crucial role. The Committee notes that public efforts in the field of research in general and medical research should be strengthened in particular. At the same time, the majority of the Committee considers that it is natural to ensure an equivalent income base for all voluntary and humanitarian organisations losing automated revenues. There are many humanitarian and non-governmental organisations that need to relocate their activities in the light of Norwegian Typing’s exclusive right to operate slot machines. The Committee further points out that the Government has notified a major communication on the framework conditions for voluntary activities. This shall be submitted to the Stortinget during 2007. It's been ten years since the government of Jagland made such a announcement about the relationship between non-governmental organisations and the state, a message that was supplemented by the government of Bondevik the following year. Minister of Culture and the Church Trond Giske has said that this will be a cross-sectoral communication that will both describe the voluntary sector and highlight the political course for the public role towards volunteers. Voluntary organisations will be involved in this work through their cooperation body Freewill Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1786	Cancer is still a disease that affects more and more, but fortunately, research has led to ever better treatment methods that lead to the survival of more people. There are still new medicines and treatments with fewer side effects. But the word "cancer" is still associated with a lot of suffering, which in many cases still leads to an premature death. Much remains of research and knowledge before all causes of cancer are known, and before adverse treatment methods are available that eliminate the disease. When the committee visited the Cancer Association earlier this year, we were informed of the dramatic consequences of the disappearance of the automatic revenues. It was just the Progress Party that really reacted when that information came. The Cancer Association has cut 50 million. kr on the operation after a majority of the Stortinge decided to take away the automatic receipts. Half of the loss directly affects cancer research in Norway. The cut will slow down a research that is already getting far less than desirable. ‘All universities and hospitals with cancer wards will notice it.’ This pronounced Professor Øystein Bruserud at the Hematological Section of the Haukeland University Hospital. The research community believes that the state has to go in and replace the loss. That is also the view of the Progress Party. Major breakthroughs in cancer research mean that we are now facing entirely new opportunities to treat the disease. In the magazine Research No. 4 2006 there was still great optimism to trace at one of our well-known researchers, Krauss. He said that stem cell technology is going to be incredibly central in the future, and he had great faith that the Government would make a significant effort in this area. He sees the importance of stem cell research, and expects that it will be very exciting in terms of legislation and funding in the future. What is now happening, with dramatic cuts in the funding of cancer research, can well be called tragic rather than exciting. If we are to hope that Norway will get more on the road internationally and have the opportunity to attract international top researchers to this field, sufficient funds must be made available, and there must be some predictability in relation to the amount to be invested in this type of research. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all outside the Progress Party, it is natural to ensure an equivalent income base for all voluntary and humanitarian organisations and does not consider it appropriate to provide specific compensation schemes. What is equivalent, and why was this not done before the revenue disappeared? You have to do things in the right order if you're not going to have dramatic consequences. The Committee agrees that public efforts in the field of research in general and medical research should be strengthened in particular, but when little is said about it. For the Progress Party, we are talking about a strengthening in addition to the 2/3 of funding that the Cancer Association has taken responsibility for funding, so that not only the public part is strengthened, but cancer research is strengthened overall. As long as the Cancer Association has taken responsibility for funding a total of 2/3 in addition to what is funded by the pharmaceutical industry, lost gambling revenue will clearly have a major impact on research. Norway does not have any financial problems in strengthening research in this area. It's only about political goodwill, and it's urgent. In fact, it is not possible to take any rest cuts in research. Such a cutting of rest, as several have said before me, is simply an error. This is about the fact that a rich country such as Norway must also take responsibility for one of the world’s most serious and fatal diseases seriously. This responsibility cannot be dismissed by the Storting. When the Stortinget takes a decision that removes the economic basis for cancer research, it must be replaced immediately. The Progress Party believes it is an important public responsibility to contribute to the growth of competences and research into major public diseases and it is difficult to see that it is appropriate to accept a reduction in the level of cancer research. We believe that this should have been added to an escalation and not a cut. Cancer research should be one of the most important areas of activity in the coming years, and the Cancer Association should therefore receive full compensation for income so that they can continue their valuable work in the fight against cancer. Therefore, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to include the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1812	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1815	No one should be in doubt that the Christian People's Party has had a burning commitment to help people who struggle with gambling addiction. Part of this help must be to remove the slot machines so that you do not pass machines when shopping or doing other everyday activities. Many non-governmental organisations have high incomes from slot machines, including the Cancer Association. However, when it became clear how many are affected by gambling problems, an agreement was reached in 2003 between the large voluntary organisations and the state to ensure control of the vending machines while ensuring that voluntary organisations receive a reasonable and predictable government grant. Now that we see that the social policy consequences of the slot machines have become even greater than in 2003, and that as many as 70 000 are addicted to gambling, the Christian People's Party believes that a state monopoly is a too weak instrument. Nevertheless, we will maintain the obligation to provide a good framework for voluntary teams and organisations. We believe that the debate on the framework conditions for volunteering should be taken independently of the debate on slot machines, and we therefore refer to Document No. 8:107 for 2005-2006, where we, together with the other opposition parties, ask the Government to provide a big message reviewing the framework conditions of the voluntary organisations, focusing among others. on the availability of free resources, the review of income opportunities, VAT legislation and tax exemptions on gifts for voluntary purposes. The Christian People's Party believes that the voluntary sector should receive more funding from the state budget than income from slot machines. The problem in this case is the combination of income coming from a vulnerable group, while income being used for highly idealistic purposes. One of these purposes is cancer research. As a result of an ageing population, the number of cancer cases will increase in the years to come. That's 26 pst. the expected increase in cancer by 2020 compared to 2001. Life-style factors such as overweight, low physical activity and tobacco smoking are also among factors that explain the rise in cancer. ==References== 10,500 people die of cancer every year. There are great opportunities to help many people as a result of betting just on cancer research. We are committed to facilitating research into health in general and cancer in particular. Norway has a high potential to invest in the development of new drugs and new forms of treatment. We have good opportunities, including: as a result of a high level of knowledge in the population, and we have good access to biological resources. Biotechnological research and development can produce just new medicines and treatments that can help sick people. Searching for valuable substances in nature can be exploited better. I would like to mention bio-prospecting, i.e. searching for organisms, mechanisms, molecules and genes for commercial exploitation. It could be important. For example, new research shows that different cancer cultures die when they are exposed to substances found in the flower revevessels. Revebelle is notorious for its toxicity, but has a long tradition in folk medicine. It has already been used in the treatment of heart failure, but may contain several options. This is one example. The Christian People's Party does not consider it appropriate to introduce specific compensation schemes for some associations or purposes based on current decisions in this area, but meets increased research efforts based on favourable assumptions for success in the fight against cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1832	Cancer research is important, and the Center Party also believes that cancer research needs to be strengthened. A number of cancers have been the subject of research, which has led to new discoveries, and thus to new drugs and new treatments. So there's no doubt that cancer research is an area where there's a lot of work going on today, and that there's going to be a lot of work going on in the years to come. Today, cancer research is funded through public funds from the Research Council, through health businesses, non-governmental organisations such as the Cancer Association, for example, and not least the pharmaceutical industry. Once Norwegian Typing has received the monopoly of gambling, non-governmental organisations need to change and find new sources of income. It is natural for the Centre Party to ensure an equivalent income base for all voluntary and humanitarian organisations. The Party considers that it is not entitled to introduce specific compensation schemes for special purposes and therefore does not support the proposal in the document.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1841	Researching cancer to develop even better treatments and drugs is very important. Medical and health research is a priority area of research policy. This government is working to ensure a good framework for medical and health research, and of course this also applies to cancer research. It's a work we're doing well. Today, we have many good research environments, not least in the field of cancer, for example. The Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital. Nevertheless, there is a need to further strengthen research efforts in medicine and health in order to gain more knowledge in some disciplines, and to meet the major public diseases that we already know are there, but that will be even more in the future. Through the National Health Plan, we have put in place a comprehensive strategy to strengthen both medical and health and social research in the coming years. It shall be financed, inter alia: through grants to the Norwegian Research Councils, Regional Health Enterprises, Universities, Higher Education and the Institute sector, including the Institute for Public Health. In addition, the pharmaceutical industry and the voluntary sector are important contributors to medical and health research. This type of alternative funding contributes to increasing the overall research effort and to the involvement of several actors in research. And that's good. As part of the follow-up to the Storing Communication, the Ministry of Knowledge has set up a new financing scheme in which the State provides 25 pst. the amount of the grant for basic research under certain conditions. The aim is to stimulate increased private funding for research. As the Storting knows, this scheme from 2007 will also include gifts from non-governmental organisations. The Government has notified a big deal about the framework conditions for volunteering as a follow-up to Document No. 8:107 for 2005-2006 on the revenue base of voluntary organisations. The national health plan highlights the need to coordinate the different instruments in an even better way, because we need to make better use of the overall resources than is the case today in health research. As several speakers have pointed out, cancer is a large and growing disease group by 2020. In this field, there are great opportunities to develop new, better and more effective methods both to diagnose earlier and to obtain more effective treatment than we know today. Through the national strategy for the field of cancer for 2006-2009, the Government has signalled a further commitment to meet the challenges in the field of cancer. A strategy for public cancer research funded by the Norwegian Research Council was established during the National Cancer Plan 1998–2003. Since 2002, it has been allocated approximately every year. Twenty-one million. kr through a bet on this. The Norwegian Research Council considers this effort to be successful and considers it essential to address the major challenges facing cancer research. I therefore want to continue this effort for years to come, so that cancer research in Norway is guaranteed good conditions. I also believe that the continuation of this allocation may help to reduce the unfortunate effects of lost automatic revenues that have been available for cancer research. In addition, the Research Council has financed approx. 100 cancer-related projects in 2006. These projects represented a total of 21 pst. by the Research Council’s project portfolio on health research in 2006. Analysis of clinical research in Scandinavia shows that Norway publishes more research than the average for the Nordic countries in major disciplines such as cardiovascular diseases and cancer, while we had low research productivity in other disciplines. The government says we're still going to do a lot of research in this area, and we're going to do more research than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1862	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1865	The Councils of State are joining in today's series of speakers who have spoken warmly about the importance of ensuring a good and stable framework for cancer research in Norway. The Council of State said that it is important to research more on cancer, and she also said that it has been a priority area of research policy. Then I expect the Council of State to believe that there has been a priority area for the public share of research. Then why is it that the Cancer Association is funding 70 pst? of cancer research in Norway, other than that carried out by the pharmaceutical industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1873	Let me first say that the Cancer Association is doing an incredibly important job, also in research into cancer in Norway. It's been doing that for years. But it is true that from 2006 to 2007, the grant from the Ministry of Health and Welfare to the Norwegian Research Council increased by 19 p.m. to give an example. According to statistics, there has been an increase in the research and development appropriations for health research from 2005 to 2006 of 100 million. NOK 1.5 billion to NOK 1.6 billion. We also provide funds every year from the Ministry of Health and Welfare to the Norwegian Research Council, 174 million. kr, and to health care establishments, more than 400 million. kr. In addition, regional health enterprises also provide significant resources. All of this, along with the new arrangements we are now in – including getting more private volunteers on the ground in this area – is helping to provide more patients, hopefully, with better supply and medicine in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1878	We hear that there is great optimism; that cancer research should not be harmful. That optimism doesn't share the professor at Haukeland Hospital. As I mentioned in my post, he says that this cut will slow down a research that is already getting far less than desirable. He says that all universities and hospitals with cancer wards will notice it. Now the state council also mentioned in its statement that it would be very much invested. In another sentence, there was talk that the reduction should not be so unfortunate. It would defuse a little bit for the unfortunate effect this will have. Why hasn't the government thought about these unfortunate effects before they take away any income instead of taking it after? Someone had to be able to predict that it would be such a big loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1887	Which direction it had to go in when it came to slot machines, is something the Storting has thought about for a while back, so it should not be unknown to anyone. And the government follows up the decisions that the Storting has made in that case. Many suffer from gambling addiction, with the consequences that it has in the negative direction for both those involved, and for many of their families. The government has taken it seriously. At the same time, we are occupied with all those who have new and benefit from the money from this. That there would be changes here, is not something that has suddenly arisen this year. It's something that's back in time, and the Progress Party is also well aware of. Some organisations do not rely on slot machines to the extent that they do. The Cancer Association has done. But I insist that this government will do what it can to continue to invest significantly in cancer research. We can only mention one more figure to the Progress Party, and that is that in 2005 regional health businesses spent DKK 1.2 billion on health research into their budgets. It's a significant amount. Luckily, we're going further and further and further along that path.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1894	Governments set up the income base of the Cancer Association against the proposal to secure cancer research. One is a consequence of the other, but the most important thing must be a perspective to address the challenges that cancer research will now face when the contribution of the Cancer Association goes down. Governments are well placed to frame a number of general measures, in particular in the field of health research, which have been implemented. But we're familiar with what numbers it's actually about. We know how much money the Cancer Association has spent on cancer research in 2006. We know how much it is budgeted for in 2007. And then I would like to challenge the Council of State to say how much of the amount that the Cancer Association is not going to spend on cancer research in 2008, the Council of State will make a concrete contribution to the 2008 state budget to ensure that cancer research is better or at least equivalent to what it has today, despite the fact that the contribution of the Cancer Association is falling.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1904	The representative knows I can't answer that. The representative is probably also aware that the Minister of Culture and the Church is now working on a voluntary notice, where this will also be the subject. So it's not like I'm just referring to a series of general measures. No, I refer to what we actually use, and what increase it has been since this government took over, precisely in research into health and cancer in particular. And that's not small numbers. But it's also quite true that we have to spend a lot of money on this, because unfortunately there are so many people who are hit by it. We see that the changes that are happening here will be a challenge for the Cancer Association We look forward to having a good dialogue with them in the future. But this is not something that has arisen now, nor is it news to anyone that this is happening now. However, on the public side, in consultation and cooperation with private and voluntary actors on the road, we will continue to strengthen research on cancer in the future. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1911	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1916	I have to admit that I am a little disappointed today, because I would have thought that the proposal from the Progress Party would be received in a completely different way by the other parties than it has been. I believe that we are witnessing a discharge, and I am surprised that all parties except the Progress Party close their eyes to what is the issue. We have heard the case rapporteur today and a number of other speakers are quite clear on how important it is to ensure the extent of research on cancer. The case rapporteur even said it's not just about numbers, it's about individuals – and that's what it does. Research on cancer saves individuals – individuals. We are in a situation where the case rapporteur says it is important that money for cancer research be channelled through the ordinary channels. That is the case today. In spite of that, the Cancer Association stands for 70 pst. of the research contribution! It must more than indicate that the public has so far not taken the responsibility they have for ensuring good quality in cancer research. The Progress Party believes that this is unacceptable, and when no alternative proposals are made in this document – which would have been possible if the majority had been interested in focusing on the issue – the reality is that cancer research is not being strengthened. The proposal is not, as someone has indicated, primarily about securing the income of the Cancer Society, but it is about ensuring cancer research. In 2006 the Kreftföreningen granted 129 million. for research. In 2007, the figure has fallen to 124 million. And then they're going to lose $19 million. kr from its equity. The Cancer Association warns that they will further reduce the cancer contribution because the income from slot machines is falling. So what do these heads result in? It's so easy to talk about money. In reality, the Cancer Association alone accounts for 13 researchers, five of them new in 2006, 55 postdoc positions, of which 23 new in 2006, 88 recruitment scholarships, 18 new in 2006 and approx. 60 technical homes. There's a lot of research capacity. And so far today, we haven't heard a single word from the Council of State about how to compensate for the loss of income for cancer research. It's a fact that the public has been depriving cancer research of priority for too many years, and I'm sorry to say that the majority of this room says it's still going to be that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1929	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1946	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 9 and 10 are treated together. [[See page 3488]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1975	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that 5 replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1984	There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, which supports the suspension of these two cases – consent to the ratification of the European Patent Convention, EPC, and the conclusion of an agreement between Denmark, Iceland and Norway on the establishment of the Nordic Patent Institute. The European Patent Convention is an old case – an international 1973 agreement – and it has been raised repeatedly in this Chamber, no later than 2005 in the context of a Document No. 8 proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. The EPC allows the patent applicant to obtain a patent through one application in all countries associated with the Convention. This will make patenting easier and cheaper for Norwegian companies and will also have the same competitive conditions as other European competitors. It is also important for Norway to be formally involved in the organisation, and the Committee also stressed that most hearing bodies were positive for inclusion in the EPC. At the time of accession to the EPC, a significant part of the work of the Patent Board will be lost. The majority of the Committee has noted that the competences of the Board of Patents should be maintained and safeguarded, in particular with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises. This is why it is positive that a Nordic patent institute has been established in cooperation with other countries, which is responsible for the special competence and which provides opportunities for new tasks. I expect the Christian People's Party to explain its views on these two issues, and as indicated in the vote, the government parties have made their own comments. I just want to make the comment that they have come very late, and it has been very difficult for the rest of the committee to consider the content of such a twisted case. But we're grouped behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e1997	In the Soria Moria Declaration, we are told to improve Norwegian patent policy. So let's do that. After years of waiting, Norway becomes a final member of the European Patent Organisation, EPO. Many have actually been waiting for this for 30 years. I am particularly pleased that it is the Stoltenberg government that has taken the step. The main consequence of joining the EPO will be that Norwegian companies will have equivalent conditions of competition to those of their foreign competitors. The main difference between standing outside and inside the EPO is that a patent application initiated in Norway can only lend to patents owed in Norway if we are not a member. If the company wants the patent approved in the rest of Europe, or only in some of the countries, it must start a new process with an agent in one of the EPA countries. This gives both the extra costs and delays. It is now easier and cheaper for businesses to secure patents in Europe, and they only need to submit one application to the EPO. I believe that membership will also make Norway a more attractive country for foreign investors, because patenting is as simple and inexpensive as in the rest of Europe, and foreign investors can also be confident that we in this country have the same framework as other countries in this area. In a global knowledge economy, it is increasingly important that companies secure their intellectual property rights to the knowledge they possess internally, through patents. Studies show that Norwegian companies are far behind the international best in protecting their intellectual capital, and I think that's worrying. I have no doubt that companies will tend to take a more conscious view of this. To achieve our goal of increased value creation, it is important to build more knowledge, technology, development and design into our products. Such developments depend, for example, on: by ensuring the return of enterprises on their own investment in research and development. In order to ensure that the enterprise itself has its own innovation, industrial rights must be protected, and this should, in my view, be an important element of the business strategy of an enterprise. I am pleased with the job done by the Patent Board to raise awareness of industrial dishes as a strategic tool, and that they include: implement actions targeting small and medium-sized enterprises. This is about innovation policy. Inventions play a key role in the economic development of Norwegian business. The use of patent protection stimulates further research, technological development and innovation. A patent is evidence of innovation and innovation in your company. Competence is important to ensure that the Patent Board will also be able, after Norwegian accession to the EPO, to carry out the role of National Centre of Competence for Industrial Rights and to carry out its tasks of authority, inter alia. the application procedure. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the Patent Board has a volume of competent activity which makes it justified to maintain a sufficiently high level of professional competence in the various technical areas. One will now conclude an agreement with Denmark and Iceland to establish an extended Nordic cooperation between our countries' patent works before a Nordic patent institute. International cooperation is needed, and Norway has the potential to participate in policy-making since each country will have its own voice in the EPO. Nevertheless, I believe it is important to have good Nordic cooperation, as we have the possibility of even stronger influence. Denmark has 15 years of seagoing service in the EPO, and has had a lot of membership. The Danish Patent Board is in the process of developing international IPR competence, which will help other countries where demand is exceeded. The country is a prime engine for companies to insure against any criminal proceedings against intellectual property rights. I believe that Denmark has much to learn from, which in a few years has won the position of the EU's most active nation when it comes to the protection of trademarks and designs measured against the population. Since Denmark was a member of the EPO in 1990, Danish patents are tripled. Contrary to many of the predictions, the Danish patent industry has been able to replace the lapse of national patent cases with greater revenues from consultancy and protection for the international market. It is an important decision we take here today, to join the EPO, for the benefit of Norwegian companies and Norwegian inventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2025	First, on behalf of the Right, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work that has been done – that concerns both St.prp. No 53 and St. Prp. No 54 for 2006-2007. This is an important issue for business, and it is good that these matters are now adopted in the spring session. Both issues concern the organisation of a more competitive business with regard to the effective and unbureaucratic protection of patents. Globalisation means opportunities and challenges. For Norway and Norwegian business, increased globalisation has opened up large markets and given us unique opportunities. We are exporting today for significant values around the world. But a greater flow of goods, services, ideas and labour across borders and continents also poses challenges. Competition is exacerbated, and the winner is the leading player in technological development. Norway has shown through results that we are reasonably competitive in some areas. An innovation parameter is the number of patent applications submitted. Only in 2006 a total of 6,076 patent applications were submitted to the Norwegian Patent Board. The race between businesses, research and development environments and the countries with which we compete is very tough. Unfortunately, this also means that there is a significant risk that the temptation may become great and the path too short for some to copy the neighbor’s or competitor’s technology or invention. The need to protect the technologies and inventions that put us in a position to compete is crucial. It is therefore gratifying that we are now being ratified by the European Patent Convention. From the right, we are concerned that Norway should appear as an attractive country to carry out research and development. We rely on competitive framework conditions, including in the field of patents, in relation to the countries with which we compete. The Patent Convention is an important contribution to ensuring that we can be a leading research and development nation. There has also been a clear and good feedback from business that it is important for us to implement the Patent Convention in Norwegian legislation as quickly as possible. For the Right, it has been important to listen to what business itself has meant in this matter. Our participation in the Patent Convention ensures that most patents currently notified to the Patent Board will also be notified to the European Patent Office. It is an obvious advantage for Norwegian enterprises to be able to obtain patents in Europe easily and efficiently under the same conditions as their European competitors. I have noticed an extensive round of questions between the government parties and the government in this matter. It is nothing new that SV and the Center Party have to operate a certain renovation of election vows. The new thing here is that the debate on the matter did not seem quite clear when it was promoted for Stortinget. In the option of St.prp. No 54 stresses that the Norwegian authorities will continue to have full control of the patents to be applied in this country. The majority place the emphasis on the possibility of setting aside EPO patents through Norwegian court proceedings. I notice that researcher and lawyer Morten Walløe Tvedt at the Fridtjof Nansens Institute assesses this in a slightly different way, as a large majority of patents will come to Norway completely without special treatment. He pronounces the following to the nation on June 8th this year: ‘The number of patents will increase explosively, and Norwegian researchers and companies like Norsvin and Geno will have a much greater number of exclusive rights to deal with. Administration is simultaneously transferred to the rest of the world.» He further states that an EPO membership will weaken Norway's bridge builder role. I see this as a slightly different tone than the attempt of the government parties to dismiss the real consequences of the case through comments on the possible court proceedings of individual patents. But this time will show. Finally, the question of Norwegian accession to the EPC has been debated several times since the EPC was established in 1973. I would like to stress once again that we in the Right are pleased that today we are ratifying this agreement, so that Norway too becomes a full participant in the European Patent Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2058	I must also say thank you to the case rapporteur, who has tried to unload us through three complex patent cases. I think it's complicated. It's a comprehensive code, and it's taken time to figure it out. That said, you can also do it very easily. One might say that a patent is as simple as a time-limited right to exploit an invention commercially. So the patent gives the inventor some kind of protection or insurance against other people stealing the invention and getting rich on something you haven't invented yourself. Then it is that a patent only works in the country it is notified. As a result, patents on inventions notified in Norway only provide protection in Norway and not in Sweden, Germany and England. The challenge for Stortinget is to find out how to take care of our entrepreneurs as best we can, who depend on standing in a tough competition every single day. The purpose of applying for participation in the EPO is to improve the Norwegian patent policy, thereby also ensuring Norwegian inventions and Norwegian inventors. We believe that good solutions to patent rights will make it both easier and cheaper for Norwegian companies to secure patents in Europe. Then, too, the intellectual property rights far exceed the physical and material values of the vast majority of enterprises. This is particularly valid in the most innovative sectors. When intellectual property rights are protected, it provides the holder with a much better basis for negotiating agreements with financial intermediaries. I've seen in my work that it's often problematic to get in the position to make money on a good invention, because you don't have the security to keep the invention with the owner. I'm not going to go into the technicalities of the setting. They are partly illuminated by other speakers before me. But I'll say something about what SV has spent time here. We have tried to find out whether there are any unfortunate aspects of ratifying the European Patent Convention and accession to the Act of Revision. We have listened carefully to the hearings, and we have looked in particular at the relationship between the ethical concept of patent cases and the role we have had as a bridge builder between developing countries to safeguard their interests in patent cases. We are pleased that the principles of respect for human dignity continue to be pursued by Norwegian policies and that the Patent Directive is implemented and practised in accordance with the Biodiversity Convention. We are pleased that the agricultural exemption contained in the patent law is not affected by the Norwegian accession of EPC. What we're particularly pleased with is that through the Ot.prp proposal. No 33 for 2006-2007, which we come back to today, will ask the Government to assess the possibility that the ethical denominator can intervene independently in patent cases in Norway. In the case of applications for patents related to natural biological material, it has been difficult to identify differences between practices in Norway, the Patent Board and the European Patent Office. We think we're going to get this harmonised in a good way, and we're looking forward to Norwegian inventors and Norwegian inventions being taken care of and able to stand in a tough competition. We would recommend Stortinget to vote for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2084	The question of ratifying the European Patent Convention, the registration of the European Patent Organisation and the implementation of the Convention in Norwegian law are naturally linked, although the handling of the house is shared between Stortinget and Odelstinget. So I choose to describe all of this in my article as a whole. The Christian People's Party's handling of patent issues from previous times is well known. Taking theses into a government government on proposals from the government is very serious. Therefore, such reactions must be saved to the very rare cases, where the basic principle is that the party does not have any real possibility of finding a compromise, and where there are only two modes of reaction: either going out of government or taking it. The Christian People's Party took this one in a single case of the Right and Left Cooperation Government in the previous period. It was on the issue of the implementation of the Patent Directive. Such an important principle applied to us in this matter. For the Christian People's Party, the patenting debate has focused on human dignity, the environment and the developing world's interests. Plants, animals and naturally occurring material must be viewed as part of the creation, which we are set to administer. In this manager's mind, it's natural that it's a self-esteem that we have to protect. In this respect, the patent directive, which the EPO naturally complies with, is particularly problematic in that it distinguishes so little between living material as a fin in nature and what has been affected and developed. The fact that one can obtain patents on discoveries and inventions rather than other things does not particularly harmonize with such ethical thinking. It is likely that approx. 90 pst. The world's genetic resources exist in tropical areas, i.e. that it is mainly developing countries. What we fear in the Christian People's Party in this context is that the Patent Directive will lead to a massive and uncontrolled exploitation of genetic resources in these countries without ensuring that countries will pay for it. This is actually an argument against the patent directive itself, which was implemented by Norwegian law in 2003. It is not the position we are taking today, but we consider the following: is there a restrictive Norwegian practice of patenting strengthened or weakened upon accession to the European Patent Convention? Is the brewing role more or less credible between the developing countries and their interests at the time of membership of the EPO? In the settings, the government party, as far as they can, has argued that the remedial measures, if not in form, so in any case, are carried forward even with the agreement of the convention. I will not go into the details argument for or against this. But I'm just asking the question: Is it an overarching task for the EPO to protect human dignity and the environment? Is it an overarching task to set strict ethical frameworks for development? Is it an overarching task for the EPO to fight for U-country rights and to exploit its own natural resources free of charge? Is it an overarching task to ensure that the practice of the most restrictive countries is founded internationally? The answer to these questions is no. The task of the EPO is to ensure compliance with the Patent Convention and respect for the rights of patent applicants. The boundaries between patents on genetically modified organisms and patents on conventionally processed food plants are becoming increasingly elusive in EPO practice. They are a counterparty to a meeting with the u-country, not a party. It is very unlikely that the accession to the Patent Convention and membership of the EPO will lead to Norwegian patenting practices being sloppy, from the point of view of the Christian People's Party. The Government has implemented two measures to ensure that a Norwegian restrictive practice can be continued. There are now major questions about whether this practice is really so restrictive. It may be an argument — on which the Ministry of the Environment has landed — that in practice the remedial measures have not meant all the world. However, the courts should be given the opportunity to obtain an account of the ethical issue in any action for the prohibition of patent decisions by the EPO in Norway. A system of administrative review is in place. The first measure is likely to have very limited value in practice. The second measure is positive in itself, although it appears that the NHO will keep it away. In the long way, we get a clear impression that we are now going in the wrong direction. It is a step on which the Christian People's Party will not participate. We will therefore vote against both the accession to the Patent Convention and its implementation in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2114	The Centre Party accepts a Norwegian membership of the European Patent Organisation. But this is a case with many sides. The purpose of membership is – as others have said before me – to grant a patent to Norwegian industry in line with competitors in Europe. Norwegian and European patent practices are already very similar, as the EEA Patent Directive underlies both. However, in a central area, there are important shades — in the case of patents on life. The previous government and the previous large majority made access to patents in life part of Norwegian law, through ratification of the Patent Directive. The centre party voted against the patent directive as Stortingen had it under consideration. If this matter were on the table today, we would still vote against it. The centre party wants a narrowing of Norwegian law in the case of patents on life. At the same time, we recognize that this, given the legacy of the previous government, must be done on the basis of a law we oppose. The remedial measures adopted by the Stortinget in relation to patents in life should be a safety net for ethically controversial matters and should remain in place in respect of applications to the Norwegian Patent Board. The centre lot and the majority of the population want an evaluation of the impact of the measures during the period in which they were in force, and ask the Government, if necessary, to propose the adjustments so that the measures can operate in line with its intention. A Norwegian EPO membership will result in a large proportion of Norwegian patent applications being sent to the European Patent Organisation. It is not possible for Norway to require EPO requests to be dealt with in line with our remedial measures. It should be known that the Centre Party is critical of the issuing of national authorities in areas of major societal importance. Now that we accept Norwegian accession to the European Patent Convention, it has been essential that the Ministry of Justice has so unequivocally assured that the Norwegian Patent Board and the Norwegian courts will be able to recognise EPO patents in Norway if they conflict with what is called ‘public order and morality’. So we're still going to have an ethical security network that can stop ethically controversial patents in Norway, for example, in relation to the borderline between discoveries and inventions. At the same time as we are now accepting Norwegian membership of the European Patent Organisation, the bulk of the population are taking action to strengthen the public ‘discussion’ on patents in life. The development of genetic engineering is faster than most of us overlook, and awake public awareness requires that critical expertise can call for warning when the border is being moved. The ethical denominator for patent cases shall, from now on, give its opinion on individual applications on its own initiative. Today, it can only comment on matters which it receives from the Patent Board. Over the years under review, it has only had two issues to deal with. The following shall be able to address, for the future, both ordinary Norwegian patent applications and patents granted by the EPO, as part of a general Norwegian process for verifying the validity of EPO patents in Norway. A complaint from the denominator must weigh heavily. If, within a specified period of time, an ethical mention is made of the fact that a patent should not be granted, the appeal shall be dealt with by the Board of Patents. This is a significant strengthening of the role of the denominator. The pluralisation also clarifies and strengthens Norwegian solidarity with the interests of developing countries in the field of patents. Norway has over time been a strong supporter of developing countries and bridge builders in terms of their demands for sovereignty over their own biological resources. The majority end up with the Government's efforts to introduce mandatory requirements of origin indication and traceability in all international patent law and want the Norwegian field effort to be strengthened. This applies both to biological material and to traditional knowledge, in line with the objective of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. One of the main requirements of developing countries is that bio prospectors must have the permission of the host country to extract genetic material and the agreement on profit-sharing in the commercialisation of such material. Several developing countries have introduced their own legislation, so-called sui generis legislation. The government is working on the follow-up to the NOU 2004:28 Act on the Conservation of Nature, Landscapes and Biodiversity. The announced nature diversity law will provide an excellent opportunity to present a Norwegian sui generis law – to consolidate our support for these principles and to contribute to the international establishment of a standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2146	The left agrees with the speakers who have spoken here earlier and who can measure that these are complex and complex issues. In the light of previous treatments here in Stortinget and the history of the case, there has also been a difficult case for the Left. I would like to start by saying that we support the proposals for decisions here today. The left agrees that it is important to improve Norwegian patent policy so that we can secure patent rights on the level of our competitors. Accession to the European Patent Convention, EPC, will make it easier and cheaper for Norwegian companies to secure patents across Europe. This will lead to more level playing field with foreign competitors. It will be easier for small businesses, and indeed all businesses, and of course for those who have the most difficulty: entrepreneurs in a start-up phase. In addition, Norwegian enterprises will be able to participate in the European Industrial and Patent Cooperation Network established. In the practice of legislation, the Left assumes that the fundamental principle of respect for human dignity is being followed. It is also considered that Norway will continue to be a bridge builder and a contact point with developing countries. Furthermore, it is important for the Left that what is done in practice is in line with the Biodiversity Convention. The Left also assumes that, through the Government's preparatory work on the matter, the necessary measures have been ensured so that one can still have restrictive practices in order to prevent the patent being too easy to obtain and that patent protection is extended too far. It is particularly important in the use of biological material. We are in a time of strong globalisation. Competition for business is tough. We have an extroverted business in this country, and competition, of course, transcends borders. Therefore, it is important that these matters are dealt with precisely in view of the future of Norwegian business. I join those who have commended the rapporteur for a good job. Finally, I refer to the Committee's comments on which the Left is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2163	I am pleased that the Committee has made a positive decision in this matter. After more than 30 years of waiting, it is time for Norwegian business to now be given the opportunity to secure their rights under the same conditions as their European competitors. Through the decision to accede to the European Patent Convention, we take an important step towards improving Norwegian patent policy. Research and innovation will be crucial for future value creation. In a knowledge-dominated economy with increasing competition, the need to safeguard the rights of knowledge becomes greater. Such rights can be powerful tools for small Norwegian companies in competition with companies from around the world. That is why the Government has such an active policy on intellectual property rights. Accession to the European Patent Convention will make it easier and cheaper to obtain patent protection throughout Europe. Ensuring that we have the same framework conditions as other countries in this area can also make Norway a more attractive country to invest in for foreign innovative businesses. In addition, Norwegian enterprises, experts and authorities are given better access to the European Patent Competence Environment represented by the EPO. Norwegian participation facilitates the strengthening of Nordic cooperation in the field of patents. Furthermore, we will have participation in the EPO in line with the other Member States. So we can also exercise our influence in this important forum. The rules governing patentable inventions have been the same in the Norwegian Patent Act and the European Patent Convention since the implementation of the Patent Directive in 2004. In order to prevent adverse effects on the implementation of the Patent Directive, some changes were also made to the Patent Act. In the debate that has taken place on this issue in the last few months, there have been some misunderstandings about the effects of accession to the EPC. I'm glad it's now cleared up in these misunderstandings. For example, it will. it does not occur that European patents in force in Norway are only available in foreign languages, such as French, German or English. Patents granted by the European Patent Office shall be translated into Norwegian in order to take effect in this country. Nor will the so-called agricultural exemption in the patent law be affected by a Norwegian EPO membership. Patent-protected material sold to a holder may be used for breeding purposes on the farm. That means that the farmer can still use his pottery to put it back again if he wants it — unhindered by patents. Finally, the Norwegian authorities decide whether to set a patent as invalid in Norway. In such cases, Norwegian law will apply. The question of the validity of a patent will be brought before the courts and administrative review will be opened before the Board of Patents. It is also important to remember that a patent is only a temporary exclusive right to exploit an invention commercially, but not necessarily a clear signal to do so, if the other law says otherwise. The accession to the EPC is one of several measures taken by the Government to improve Norwegian patent policy. It is gratifying that there has also been an agreement on the conclusion of an agreement with Denmark and Iceland to establish the Nordic Patent Institute. This will help to ensure, in particular, that small and medium-sized enterprises have a sufficiently good supply of public patent competence in the future. Furthermore, we have seen the need to increase knowledge of industrial rights in industry and in the instrumentation. An Action Plan for an Advisory Forum was delivered at my table last December, and the Ministry is now looking at what concrete measures we are going to take. The next step will be the work we have now started on making a communication on innovation policy, and it will be presented to the Stortinget in 2008. I imagine that the message will be a well-suited place to take another step forward in intellectual property policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2200	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2203	Like many of you, I got my first knowledge of patents by reading Donald Duck. Petter Smart was constantly exposed to thieves who tried to steal ideas and new inventions. Later, as a trust candidate at the University of Oslo, I really got my eyes up on how important it is to secure intellectual property rights, because there were research results of large values unsecured. It is now a milestone for the Government to ratify the European Patent Convention after 30 years of waiting. With this measure, we help Norwegian companies secure values in international competition. The process of whether Norway will ratify the Convention, as we signed in 1973, has been long, laborious and what can be called thoroughly. This government took up the matter immediately after they moved into the government offices, and it is clear that the Council of State is giving the country a new policy. With membership of the European Patent System, the Government is demonstrating its power of action. There are active industrial policies in practice. I hope and believe that more enterprises in the cold water of accession will be more offensive in ensuring industrial rights. Membership is beneficial for Norwegian business. Increased international competition is increasing the need for business to protect its intangible assets. Among them again, industrial rights are especially important because they are so powerful. This gives an extra advantage to competition because they are registered and can be enforced through the assistance of the Court of Justice. It's no longer a circuit championship we're participants in, but a world championship. Membership will make it cheaper and easier for Norwegian companies to secure the rights of their innovations. With this measure, we help Norwegian companies to secure values in international competition, while providing Norway with participation in Europe in a very central policy area. We need to be aware that, in the long term, there will be more patents with foreign holders to deal with. This means that Norwegian companies will have more globalised conditions of competition, including at home. With Norway as a member, it becomes both more important and easier for businesses to implement a conscious strategy for industrial rights – more important because enterprises from other countries can obtain patents in Norway, and easier because it is easier and cheaper to secure patents across Europe. The ratification of the European Patent Convention by the Government and the Storting after more than 30 years of anticipation is an action that improves the framework conditions for Norwegian business and an important milestone for an active and effective industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2222	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten. [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2239	St. pp. No 65 for 2006-2007 deals with the award of cheap substitutes, with the more striking ‘justice allowance’. This is the Storting’s own compensation scheme for individuals who have come out particularly unfortunate. These may apply for discretionary compensation from the State. The stork has two lavish substitute committees. I point out that it is the Grand Stortinge’s Committee on Cheapness Compensation that makes decisions on matters of cheapness compensation, but it is the Stortinge that deals with matters where it is relevant to grant compensation of more than NOK 200,000 – except for cases after St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005, where the Committee on Cheapness Compensation has been authorised to give up to NOK 300000 — and cases of a particular political nature. In this proposition, five cases are submitted to the Stortinget, where there is a grant of an allowance of more than NOK 200000. The Committee shall act unanimously in favour of the proposal submitted, which shall cover five applications. Furthermore, we have included an additional issue in this landfill proposition. I'm referring to the deadline for war children to apply for cheap compensation after St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004 expires on 1 July 2007. The Committee is aware that organisations for the children of war have called for a postponement of the deadline. I am pleased to announce that a joint committee recommends that the deadline for applying be postponed until 1 January 2008. It is assumed that between 10,000 and 12,000 persons are so-called German children or children of war, descendants of Norwegian women and German men during the 1940-1945 war years. By extending the deadline for applying for half a year's allowance for cheapness, we hope that even more war children will apply for compensation for the disadvantages they have suffered during and after World War II.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2254	Let me briefly comment on this matter, since the proposition also has a more principleal approach to the cheap substitute system. The credit compensation scheme is the Storting’s own remuneration scheme for individuals who have come out very badly. I also have a great sense, as the representative Lydvo had in mind, of the notion of ‘justice’. It says well what this is about. Such a judicial fee from the state body may help to restore dignity and give a sense of justice being done to the fullest extent possible. I have noted that the Judicial Committee unanimously agrees to decide on the increased reimbursement of the fees for the five applicants involved in this round. I'm happy about that, too. I have noticed that the Justice Committee recommends that the deadline for war children to apply for legal compensation be extended until 1 January 2008, and I agree with that. The original deadline was adopted at Stortinget in connection with the examination of the notification of St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004. I believe that it is Storting's wish that the deadline now be extended, and I will ensure that this is communicated further. To the more principleal and, to the extent, constitutional: work on this landfill proposal has provided a basis for assessing the best way of reporting from the LDCs. The Ministry will now review the reporting system in which the reporting and the institutional distribution of responsibilities will be assessed in particular. In this respect, I refer to the points of view which include: is referred to in the present proposal and expressed in the Annex to the Report of St.meld. No 44 for 2003–04, that the cheap compensation scheme is the Stortinge’s own scheme and, in principle, is not a matter for the Government. I will come back to Stortinget on these questions in an appropriate way, after a closer dialogue with, among other things. the selections.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2265	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2281	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2290	No one disagrees that we want safer big cities, but I would like to stress that Oslo is a safe capital compared to other big cities, although of course it should not be a sleeping cushion. Oslo has challenges and opportunities for improvement. The Committee agrees that we aim to ensure that we in Norway feel safe both in the countryside and in the city. However, cities face specific challenges. The question will be what measures we will take to achieve this goal. The representative proposal contains 16 proposals for measures for safer cities. I don't want to go into all the proposals in concrete terms, but I want to highlight someone. The Committee believes that prevention is important in order to achieve the objective of safer cities. I want to refer to the project Together Do we create a Tryg Oslo, Salto, in some parts of Oslo, which is one of four projects that together constitute the action Follow-up team for young offenders, where the state co-finances the four project managers with the municipalities. The three other projects are Kristiansand, Stavanger and Trondheim. SaLTo is based on the experience of the SLT work, the coordination of local crime prevention measures, which is a cooperation between the municipality and police districts, now implemented in approx. 170 municipalities and urban areas. SLT cooperation is established in all metropolitan parts of Oslo. SALTO coordinators are added in each district and child protection consultants are added at each police station. This work results in the coordination of the activities of different bodies in contact with vulnerable young people and may involve different prevention measures and other follow-up activities. The system of police councils, which we adopted in the police mission last year, will be able to continue this work. The majority of the Committee points out that some of the proposals submitted are already regulated by law. I point out that the municipalities have a self-responsive responsibility for the tipping policy, and that there are legal structures to limit the number of tipping points and opening hours. The majority would therefore encourage the city councils concerned to implement the legislation, in order to reduce, if necessary, the number of convalescent sites and opening hours in exposed areas. Otherwise, I would like to stress that there is no doubt that the use and availability of alcohol is linked to the number of disorders of order, violence and accidents, and that the number of places of discovery and the timing of donations is relevant to the extent of these crimes. I would like to point out that the Minister of Industry will be in favour of a stricter food law, which will help regulate the unprofessional operators in the industry, among others. through increased access to the closure of serving sites. As far as proposal 16 is concerned, I would like to point out that the Government is working on a new part of the Planning and Building Act, where we follow up what we said in the Soria Moria Declaration that municipalities are committed to taking crime prevention into account in planning. The police have an important role to play in making cities safer, and the majority see an increased commitment to the police in general as well as increased admission to the Police College, where we also focus on bringing in students with a minority background, is the right way to go. The Oslo police got 30 million. kr extra in the revised national budget. Oslo police have had several successful actions against trafficking in human beings and organized recrime lately – so that's good! I see from a press release from the police on June 6th this year that several police officers are going to patrol the streets of the capital this summer. There should be more police on foot in the streets, and that's good. The government has provided a capital message with a number of good measures to address, among other things. prevention, police and voluntary work, which will help to make the capital and other cities of Norway safer. The majority of the Committee recommends that the proposals be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2318	It is an important topic that the representatives of the Christian People's Party address in this matter. We should all wish that we lived in a perfect world, without violence, threats, or troubles, either at home or in the cityscape. Now the world is a little different, and it is important that we politicians engage in a safe and good society that promotes well-being, security and good life. The question will then be how and what measures and instruments we should use. Proposals suggest that increased availability and increased turnout times are an important reason why there are public order problems in cities today. I can agree with the proposers that it can be felt as unsafe to go out on weekends in some cities, but to make this a question of donation times is a little too simple. I would say that many people's drinking habits have much of the blame for this. One does not have to travel far beyond the borders of Norway until one sees that people have a completely different behavior on a Saturday night, and where it is nice to bring the children out in the evening. Experience shows us that the causes of the challenges are multifaceted, and the Progress Party therefore does not agree with the conclusions of the proposers. For the Progress Party, the ban line is not the solution. We believe that very much can be solved locally in each municipality and also in cooperation with the police. Therefore, it is so important that each municipality has established SLT cooperation, Coordination of Local Crime Prevention Measures, and the Police Council. I, who have been a municipal politician for more than ten years, am overwhelmed by many of the proposals in this matter. I thought the Christian People's Party was a party that fenced on local democracy and didn't want the state to go in and rule everything. The challenge that we are debating today, and which we can agree on, must first of all be solved locally in each municipality, and then it is important that the law is in place. The Progress Party is of the clear opinion that once the administration of the Civil Service Act is assigned to the municipalities, it must be up to each municipality to decide how the law is to be administered within the limits prescribed by the Act. The progress party believes that it should be easy to get a gift grant, but it should be even easier to lose it. That is why controls are so important. Many of the proposals put forward by the proposers involve an overarching of local democracy. What's important to us here today is to encourage the municipalities to actively use the law that they already have, in an appropriate and good way. Preventive measures must be central to the work of safe cities and communities. This is where local politicians stand in a special position. It is important to put prevention on the agenda and to give status to prevention work. We disagree on the instruments that should be used, and on the extent to which they should be applied to those who make trouble and create disorder and fear. Crime, strife and disorder shall not restrict the freedom and rightful expression of life of people. Police resources need to be increased so that the police can be more visible in the cityscape. We know that the police present and more visible are good prevention measures. We know that today there are several police districts that are struggling to occupy vacant posts. The police have major budgetary challenges, and that is a problem. More visible police give less trouble and less crime. Working with prevention measures in the police sector needs to be given a much higher status. In this way, a more serious crime can be prevented. I could address several of the individual proposals, but refer to the comments of the Progress Party in the vote. We do not agree with all the proposals, and we probably disagree with some of the instruments that the Christian People's Party and the proposers believe need to be put into practice, but I still hope that this debate will continue in the individual municipalities as well, and that our local politicians are conscious of their responsibilities. I would like to take up with this the minority proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2346	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2349	It may not be a completely insignificant source of irritation, and it can certainly be felt a bit in between between for the government parties, that the opposition at regular intervals promotes proposals that it is working on at all times. Nevertheless, it is important that we have debates along the way, so that the Government gets some input into the good work that this government is doing in between. Then you may later get back some suggestions in a slightly different package and with some other proposers, but the point is that we finally get good proposals adopted. I think that is an important dynamic in the debate on justice policy that we have, something that the Council of State has been concerned about on previous occasions. I think there's an important dynamics in that we recognize and have a somewhat similar sense of reality, even though we have some different instruments, because we emphasize the ability of individuals and municipalities to take responsibility for themselves and others somewhat differently. However, I think some of the proposals here today are paradoxical. We had a very heated debate about the need to legislate local self-government quite a short time ago. And I have to say, on the Right, that this did not last that long, as it is already going to introduce legislation that will further restrict municipal autonomy. But I want to record one thing that I think is very positive. With regard to our common desire to recruit more young people with a minority background to the police, it is actually worth seeing that a cross-political desire is now beginning to be realized. It shows that it helps to keep the pressure up for a longer time, and that you don't give up if the challenges aren't solved right away. Now we saw the figures for the Police College, and we saw that there was a significant increase. It's positive. But although we are in the process of success, we still support the proposal to present a concrete plan on how to recruit even more people with a minority background to the police in order to keep the necessary pressure up. It is also positive that the government realises that a somewhat tight budget was adopted for the police in connection with the state budget before Christmas, and now in revised part wants to restore the real cuts they made. Although reported reports show the need for the police to cooperate far more closely across and not keep the information to themselves, in order to solve more crime, there is no need to be an excuse not to provide for an obliging escalation in the future in order to fill the too many available uniform jackets. There the government has announced an effort, and we are going to follow it closely. We're going to support any proposal to increase police budgets in the future to fill some of those jackets, not least to solve the challenges we see, among other things. in the streets of Oslo. At the same time, it is also important to do something about the challenges the police have to work with more, so that we don't have too many pocketmen floating around that you can't catch because the police lack ICT knowledge in the various police districts. Crime is not going to pay off. Victims of this type of crime need to know that a criminal gets a response. Any offender, regardless of age and life situation, must face an adapted response based on the nature of the offence. Such a limitation is of great value in preventing young people from starting a criminal career. I perceive that very much in the proposal from the proposers is to signal some values. We agree with those values, even if we do not agree with all the measures. But I want to take up one value that I unfortunately see we are losing, namely the need for adult contact. We have got several public employees to take care of young people who fall outside. There are more and more people outside, while we have more and more public employees to take care of children. I have met some young people who have had a reasonably negative encounter with the auxiliary equipment, for example. a young drug addict who asked for help for self-help. What she was told by the case handler was: Stop manipulating me! This is one of several examples of what some young people are about to encounter at NAV, at social offices and elsewhere. And it's an important value that we actually signal – not just from this pulpit, but further out to the apparatus – that when you're part of an auxiliaries, you're actually there to help the individual, not just to help out of a desire to keep your own job. I believe very many of those who fall outside, simply fall outside because they got the wrong help, and because they did not get the support and respect they deserved when they asked for help. There's a value that I think we should go together to signal out to major parts of the apparatus that handle this kind of thing. Finally, I am addressing our proposals, and I think I should also address the joint proposals that the Right and the Advance Party have, since the previous speeches did not – so it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2370	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2373	There may be reason to recall some of the background to the fact that this proposal for a representative came a few months ago, and it has also been in relation to the many previous speakers, the so-called narrowing of municipal autonomy. In fact, the chief of police in this city asked, in the light of a very negative development of violence in the centre of Oslo, that the number of nightlife spots in some streets in the centre of Oslo be reduced by 25 p.m. After he said that, several of the police officers in the other major cities came with the same message: there has been a clear increase in alcohol-related violence in their cities. It was something of the background. We just have to record that this debate has been going on for months, and it has come out quite positively – it has been up in Oslo City Council, and I know that it has also been up in several of the city councils in other of our larger cities. In this way, we can already say that this has been a contribution to a larger municipal wake-up on the relationship between violence and alcohol, and the more general problem associated with what we do to make urban communities safer. I'm not going to go through all the proposals either, it doesn't give time, but let me just say that the alcohol law is also a law that's passed in this room and that sets the framework for the activities of the municipalities. So it's absolutely right that through the suggestions we're presenting here, we use a little bit stronger lye than what's been common in leaderships related to some problem areas. This applies, for example: the weight of police statements to be given in bulwarks, and the fact that the municipalities will also be required to introduce more differentiated closing times for the points of call, to mention something. So to another point that has been raised in the debate, and that is that one study shows that under the age limit, young people get to buy alcohol both at the tipping points and at the Vinmonopolet – young people in part are under 18 years of age. One of the proposals here goes a long way towards making a change so that something can be done about this. For me, what emerged from that study is extremely discouraging, and it should be said that we are doing something to prevent this from reaching such an extent as the study has revealed. But I see that the majority refers to municipal autonomy in this way. So to some of the positive, which also the representative Dahl was in. After the promotion of this proposal for a representative, it has been shown that far more minority languages have been introduced than previously in the School of Police for the autumn. That's very positive, without us drawing that proposal for that reason. The case rapporteur also pointed out this with crime prevention considerations in land planning. I know, among other things. that the Crime Prevention Council has worked on this very thing in several ways. In a situation where we have a tearing urban development in many places, this is really a theme that I would like the municipalities to at least bring up on their own, if you don't get it into some phase of the planning and building law. In the capital message that was presented a short time ago, the government also underlined the need for a present police force. We have noted the proposal for a certain increase in the police budget in the revised national budget to be adopted on Friday. Similarly, there will be vacant posts in the police even after Friday's decision, and police posts in Oslo will be closed after Friday's decision. And I don't think we should underestimate a visible police force in the local environment. In conclusion, I would like to say that many of the comments that accompany this proposal for a representative are positive. They have taken up a lot of the representative proposal. Of course, we from the Christian People's Party support the proposals submitted by the minority, and I also address the proposals No. 9-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2392	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2395	Most of us experience our country as safe to live in, but not all. Proposal providers address a challenge to us as national politicians as well as to local politicians. We have a common responsibility to make sure that the big cities in the country are also safe, and to make sure that the many people who feel insecure by moving out into public space are not going to feel it that way. Security is one of the most fundamental needs for us human beings. It is fundamental to democracy, and it is fundamental to economic development as well. In view of this, there is every reason to take seriously the initiative of the proposers. I want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for the thought behind the proposal, namely that as politicians we are not only responsible for repairing the damage as they occur, but also thinking about prevention and preventing damage from occurring. Thus, we have the power not only to save society for large resources, but above all to prevent great human suffering. This is something that the Center Party has been busy for a long time. Proposals include free meeting places as important. That's unquestionably right. That's why we in the Central Party are enjoying the change in the Christian People's Party's policy that has taken place in this area. Under the previous government, represented by the proposers, record numbers of drugfree youth clubs disappeared under municipal control. The reason was the economic struppetion of the then government took on the municipalities. The joy is that after the new government joined, we have seen signs of the opposite – a better supply for young people around the municipalities. A number of the measures we are discussing here are also about a good community economy. A number of proposals are aimed at the social policy, which is the responsibility of the municipalities. There is no doubt that there is a connection between drugs and crime. Therefore, it is important that municipalities take serious responsibility for the donation policy. We have to trust that they do. It is surprising that in a comment from the Health and Social Committee, the Christian People's Party will transfer parts of this responsibility to the State. In particular, this comes in a strange light when the Christian People's Party in other matters, e.g. In the game policy, will transfer power from the state to the municipalities with a foundation just in the important municipal self-government – and then criticise other parties for not having confidence in the local people. There is no political context here. The centre party is busy strengthening the crime prevention work. We will help keep focus on this in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2408	The representative, Mr Syversen, put the issue of security on the agenda and that is positive. The debate then brings with it other considerations that I shall briefly comment on. Firstly, in the past, the Left has promoted a draft constitution on local self-government. We stand firm on that. It will have implications for voting on a series of proposals that have been promoted both within the Committee and by the representative of the Syversen today. I think it is absolutely right that we can have political strife, competition and debate on how we use this autonomy wisely and in a good way. Secondly, I think it is positive that the representative has addressed the issue of the relationship between police and other good forces in society to prevent violence and combat violence when it takes place. Some of this has been discussed in the past by Stortinget, for example. in connection with St.meld. No 42 for 2004-2005, the role and tasks of the police. But I have a few brief comments: First of all, I think that the proposals that have been promoted to keep pressure on what was taken up in the police role announcement that it is important to stimulate and cheer on the development of the police, and to measure what is happening in the police, also in a different way than counting percentages of clearance, that is a necessary initiative from the Stortinget, because I don't think this is going to happen by itself. I have some experience to say that. The left will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 2, which is about this, and which is taken up by the Right and the Advance Party. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 1, about the present police, simply because it gives a pressure on two points: firstly, the size of the police budget, where we are similar to the representative of the Christian People's Party, who had the word in place, have found reason to strengthen this in the revised national budget. We also welcome the fact that the Government has done so, both for Oslo and elsewhere. In that context, I would like to say that it is very important to create a debate on what provides security and position in the police in order to carry out what we can call street work. There is often great status in the police to become a specialist in an office and research, while the field workers in this life – whether in one or the other profession – are not always valued as much. It's very important in the police, and I experience that proposal no. 1 essentially goes to the nucleus of it. Proposal No. 8 is also based on the safety of recruiting minorities. I agree with the representative Syversen that although there has been a conscious job in this matter for many years, and although there is some joyous development now, it is just to keep the pressure – not as any criticism that those who work now are not working, but because there is only safe and systematic work that results in that area. A proposal from the minority has also been put forward in the Committee to have an even stronger pressure on faster judicial proceedings by what we might call a more active procedural management. This is a good proposal, an important one. This is not adopted by rules, a culture must be created. I know, and representatives of the Justice Committee know, that work has been done to get it done. Incentives to that further development are good. There have also been Norwegian meetings with defenders and representatives of the accomplice in courts, and everyone has agreed that this is fully possible, just creating culture. We know from many courts that results have been obtained. Oslo District Court has got good results, but there are also many other places to look for and look at these questions. The left will vote for one of the many Christian People's Party proposals presented today. This concerns the issue of legal provocation. The left has previously stated that it is right to do that. It is very important that it is not an illegal police method, but that it is legislated – both for the purpose of combating crime and for those who are going to do the job. In conclusion, I would like to return to a point I was on the way, that it does not provide high enough status in the police to be known in a local environment on the street. It may give better status in small areas around Norway, perhaps better status in cities other than Oslo — but there is no high status in Oslo. All those who know the police's work in this city know that systematically thinking about what you can do about this — both through recruitment, through career paths and through pay systems — is important. We're able to reward field workers who program in the computer industry, because we realize that it's important. Gradually, we have realized that it is important to take care of good field workers in social work and child protection. Although it hasn't got that many practical results, at least we'll talk a little bit about it. For the teachers, we are aware of it and are clearly trying to do something, and many parties in the hall are proposing this. But when we get to this important part of the police work, there's a lot of silence. I feel – based a lot on past experience, but also on recent experience – that it is right to keep this under pressure. I thank the representative Syversen for creating, like many others, an arena. I would also say that this capital is a good city, as was said in the opening of the debate here. There's reason to take seriously what's wrong, but also reason to enjoy what's good. There is reason to honor all those who make a great effort, not least in the police, to create security. There are many who work a lot, although they are often too few, but those who do the job are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11.ana.ud758e2430	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The evening meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
