ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e22	Two permit applications are available: from the Left-wing Group on sick leave for the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug from 16 May until further notice from the representative Borghild Tendeen on welfare leave from 21 May until 26 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Inge Hallgeir SolliFor More and Romesdal County: Gunn Berit Gärde3. Gunn Berit Gjerde is elected to the Lagningen for the time she meets the representative of Leif Helge Kongshaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e55	The representative of the Svein Fleet will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e58	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Olemic Thommess and myself, I have the pleasure of making a proposal for a representative to increase the amount of the deduction and extend the tax deduction scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations to include also gifts, including quotas, in local non-governmental organisations. Then I also enjoy promoting representatives from Jan Tore Sanner, Børge Brende and myself to exclude the field values of elgae from the property calculation in areas with established wolfevir and high predatory wildlife loading.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e65	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e68	On behalf of the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I would like to propose, through a new law, to ensure that the water and sewerage infrastructure remains the whole time of the public forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e73	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e93	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Day Terje Andersen Councillor Heidi Grande Røsstaatsråde Helga Pedersen The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e112	My question goes to State Councillor Heidi Grande Røys. You could say a lot about former Right-State Councils, but the two previous modernisation ministers, Victor D. Norman and Morten Meyer, at least had ambitious visions and objectives. They wanted to build up bureaucracy, cut down on processing times and digitise public administration. After the red-green government took over, the Minister of Modernisation was renamed the Minister of Renewal, before the Government fell on the more co-norse variant of the Minister of Renewal. In the Municipal and Administrative Committee, we have generally received only one case from the Ministry of Renewal and Administration in addition to the routine cases of pensions and annual reports, namely the case of the Sami name of the Troms County. Does this government have any ambitions at all in the area of renewal other than to keep changing names? Or is there just a lack of work in the ministry that makes the Minister of Renewal adjourn after introducing the 6-hour day? What does the Council of State actually do? Where's the renewal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e123	Talk about following the wrong way in the hour! In the 2007 NHO Competition Survey, a reading under Chapter 10, Bureaucracies and simplification can: ‘The work on making everyday life easier for businesses is now producing results as we see in this year’s Competitiveness Survey. Norway has improved its relative position from 2006 to 2007 by moving up to a second place, and has strengthened to say all areas.’ There is no reason to doubt here that the Government has both ambitions and, more importantly, the ability to implement measures. The most important elements that make us cut so high and go up to second place in this barometer are essentially the work we do on electronic management. It's probably the most important renewal concept. This government has a completely different policy to pursue renewal in the public sector than that of the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, since it was largely about AS-certification and postponing competition within the state and the public. This government has said that we should renew the public sector as a public sector. We are very concerned that public administration is effective. That's why we're doing a big job in the IT sector in particular. We've gone in for Miside. We've outsourced Miside. The Minister of Economic Affairs has a big commitment to Altin, linked to the business community, so that both residents and businesses are now to meet public administration online through electronic self-punishment solutions. I have heard several suggestions for, among others. e-id and standardisation – a way to identify – linked to just public administration, so that we have more services available online, especially within the health field, and not least that public IT systems should start communicating together, because they do not. today. The last renewal operation came as late as yesterday at the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion – AID – where we are now moving to electronic processing in the UDI. That should have been done a long time ago. Right-handedly sat with the municipal minister and was responsible for UDI for four years, and a run-in folders by car from the Oslo Police Station and up to the UDI. Now we get electronic tools also in that sector, and we're still working on renewing the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e143	On 22 September 2006, the evening post had a notice that the Minister of Renewal was confronted with facts from ECON showing that the waiting wage system cost Norway DKK 2.8 billion in the period 1998–2003. The councils stated that she should take a closer look at the scheme, but concluded at the same time there and at the same time as: ‘it is a social security network for those affected by migration in the country’.» [[...]] I'm not going to go into whether it's more important for public employees to have a social security network than it is for people in the private sector, and I'm not going to go into the fact that it's hardly been a single conversion since the red-green took over. Instead, I would like to ask about the following: Has the Council of State progressed somewhat with the evaluation of the waiting wage system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e155	It's a misunderstanding that the Progress Party has, and that Right has also shared for four years, that one primarily transforms by tearing people into disability or by letting them go of early retirement, as one has done in many of the changes that have taken place in the state. There are, of course, several research reports that show that both an increase in disability rates and that too many people have had early retirement – people who actually wanted to continue working. One of our major challenges in both the public and private sectors is the lack of labour. Then we cannot continue to convert neither in the state nor in the municipalities in such a way that it brings people into social security schemes. On the contrary, we must continue our efforts to get people back into work. That's why we have a completely different policy to renew the public sector. Yes, one of the first things we did was to reintroduce the security that people have in transition periods, the waiting pay arrangement, and yes, we're working on the main unions on the entire service law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e164	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e167	I record that for this government it is a big enough challenge to fill the shoes of the previous government with the ambitions that were then put on IT policy. It goes in the right direction, even though it goes a lot later than it did during the Bondevik II administration. It is quite right, as the representative Amundsen says, that few cases have been brought to the Stortinget, some of which have been raised by the Council of State on the renewal of the public sector. But there has been no lack of issues from Stortinget to the Council of State with good proposals for changes to make the public sector both more open and more service-minded. Among other things, proposals have been made for concrete objectives for opening hours in the public sector. The Consumer Inspectors had no later than 18 April a notice showing how people today are being met with closed doors when they are going to renew passports, get a sign on the car, etc. When will the Council of State do something to get a public sector characterised by openness and service?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e178	When it comes to filling shoes with the former minister, I can say that there were not very many shoes to fill. There was very little work being done. A job with Miside. It was a brilliant invention, and we've done that in terms of goals. But in the major areas, such as: Getting a common e-ID across the public sector, especially in the health field, which allows us to get started with multiple electronic services, with the security that the citizens need, and which, not least, those who are going to provide information need, we've started that. There's no listening -- the whole standard work that allows the different software in the public sector to "speak" together. Nothing was done in this area when we took over. We have sent it out on hearing – reuse of common components in different software. These are the important big things. That's what makes us able to make use of the investments we've made, in a completely different way, that public sector, public administration, works effectively through electronic tools. That's what renewal is, and we don't actually have to put a case in the Stortinget. It is a budgetary matter, and as far as I can see, the Storting has supported the budgetary proposals we have had in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e184	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e187	When you contact a public office, you should meet the service and have the feeling of being taken seriously. Accessibility and service are also the responsibility of the Council of State. The Council of State is responsible for being a driver for meeting this service and transparency in the public sector. What will the Council of State do to be a driver of increased user rights, increased public sector accessibility, so that you don't get to walk with your head bent out of an office, or experience not meeting anyone at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e194	We're doing more things in this area. Some of the last thing I've done is that I organized a community conference in March. We then invited 100 different residents from all over the country to come to us and tell us how they feel about their meeting with different public authorities. There were people who didn't represent teams and organizations, who we else meet at the lobby level, but simply people by themselves. It's clear that a meeting with the public, being met with service, with a friendly attitude, is what people are busy about. And we're doing something about that. What we do, among other things, is currently in the process of getting an even greater stake in state-owned user surveys. The answers to the user inquiries should be public, so that the statements must stick to the actual response of the user, and not least that they individually also use the results of their renewal work. I'm focusing on this on the leadership conferences I have with the State Top Leadership Forum. When it's up to them to add, I'll discuss this with the main associations, because they're the ones who're out meeting people. Here we're doing a lot of things that are related to exactly what the representative Tørersdal is busy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e203	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e206	It rarely serves a government council in honor of getting rid of its predecessors almost two years after a government change. I would like to advise the Council of State – if anything – to focus on delivering policies and putting an agenda on the important subject she is leading. I followed her predecessors very closely. That's not true what's being said about the work they did. There was a lot of good work done, which is also being carried on. I also follow so well that I know that the Council of State is doing a good job today in many areas, but needs to come out and clarify this matter. I'm going to try in the last few seconds to make a call to the Council of State in one field. Governments have shown a positive willingness to follow up Left's commitment to privacy. She has also announced that she will follow up the proposal for a Data Protection Commission, which the Left has proposed here in the storeroom. It's a tabloid case, which provides good opportunities for the Council's renewal work. When does the Data Protection Commission arrive?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e213	I had hoped that he had already been provided. We've been working with some names, but those we've been asking are busy people, so some people have had to say no. That means that we're working in the final phase with the last people, so he gets right around the corner. As the representative Lars Sponheim was in, this is an area on which the Left has been hard on, and on which we are also hard on. We have great pleasure in having support in Stortingen for the work we do, and in being challenged. I've said that before. We've done other things in this area. I have e.g. I had a hearing like this about access to e-mails, which go the same way. What I, and I'm going to believe, too, is that even though we're now putting down a privacy commission, it doesn't mean that we're going to park all the debates about privacy in the public space, nor in the Storting. On the contrary, we put down a data protection commission to get more debate, to get more voices into the debates on privacy, which are important. I hope you'll continue to challenge this, even if we're now putting down a data protection commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e222	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e225	My question goes to State Council Dag Terje Andersen. What I'm holding here is a facsimile from Rana Blade, taken some time before the 2006 big shot. It shows approx. Six thousand demonstrators who met with torches to show their support to the red-green representatives, the red-green parties, who had promised the Rana community and other industrial communities that only they won the election, were to secure a new industrial power system with lower energy prices, i.e. a special price for the Norwegian process industry in particular. It was said that this was feasible, that it was simple, and that it was feasible. At the same time, it was stated that the previous government lacked the ability and willingness to get this in place. This was simple, it was said. From the red-green representatives around the country and the beach, in any industrial community, it was said that this matter had first priority, and that it would take a short time before it was implemented. On the right, which in every respect seeks to safeguard the interests of Norwegian industrial communities and Norwegian industrial workers, cautioned strongly. Yesterday came the revised national budget. The shock message to those who had believed in the red-green promises came yesterday, and was the final confirmation that the Government has given up this promise. It is said that this is not simple – as we warned against. It is said that the government is working on this further. What was supposed to take 14 days has now taken almost two years. Now you give up. Will the Council of State take the opportunity to apologize to tens of thousands of workers for not being able to make the most of the 2006 election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e236	As the representative said, further work on the industrial power regime is mentioned in the revised national budget. As both the representative and the president know, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is dealing with this matter. If that's okay, I can still answer. It's not the first time someone has seen no difference between me and the Council of State Enoxen! What is contained in the revised national budget is absolutely correct. The government is still working on finding an industrial power regime under the EEA Agreement legislation. We are concerned that the industrial power regime we are going to come up with should not only be a proposal that is subject to EU and ESA competition criticism. We're going to make sure that the regime we're putting forward will withstand the Competition Authority's review. This is why, as mentioned in the revised national budget, a number of models are being pursued which aim to contribute to the long-term stability of the industrialised enterprises in Norway. I can give you one example of that. France has, without being charged by the EU, made a model in which companies can jointly participate in a consortium and jointly purchase long-term, good industrial energy agreements such as: may take into account fluctuations in the final product price or commodity price. In this way, it is possible to establish systems that are both in line with the legislation and provide good industrial power regimes. There is one model that will be further worked on. So we have not abandoned the proposal on industrial power. It is announced how to continue working on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e243	I will acknowledge that it is sometimes quite difficult to see the difference between the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Energy, even in the light of day – and especially in these issues. The council chose not to answer the question, he says this is not my table. What is ‘my table’ other than to safeguard the interests of Norwegian industrial communities? The essence of this is not to say that we are continuing to work on the matter, and to give Bjälvfossen, Mo in Rana, Karmøy or tens of other industrial communities new hopes. Norwegian industry has lost two years to wait – those who are proud of the promises. According to Stavanger Aftenblad on 9 August 2005, the country's current Prime Minister said that a new socialist government will offer electricity to the industry at below market prices. I repeat my question: will the Council of State now take the opportunity to ask the tens of thousands of employees and Norwegian industrial communities who believed in the promises, for an apology for their choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e250	So I have not rejected the question because it is not on my table, I have answered it even if it is not on my table, because I am very concerned about business and industrial power. That's why it's right that several departments work closely together on this issue, which is formally in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. We haven't said that it's easy to create a regime that can withstand ESA's oversight. We've said that we're going to create a system that can withstand ESA testing, so that the companies that get good industrial contracts in the future can be sure that something will last, which provides the basis for planning the future business. There is no doubt that here this government has a completely different activity than the former government to which the representative Kristiansen referred. It's a difficult and challenging job. That's why we're going to go into it thoroughly, and the government council with responsibility is working weekly on the question, and it's going to deliver good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e256	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e259	I agree that it is most appropriate that the Government apologizes for the broken promises: the election vow to industry and the voters, where they were promised that these were things that the Government would easily fix, and the statements in relation to the criticism that the red-green parties brought against the Bondevik II government, where they claimed that it was only political will of the previous government that it stood on, because the room for action within the EEA legislation was large. First, an industrial power regime was promised last December. It was not delivered. Secondly, the Minister of Energy promised that this would be revised. I quote from the Nations on April 12th this year, where Minister of Energy, Enoxen, says: ‘A proposal for a new industrial power regime will be included in the revised national budget.’ This isn't so hard to understand. Everyone is aware that the Government is working on this. What we want is the results that the government has promised for a long time, but that it has not delivered. The question is, for example, simple: Does the Council of State think that the promise of energy minister Enoch has been fulfilled in the nations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e271	Yes, of course. In the case of industry, which is dependent on power, the current government parties have not said that this can be resolved in 14 days or one month. We have said in the Soria Moria statement that we need to find a solution to this matter, and the Soria Moria statement applies to this entire four-year period. However, I think it is a significant point for predictability in the Norwegian industry that on the day the regime is in place, one can be sure that there is something that tolerates the review of the Competition Authority, so that one knows that one can plan for many years ahead with the limits given then. That gives us stability. It gives predictability. And that's what the Minister of Oil and Energy is working towards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e278	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e281	Industry, municipalities and workers have waited a long time for the Government to show political power in the case of the Norwegian industrial power regime. EU countries such as France, on which the Council of State itself was involved — and also Finland — are in the process of putting in place schemes that ensure domestic industry more power at good, internationally competitive prices. The force is involved and secures jobs. This shows that it is completely possible to get to a regime. But the government's message is that it should work long-term, and it's too bad in relation to all these promises that were made. There was an election campaign in many cities where members of the Joint Union were promised that this would take place – only they voted for the Workers' Party. But the message from the Labour Party government – the dominant Labour Party government – is that this is very difficult. I note that the Council of State finds it difficult to apologize for all of these who are disappointed today. But my question is, What power regime is it possible to put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e286	The power regime to be put in place is to be presented by the Minister of Oil and Energy, and to the extent that it would leak something before it is finished, at least there is no other Council of State going to do so. I suggested some guidelines that I know the Minister for Oil and Energy is working on, among other things. the French system. We also know that e.g. State power and other market power are included in long-term industrial power agreements which fluctuate in relation to both currency, final product price, commodity price, etc. There are many possibilities to combine solutions that can provide more predictability. In the work now being done by the Danish State Council, he has close contact not only with ESA, but also with Norwegian industry – and for the sake of the trade union movement, to which I think it is nice that the Christian People's Party's representative refers – to explore with them and explore the possibilities that provide the secure power regime for the future. Of course, they are impatient, but they understand that we need to find a system that tolerates ESA control.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e293	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e296	Unfortunately, there is a great danger that the break-up of the red-green parties will lead to the loss of a large number of jobs. Indeed, it is enterprises that have had the opportunity to conclude power agreements of 18 to 19 to 20 øre – favourable agreements that they have failed to conclude because they have prided themselves on the promises of red-green politicians to establish an even more favourable political power regime. So we see today that the Council of State will not apologize to those who have believed that there would be a quick clarification because this was completely uncomplicated if only one had the will. But if he doesn't want to apologize, he can at least give advice to them around the companies that don't know what to do. Will he advise these companies to wait yet a few years for a clarification, or will he advise them to find a solution in the market and thus get predictable framework conditions further?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e301	I do not see it as my task to act as an industrial adviser or, for that matter, a power market adviser from Stortinget's pulpit and give advice to the business community. But what I want to say surprises me is that the left is now impatient to get Norwegian heavy industry good framework conditions, when we look at the discussions we have often had about the special conditions these companies have in relation to some forms of emissions, for example. To the extent that in the Left and the other two former government parties now are impatient after this government is going to do what the previous government did not or would not have done in terms of the power regime, I see it as a support for the Government and a support for the work of the Minister of Energy. That, I think, is a good basis for being offensive in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e306	Petter Løvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e309	I understand that the Council of State does not want to apologize for the broken promises that have occurred. But it must certainly be in place to ask whether this in some way does not have to have consequences, because this applies to very many important communities and very many jobs in industry in large parts of the country. What's happened here is that we're now getting a number of ways of worsening the situation in relation to what the Bondevik II government put up to, among other things. in the case of tax laws applicable to business. What you see on the right is the total framework conditions. Power prices are one of these, but also taxes and other framework conditions. And the question is, can the Council of State now think that one can go in to compensate for these broken promises, for example. by voting in favour of what the Bondevik II Government proposed in its last budget, namely significant improvements in depreciation rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e317	There is no reason to apologize for what we have said about the industrial power regime and the importance for Norwegian industry. There's reason to do what you can to follow it up, and that's what the government is working on. I think it's a better alternative than to apologize and walk away from it. We're going to follow it up. I think it is completely unnatural that we should discuss depreciation rates in the Norwegian industry in connection with the industrial power regime. Depreciation rates should, as far as possible – and I think most parties agree – reflect the actual life of the investment object. And then there might be disagreement about what is the actual lifetime -- I'm aware that there are some different rates in the different countries. But that it was to be part of the industrial power regime, I think it would be unnatural.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e324	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e327	I also have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. Together with, among others: large sections of the trade union movement are seriously concerned by the consequences of the EU Services Directive. We see a real danger that the EU Directive can in practice increase the scope of social dumping. It is likely that the directive will be toughest where there are no tariff agreements, but many also fear that the directive can put tariff wage and working conditions under pressure. In order to achieve an internal compromise in the EU, the health sector signed out of the Directive. However, a few days ago, the EU Parliament’s Internal Market Committee decided to call on the EU Commission to nevertheless include the health sector in the Services Directive. This is alarming. The European Trade Union Confederation, known as Euro-LO, is now drawing out with a strong warning that the Directive applies to the health sector. In a week's time, the European Parliament is going to deal with the controversial proposal, as well as the plurality of the plurality of the plurality, it seems that we need to look at new forwards in order to extend the Services Directive to new areas. I would therefore ask the Minister of Industry and Trade to answer two questions, firstly, does the Government share its opposition to incorporating the health sector into the Services Directive? And can the Council of States now guarantee that we will have a thorough and independent analysis of the impact of the EU directive before taking a position on whether Norway should reserve itself against the directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e340	First to question No. 2, because it is easy to answer – I can answer yes. There is already evidence that, while a regular treatment period within the EEA to say whether a directive is relevant and acceptable – as it says in that language – we are eight weeks, have constantly committed to spending significantly more time than that, as proved by the fact that we are now in May and are still going through the many consultation opinions that have been received on the directive. For the Norwegian government as for many others, there is an important clarification – and this is a process that has gone on for a long time – that the representative Sørfonn pointed out in relation to the health care system and that it is outside the directive. What is obvious is that that type of activity is in any case part of the EEA Agreement. The Directive regulates matters which had to be decided substantially in the EU legal system in the past. So there's no significant change in relation to that. I am pleased with Mr Sørfonn's commitment to both professional rights in general and to measures against social dumping in particular. I must also be allowed to comment that the measures now proposed by the Government to combat social dumping are clearly within the scope of the service directive that this is being asked about. So we're going to add up to a very thorough treatment. We're going to turn on each stone and go through all the questions before we finally conclude on the Services Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e351	I thank you for the answer, but I have a couple of follow-up questions. It is a fact that from time to time it has been a little difficult for the Storting to see how the Government actually works to assess the impact of the Services Directive. Åslaug Haga was very clear at the Central Party's national meeting that if you don't know the consequences, you wouldn't say yes to the Services Directive. And Kristin Halvorsen said something in the same vein during SV's national meeting. But the question is, can the Council of State be a little more specific about how to proceed in order to obtain all the consequences of the Services Directive? In order to help the Council of State a little bit along the way, I come up with one more question: will the Council of State agree that an impact assessment of the Services Directive is carried out by independent competence and expertise, not only by its own people?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e358	We already have a number of opinions and analyses on the importance of the Services Directive. Many of them actually stem from the first draft service directive, which we – we have agreed on from Norway, I have the impression – have at least changed significantly, along with many others in Europe. The current directive has therefore been substantially amended from previous directives. We are now working on going through the point by point all the questions that arise, with neutral people, and I assume that the representative Sørfonn and I agree that the Norwegian civil service belongs to the category of ‘neutral people’ when it comes to going through factual, legal texts. However, I can assure the representative Sørfonn that we will have a thorough review of all the concerns raised in relation to the Services Directive before the Government comes to its final conclusion on whether the Directive is acceptable and relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e363	There will be four follow-up questions – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e366	The Council of State just said that there are a number of opinions and hearings. Nevertheless, we note that the Senterpartiet and SV have said no to the Services Directive. We also record from the County Annual Meetings in the Workers' Party that a number of states in the Workers' Party say no, and that we want the Council of State to take an extra round and not to take an emergency treatment with regard to the Services Directive. You can start to wonder how long the round of penalties that the states of the Workers' Party have asked the State Council to go is, and my question is then: When can we expect to get the Services Directive to the Stortinget? Or is it still such that the handcuff is completely on in your own organisation and in the Center Party and SV makes it impossible to get the case up to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e371	I can immediately say that the Government has not notified Stortinget, and that is why I am not doing so now, when the Services Directive is presented. I had the impression on the main questioner that it was important that we went thoroughly through the Services Directive, and that is what the Government intends to do. Then I am not aware that the SV or the Center Party have said an absolute no to the Services Directive in connection with their national meetings. At least the Labour Party has not done so, but we have agreed on the same thing as the main questioner said that there is reason to go thoroughly into all aspects of the Services Directive before we conclude, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e378	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e381	An overall opposition has written a letter to the country's prime minister asking for an explanation of the Services Directive from the Government at a much earlier time than this, and I am really surprised that the Government chooses to ignore what a collective opposition has asked for. There is a lot of mythology around the Services Directive and the Services sector. Nine out of ten new jobs in Europe will come in the service sector. We know that there is a lot of room to expand the Norwegian service sector. We know that the government before this became so politically opposed, on a professional basis, that there was no basis for making any changes to the social dumping legislation in Norway due to the new Services Directive before it was improved by the European Parliament. Then is my question to the Council of State responsible for trade in services, because it is the Minister of Industry in Norway: does he agree with what the Euro-LO believes, what the rest of Europe thinks, that the service sector requires more trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e389	Firstly, a comment in relation to the address to the Prime Minister: As the representative Solberg is familiar with, there was about the same period of time in the Stortinget where the Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke on this very issue. So the question was addressed from the Government – just so it is not left that the Prime Minister has received an enquiry that has not been commented on by the Government. We are all aware that services are one of the fundamental freedoms in Europe, and that it is relevant to have a directive on it this way, thematically, there is no disagreement about. The situation that has existed in the past, in that the legal situation in this area is largely determined by a number of legal acts, is not transparent either for Norwegians who are to participate in service production/export, or for those who provide services in Norway from abroad, or in relation to the possibilities to take care of the legislation in relation to it – so there is a need to clean up the situation. So that's the content we're now evaluating.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e396	Anne Margrethe Larsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e399	The Services Directive and now, after the events of the last days, the question of whether healthcare should be admitted, trigger a strong commitment. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said here in Stortinget by February that he would come back with a thorough response to the opposition and that the opposition would be taken seriously. But since then we have heard very little from the Government in this matter. Transparency was just an important key in St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, on the implementation of European policy, which the whole of the United Kingdom has recently given its support, and the Left believes that the main guarantee of an open process is now to have the full scope of the Services Directive in the Grand Duchy. I ask again, when can the Storting get the Services Directive processed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e404	As I have already said, the government has not notified when the matter is to be brought before the Storting, but it is really a good answer to the representative's first question, because working thoroughly with the Services Directive and transparency is the very basis for that – that we are working so thoroughly. After all, it is the case with this Services Directive that, when we have now sent it to the hearing, we have sent it out for a longer period than is usual in the case of consultations on EEA Directives, but in addition, it is actually the third time that this issue is being put to consultation in Norway. So you can think a lot about the Services Directive, but that it has not been dealt with in a particularly thorough and broad way, is at least wrong, and I believe that the representative and I agree – here it has been a particularly broad treatment, and will be the final conclusion. I have registered in the media that some are trying to present it as if I have tried to rush through this matter as a state councillor or government. It's directly wrong. The situation with regard to this matter is that it is subject to particularly thorough, broad treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e409	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e412	The Services Directive is the biggest issue we have in relation to the EU per. Now. There is clearly a great deal of concern about the matter, both within the government parties and, as we see, also in the LO. I stand here with two letters sent to the Prime Minister, and in the last letter there is an overall opposition, which has already been mentioned, asking the Stortinget to get a statement on the matter. Then, in my opinion, it's unwise for a majority government to answer something like that: Yes, calm down, it's going to come when we decide. The opposition on Stortinget wants a statement of the state of affairs at the moment. Can the Minister promise that such a statement will be made? It is not a matter of waiting for the matter to be settled in the Government. It's about getting a statement about the position at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e417	I would not think it was unnatural if, in connection with other matters related to Europe, it could be explained where the matter is in the Government. I know that there are also sometimes opportunities for the Minister of Trade for example. to meet with the appropriate body of the Stortinget. However, formal contacts between the government and enlargement must, of course, be such that the government has a proposal for a conclusion when the matter is to be submitted to the Stortinget. I believe that the working order and the division of labour between big business and government are well served.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e422	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e425	My question, as the Council of State has put together today, could have been addressed to every state council, because it concerns everyone. It is therefore right to ask the Minister of Renewal, who has the special responsibility of the Government to supervise his colleagues and the operation of the departments. It's about secrecy and openness. Let me first say that it is absolutely essential in our democracy that power should be balanced between the various powers of the state, and that the rulers should be seen in the cards of the citizens and of the press, and that citizens should have the greatest possible transparency. This is about the many issues, not the individual matter we hear about, but the many issues in which it can often be convenient for the individual case handler to use the key button ‘avoided publicity’. Now the statistics for 2006 have come, and it shows that 8,579 cases are kept secret in the red-green government. So every five documents are classified, 20 pst. is the percentage that has been neglected for publicity purposes. There is great variation between departments. The Verstingministeriet is the Ministry of Industry and Trade, where almost every third document is kept secret, 31.4 pst. In the wrestling class is also the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast, with 27.1 pst. We also see that there are many departments that have useful numbers. It is in particular the labour-participated department, showing the statistics. It's in an old tradition – we alone know the best-position, and what citizens, voters, don't know, they don't hurt either. This has been a long tradition. The figures give strong reactions, from the Civil Ombudsman, the Public Service and the Press Federation. The Secretary of State of the Minister of Renewal points out that, unfortunately, she understands very little of the importance of openness and says, ‘The issues asked for transparency are often the most controversial.’ Is this something the Minister of Renewal can be proud of?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e436	The Soria Moria declaration is permeated by the manipulation of ‘openness’ and ‘transparency’, and I still have it as one of the five main points when we talk about the Government’s policy of renewal, that we should contribute to the openness and transparency of its decisions. Now we're doing two concrete things. The one thing I caught immediately when I arrived in the department was to create a new electronic postbook. At present, there is a limited number within the media, 40, which has the possibility of accessing the ministry's postal records. That system was completed. It was in the department, but nothing was done about it. It was one of the first things we caught up with, and it is now being introduced from 1 January 2008. It means that growth representatives, each individual resident in this country and the rest of the media that per. Today, the new system will not be transparent. It's one of the important things we do to make one understand what the government is doing. The second thing we're dealing with now is a review of the state's information policy. There have been real criticisms from the media that the departments have different practices for those who answer questions, whether they can talk directly to the government, or whether they should go through the information staff. We've got a hold of that. We are working on getting to a Round Table conference now in spring with, among other things. The media, people who have competence in the development of the media community, and ourselves to discuss what the state's information policy should look like in 2007. Much has changed since 2000–2001, when a last revised information policy. Then one will also go through and look at the different departments' practices when it comes to openness. But it is clear that there are legitimate grounds for not being transparent – we are working on things that may be controversial, and there may be other things. When we are working on a case-by-case approach, it may be legitimate to avoid transparency, such as: when we talk about oil drilling, where I know the previous government also had things that were underestimated transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e445	I think I would like the supplementary question to go to the head of what is in this context the Ministry of Wrestling, namely the Minister of Food and Trade. The statistics show that it's going in the wrong direction. That's the problem. There are worse numbers than what was delivered earlier, and it shows that there is not enough focus on this. Now the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has the advantage that he does not have a big issue in 2006, so he has an opportunity to use quite blank sheets. I myself have had the pleasure of leading the same department – in the last century – as the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade now heads. Then the situation was quite the same, and I spent a lot of time introducing a culture of transparency. I introduced an transparency poster. I set a high threshold to take the easy stamp called ‘except publicity’. In view of this and the very ugly figures in 2006, will the Council of State contribute to a culture of transparency around this? The Ministry of Economic Affairs is a demanding department, because it has a kind of case where there are many business secrets. It's perfectly legitimate, but it's obvious that things are being neglected publicity far beyond that. After the meeting, I would like to have a copy of the transparency poster that in its time was located in the branch offices of the Ministry of Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e453	I think I'm going to meet the representative's input in a positive way and say that it's right to focus on this continuously. It is quite right, as the representative Sponheim says – with his experience from the Ministry of Industry and Trade – that businesses in Norway must be able to contact the Ministry of Industry and Trade and tell them about business secrets without it coming out. Therefore, it is natural for us to take care of some other of the representatives of Sponheim's children, small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, by being able to contact us without being published. But I agree with the representative Sponheim that ‘except publicity’ should only be used when imperative, not for convenience. I am aware that the representative of Sponheim knows that it is not the Council of State that sits in the middle of the hall and says, "Avoid this from the public." But that there may still be reason to be aware of, and insist that one should have a high threshold to stamp something ‘not publicly’, I think is a good and timely reminder.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e460	There will be follow-up questions – first Åge Starheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e463	I want to ask the question to the councillor Heidi Grande Røys. It's a little interesting when the Council of State points out that the Soria Moria statement is permeated by the fact that one should hold an open line, while the Council of State says there are legitimate grounds for letting things be publicized. I thought that the public law was so reasonablely clear that there should be no doubt about what is allowed, and what is not allowed. When we hear that there are over 8,500 cases that are secretive, it must be a problem for the minister to stick to this. I would like to say that when one has to go to the highest level – to the Prime Minister – for example. Getting the report out of the Coastal Works shows with all clarity that something is failing here. Does the Council of State think this is going the right way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e472	It's completely impossible for me to keep to a number, because I don't know what matters are behind that number. What I said was that the government is busy with, and that the Minister of Industry also confirmed, is that we should have the most openness and transparency in the decisions we make in matters that are important and that there is no reason to keep out of the public eye. But as I also say, it's perfectly legitimate that one also has matters that are important to keep out of the public eye, because of business secrets. It may be in the Ministry of Industry, and not least in the Ministry of Oil and Energy — another major department. But it's clear that we need to focus on openness and transparency. It is precisely because we now from the New Year introduce a new electronic mail journal that provides transparency. Per. Today, the deposit representatives do not have access to the post-journals in the government quarter. They get that from 1 January. I hope that the representatives of the population will continue to work to see what the government is doing, precisely because we are concerned that there should be openness and debate about the decisions we are making. So this I look forward to with just positive joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e481	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e484	My question goes to the state councillor Helga Pedersen. One of the departments most exempt from the public is the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. I think it's number. 4 on the staging list. In that statistics, there is also a report that was very critical of — and critical of — Norwegian oil protection preparedness. In a report in the autumn of 2005, which Helga Pedersen, the Council of State exempted from public disclosure, wrote that in order to keep up with developments in coastal transport, 50 million had to be allocated. kr in 2006 to keep the oil protection system up, and SEK 70 million. kr in the current year. The State Council of Pedersen did not inform the public, thus exempting it from the public for 1 1/2 years, or the Stortinget. Does the State Council of Helga Pedersen now see that she should not have excluded this report from public opinion, and that she should have informed the Stortinget in a staging proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e493	The representative Børge Burnde acts as if that report had not been published. It has been published and has been known for several months, and everyone has the opportunity to discuss oil protection on the basis of the figures there. The representative Brende suggests in his question that consideration should be given to this government, which was in a way the basis for not being published immediately, but this report is dated October 2005 and, of course, establishes the status of oil protection as it was when the Bondevik government left the offices. In that report, there is also a aftermath from the time when Environment Minister Børge Brende was responsible for oil protection. A report submitted by the SFT in 2001 pointed out that there was a need for between 60 and 100 million. Three years. There were appropriations that the then Minister for the Environment did not follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e500	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e503	My question goes to the Minister of Renewal and Administration. We do not need more round table conferences, but we need clear notice from the Council of State in each department that the Public Service Act should be followed. It duly sorting which documents are to be publicly available and which are to be exempted. There are two main problems today. Developments are going in the wrong direction in many departments. It's more secret than it was in the previous government. The second main problem is that when a person examines the decisions that lie behind secrecy, they are in many cases not in accordance with the Public Health Act. So a decision on secrecy is made on the wrong basis. That means that we have a government that in many departments is governed by state councils that have not given clear signals in this area, unlike what was done in the previous government. Will the Council of State ensure that monthly reporting is now available on how many issues are excluded from transparency in each department and that this overview becomes publicly available?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e514	As I have said several times now, this government is busy with openness and transparency in the administration, also in the decisions of the Government. It would be quite wrong to say that we do not need a round table conference. Of course we do. The point is, as I say, that when we are going to have a review of the state's information policy that goes on the media, they get in touch when they call the ministry – they get to talk to case handlers who have the legal responsibility in the area as defined in the information policy per. Today, or you have to go through the information departments. How is the media image today compared with 2001? Obviously, the media image has changed a lot. We now have online newspapers, web news, mobile news. We have completely different channels for new people than we had in 2001. It challenges the way we run information policies, the way we politicians communicate with the media. I thought it was interesting. It's just strange that not the representative Kvassheim thought it was interesting to sit down with the media, with people with competence in the field, and take a discussion around it. I think it's going to be an interesting discussion, and it'll hopefully lead us to pursue a better information policy afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e519	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e523	I want to ask a question to State Councillor Andersen. Last year, just before the start of the tourist season, the Government introduced at night a quota limit of 15 kilograms for exports of fish caught by tourists. This, of course, came as a shock to the industry, and there were strong protests. There was a total industry that went against this sudden introduction of this legislation. The tourist industry also feared that there would be a strong decline. In today's Business, we can read about the consequences of the Government's policy: ‘Of nearly 20 operators DN have been in contact with, more than half have a noticeable failure in the orders, some as much as 30-40 percent.’ Among other things, a company in the Salt Stream in Northern Ireland has a decline of over 40 p.m. and has experienced a failure in revenue from 2 million. kr in 2005 for an expected income of 1 million. kr in year. At the same time, the researchers say that this is a small, accurate tool. Last year, the Progress Party proposed to remove this restriction. When the Government now sees the consequences of its own policy, will it remove this 15 kilo quota cap?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e539	For the sake of order only: it is another Council of State present that has introduced that quota and its rules are actually in the Ministry of Fisheries. As far as the Ministry of Fisheries is concerned, I left as a substitute immediately after Easter, and the actual Council of State has come back. However, I would like to reply on the basis of the travel perspective, as the representative of Korsberg mentions. I think it's a little too simple analysis to say that the fact that you don't have the opportunity to take more than 15 kilos of fish fillets out of the country is the reason for the reduction in orders for the travel businesses from 30-40 pst. I did not see it that the representative of Korsberg claimed that it was the only possible and direct explanation. It is clear that we also follow the consequences of travel life of the decisions we are making. There are currently no plans to remove the roof, and there are currently no plans to raise the ceiling – it could also be an alternative. So the government hasn't notified it now. In that case, it would be natural to mention it in the context of the revised national budget. But of course, we're going to follow up on the information we get. The government is now working on a travel strategy. In this context, my department cooperates very closely with the tourism industry in Norway and places great emphasis on the input we receive. To the extent that it would be a major issue related to our work on the travel strategy, there is also an opportunity to assess the issue. But we don't have any plans to change the limit of 15 kilograms now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e550	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am at least happy that he admits that travel life is his territory. I would like to ask Mr Pedersen a follow-up question. Coastal business looks at opportunities for more legs to stand on, including in coastal fleets. One of the recordings we've received in the Progress Party comes from the coastal fleet, which asks us for an opportunity to be able to engage in tourist fishing. Today the legislation is such that it is not possible to do so. At its national meeting, the Progress Party adopted a resolution asking the Government to open up ‘sharks and other fishing boats are allowed to use its quotas to allow tourists to fish on their fishing boats’. Will the Government follow up that initiative and ensure that there is an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e559	For this government, it is important that the population along the coast has more legs to stand on. It is important for us to take care of and further develop the fishing industry. Sustainable management of fjord and marine resources is an important prerequisite for this. The government is very positive that fishermen should also be able to take tourists to the sea. Very well known, there is no restriction on coastal fishermen to include tourists at sea and quota fishing. Requirements exist for the equipment of boats and rules to ensure safety. I believe that this is important for the sake of fishermen, tourists and industry as such. But the government is, as I said, very positive that the fishermen should be able to take tourists to the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e566	There will be three follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e569	I want to ask a follow-up question to the Minister of Industry. Here we see symbolism policies in the Ministry of Fisheries destroying the tourism industry, although it is obvious that the value creation of Norway as a nation is significantly greater if one kilogram of fish gets caught by a tourist than if it gets caught in the usual way. Here, the Minister of Industry, as a travel agent, has obviously slept an hour when this matter was dealt with in the Government. But not just that. At the same time, we see that the introduction of the NOx tax leads to the growth we have experienced in cruise travel, where people enter the fjords and visit Norwegian travel destinations, being severely affected by a tax that only has a symbolic effect in this context. For no one wants to install a sewage treatment plant for ten million kroner on a cruise ship only to visit a fjord as stop no. 2 on a visit to Norway. Does the Minister for Travel not see that he has a responsibility to care for the interests of travel when these kinds of symbolic issues go through in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e579	I can assure you that, as Minister of Industry – and to the extent that today’s oral Question Time bears the mark – I am engaged in many issues that are dealt with in departments other than my own department, for the sake of business interests, and of course follow it. With regard to NOx emissions, it is that we have a common responsibility to ensure that we put in place measures that allow our commitments under the Gothenburg Protocol to be met, in order to release less poison into nature. If you think a little bit more fundamentally about the tourism activity in Norway, I am convinced that what was recently the theme of Oslo, organic travel, and what we are working on in relation to our travel life strategy, which is about a green and sustainable travel life, is not compatible in the long term with the fact that we should not be indifferent to emissions from travel life or, for that matter, the management of fishing resources in Norway. In the long term, I am convinced that the profile we have in acting environmentally sound is also the right travel policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e589	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e592	I choose to ask follow-up questions to the Minister for Fisheries. Rorbu fishing tourism has been too many a little hidden, but amazing success in recent years. Innovation Norway launched a major project like that, when the evaluation came a couple of years ago, it turned out to have given a turnover of DKK 3 billion and created around 1000 new jobs, which have been added to other things – a fantastic success. The evaluation also showed that this generated large added values back to the commodity cod. The fishers were paid 40 kroner for the fish. The fishermen paid, after they had paid for stay, travel and such, 400 kroner for cod when they got the experience of fishing cod. It's a great added value. Now it is reported that the 15 kilo limit is a limitation for the industry and added value that can be created. I choose to challenge the state council, not to change it now, but to elaborate on how the individual fish can go out to the rudder arches and take the tourists, and take out the 400 kroner per. kilograms in a completely different way than they can today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e599	This is a problem that the Government is very concerned about. That is why we also have a dialogue with fishermen's organisations as well as with the NHO Travel Life on how to develop fishing tourism further. I fully agree that it is important to get the most out of the kroner per person. kilos of fish. That is why it has been important for us to facilitate the fact that the fishing tourism that takes place is just about to give value to the rudder arches, guides and fishermen who take tourists to the sea. We don't want tourists to come fishing as much as they just do, fill the freezer and get out of here. With the limit of 15 kilos of fillet, tourists can both bring back a trophy fish of any size and, in fact, fish 60-70 kilos, which they fillet and take back. So I believe that the challenges ahead are to develop good travel life offers and to drive up skills and... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e606	The President reminds us that speaking time must be respected. Jan-Henrik Fredriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e612	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries and Coast. We see in the revised national budget that the municipality of Gamvik has received 5 million. kr in conversion funds. It could be good. The reason they get it is that they are being deprived of the opportunity to continue their farming. Every day in the districts, we experience that municipalities and businesses are deprived of the possibility of feeding through land-banding. I can refer here to the municipality of South Varanger. We could today have had between 50 and 70 jobs related to oil transhipment. Does the Minister for Fisheries think that it is a healthier and more appropriate policy to contribute to conversion instead of organising policies that allow business development in rural areas to be pursued?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e619	The President cannot see that this is a follow-up question to the main question, but will leave it to the Council of State to decide whether to answer the question anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e622	Thank you for the question. I would very much like to answer that, because this government is committed to ensuring activity throughout the country, and that it is going to happen in a sustainable way. Then I record that the government's arrangement for national salmon fjords and the decision taken yesterday at Stortinget have been a source of joy in the Fisheries and Aquaculture Association. They are very pleased that they are now freed from land that has been tied and that can now be used for farming. I record that the local population at Sjenes is very pleased with the conversion fund that was granted over the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. The government has an active north-eastern policy, such as: South Varanger benefits the municipality. With regard to the very specific issue of oil transhipment in Bøkfjorden, it is a matter that is now under consideration in the Ministry of the Environment and that I cannot pre-empt the answer to here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e631	The story goes to the last main question, from the representative Petter Løvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e634	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs a question. The fishing industry is very important, both for our national economy as a very large exporter and currency maker, and especially for the coast, both for settlement and activity. Fishing is currently without subsidies. The fishing industry pays its taxes and taxes as others and provides a great deal to the community. Very much goes well in fishing, but they wear, among other things. with the recruitment of young people to the industry, and the wear and tear with difficult competitive conditions in relation to other industries. If we are to achieve growth and development, we need jobs that are profitable and in which young people can see a good and secure future. Understandably, what has happened in the last few years when it comes to the framework conditions for fishing – with several political changes, that is, from the plurality in this room and from the government – causes some coastal areas to feel a certain disquiet. I should mention three things in particular – it could probably have been mentioned more: it is the NOx charge that is imposed; it is that the industry is now likely to have to pay for parts of what the state had to pay to the state research institute NOFIMA, and not least the intensifications that have been proposed – and which the Storting is unfortunately going to adopt within a short time – in the possibilities of operating profitably through fleet structuring. Then the question is, isn't the council concerned about the total picture? There are many who go in good times with good quotas and good prices. But is not the Council of State concerned about future Norwegian fishing industries when the industry gets so many things in addition to ordinary taxes, taxes and restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e646	I have to say I am very optimistic on behalf of the Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industry. Things are going very well in both industries right now. That's also going to happen in the years to come. The government has now presented a proposal for future structural policy, which will soon be discussed here in Stortinget. This has been the basis for a very broad process against communities, counties, industry organisations, etc. I believe that this is a very good basis for the structural policies of the future. I believe that the message in a very good way balances the consideration that we should both have a modern, varied and profitable fleet and a fleet that ensures activity along the whole coast. Having a fleet spread across the coast also means that we ensure the basis for the activity on land and for the people living in local communities along the coast, whether they are nursery workers or suppliers of the fishing industry. The government has a strong focus on the marine sector. The NOx obligations are something that we have inherited from the previous government, which did not commit a great deal of sin to get to grips with those processes. There we are in a constructive dialogue with industry organisations on, among other things, setting up an environmental agreement. I'm optimistic about the outcome of that process, both in terms of industry and in relation to our environmental obligations. We're also going to put the NOFIMA in place, where we took over the staf stick after the previous government. I think it will be a good, strong and heavy research institution for the benefit of Norwegian fishing industry in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e658	I thank you for your answer. No one disagrees that we want the activity spread along the coast, and no one disagrees that NOFIMA can be a good setup. But it has never been in mind – at least not in the former government – that this should be financed by the fishermen themselves, as it is now set up. What I'm missing in the answer from the Council of State -- I share the optimism, but there are limits to how much one can extract from an industry, even in optimistic moments -- is something about the total image when they get these enhancements. Because what the industry itself says is that several of these things I'm talking about mean clear improvements in framework conditions. I don't think we're going to spend good time thinning an industry that will be able to provide us with very high incomes and very high activity along the coast forever. So I want to repeat the question, isn't the council worried about the total picture? And are there any ways of compensating for these deteriorations that the Council of State can go in for?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e665	I do not share the opinion of the representative Løvik that we are making it worse for the fishing industry. On the contrary, this government has an offensive policy for Norwegian fishing industry and for the population along the coast. As regards the structural message, there have been different reactions to it. It's been a lot of commitment, and I think it's good. For the Government, it has been a self-reliant aim to create greater public engagement in the field of fisheries policy. Then we've had actions from fishing teams that think we're too small to structure, and from others that think we're too structured. I mean, the government has found a good balance in this. The reactions from the fishing industry to what we have presented, if you look at the whole, have also been reasonably balanced. Then I would also like to point out the massive effort we have in marine value creation, which is helping to contribute to the competence and new activity of the fishing industry in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e672	There will be three follow-up questions – first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e675	It is a little sad that the Council of State has not come to realize that there are quite a number of protests against the policy of the Government, because there are constantly changing the policy that has been pursued by previous governments and adopted here in the House. The last thing the government has done is to structure the fleet in the vessel group from 11 to 15 metres. There are very many communities and local authorities who have unanimously recommended that there be no structuring within this group. There have also been clear statements from a number of counties on exactly the same thing, one warns against this. We are followers of structure over 15 metres, but we believe that within the vessel group 11–15 metres, the impact on both the fleet group and the community should first be determined. Why has the Government not carried out an impact assessment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e680	It is not new that the fisheries policy is being debated. During the previous government, there were loud protests against the policy pursued by the Bondevik government at Svein Ludvigsen with the support of the Progress Party. The main example of this is the introduction of permanent quotas in the sea fishing fleet without presenting it to the Stortinget. It is not a means of ensuring the long-term and safe functioning of the framework conditions for the fishing industry. With regard to the structuring of the ship group 11 to 15 metres, we have opened up a cautious structure to balance the profitability of this fleet against the interests of society. At the same time, we are liquidating operating arrangements that have been a pure-bred form of quota trading. Otherwise, I register with great interest that the Progress Party is now opposed to structuring for that group. I think there are many fishermen who register with great interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e688	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e691	Norwegian fishing is an important industry, which needs stability, prudence and confidence that the framework conditions can be maintained beyond the grubbing-up period. It is important for investment, recruitment, etc. Then it is easy for a government to resort to honorary words such as ‘breeding settlements’, ‘good compromises’, etc. In the Stortinget there is now the structural message about fishing, a current and important thing that is already mentioned here. If the Council of State were to be asked by its party traps and federal traps here in the house, would she in this case suggest a compromise and a broad compromise to ensure the stability and perseverance of our important fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e698	With regard to this matter, there have been very thorough processes prior to the structural message submitted by the Government. There has been a separate, wide-ranging structure selection in work, a broad consultation round and a major debate leading up to what the Government has presented. I believe that the matter as presented, initially, is a broad settlement. Now it's on the committee. I'm not going to interfere in that work in spontaneous questioning, but if I were to venture to give advice, it had to be that the Christian People's Party joins the proposal of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e705	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e708	There is no doubt that Fisheries Minister Helga Pedersen is becoming a very expensive government council for the fishing industry. I think it is almost strange that the Council of State rejects it, when it is quite obvious that the introduction of the NOx fee has almost doubled the total level of charges for this industry in a year. The introduction of the NOx tax has been made in a way that is obviously designed to generate revenue to the country, not to reduce emissions. We also see that of the adjustments to the system that have been made in retrospect. My question concerns the NOFIMA reform. The levy on the Research Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture is based on a voluntary agreement between the industry and the Stortinget where the levy was to go to a research scheme over which the industry would have full control. Now I understand that the government wants to confiscate half of the fees in order to use the amount of basic funding within a research organisation over which the government has control. Is it not possible for businesses in Norway to trust that the settlements made with government and increases in voluntary contributions are actually maintained as the years go by?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e723	With regard to the NOx fee, I just want to show that there are constructive talks between the Government on one side and the industry on the other. The resources of the Research Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture, FHF, are not quota, nor collection, but a statutory fee to be used for marine research. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs shall provide guidance on how this charge is to be applied. The funds are managed by a board appointed by representatives of the industry. In the NOFIMA case, the Government has taken the lead in the use of some of the funds for the purchase of services through NOFIMA, but the FHF Board continues to decide how to use the money, for example. in the form of user-driven applications. I would also like to point out that an evaluation of the FHF shows that the use of the instrument has too much emphasis on the ‘U’ rather than the ‘F’ in the ‘R & D’. In 2005, 40 pst went. by the means of consultants or individual enterprises. 10 pst. the funds were used in industry’s own organisations. So it's quite obvious that we had to do something about the use of instruments anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-16.ana.ud1478e737	The oral question time is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
