ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e38	The representatives Henning Skumsvoll, Laila Davøy and Odd Einar Dørum, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Right-wing Group to the representative Petter Løvik from 7 June onwards and until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the More and Romesdal counties, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is requested to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinget from 7 June to 11 June under the leave of the representative Petter Løvik, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representatives of goods, Rolf Jarle Brøske and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e72	Rolf Jarle Bruske is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e86	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e93	The issue of waste is something that all parties, like the trade union community, are concerned about. There's an enormous commitment here on the Storting to bring down the number of drop-outs. It has been shown in the treatment of St.meld. No 16, ‘... and no one stood. Early effort for lifelong learning’, a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party, discussed in the Chamber earlier in the spring, and this proposal from the Right. I would like to point out that in the Storing Communication, a number of measures have been outlined to limit the drop-out and strengthen the advisory service. The message has been processed in Stortinget. In Document No: 8:55. Right has promoted twelve proposals. Everyone is commented on in the setting, but I would like to comment on some of them anyway. The reason why we do not support all the proposals is largely because we disagree politically. In proposal No 1 is wanted full openness about the schools, which we believe it is today. There is openness about the state and outcomes of schools. Parents, supervisors, students and school owners have access to the results of national tests and otherwise have to know how the school is located. But we don't want to add up to a ranking. Those involved have full access to the results. In proposal No 2 Please provide a concrete step-up plan for free homework. We want to extend the school day from 21 to 28 hours per. weeks on the lowest steps. Within this extension, it shall include, inter alia: facilitates learning assistance and support. This, like what is outlined in the proposal, will be free of charge. Proposal No. 4 deals with school-home cooperation. We believe that there are a number of measures in St.meld. No 16 and that the Government has a clear objective of involving parents more strongly in the schooling of children. The extension of the FUG to upper tier 1 is one of the concrete proposals we are looking forward to. Proposal No. 6 is about the transition from secondary to secondary education. Numbers show that many fall from this transition. Upon the introduction of the Knowledge promise, secondary school students are given the snuff in what the secondary education subjects are dealing with, via the programme subject of choice. Other factors that will facilitate the transition are the changes in the regulations implemented in 2006, which allow the follow-up service to cooperate with the secondary advisory service in order to prevent non-response. There are also a number of good measures in municipalities and county municipalities to facilitate this transition. Proposal No. 7 wishes to transmit to the Department. In many countries, ‘partnership for career guidance’ works very well. Examples of countries that have introduced this with positive results are Nordland, Telemark and Akershus. We ask the Ministry to evaluate these and look at the chances of a nationwide implementation. Proposal No. 8 deals with attempts to give municipalities the opportunity to conduct secondary education. Government parties consider it most appropriate that county municipalities be responsible for secondary education. Proposal No. 9 is going to give secondary schools that are able to reduce the number of drop-outs, economic incentives. We believe that extra money should not be the reason why high school work to reduce the drop-out. I want to thank the Right for the commitment around the drop-out. There is no doubt that the Government and the position at Stortinget also look with concern at this issue. Today there are enormous demands on competence, and that is the way it should be. But it makes it difficult for the poor to get through their education and get clear evidence of what they've done, and what they can actually do. I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Knowledge for having cooperated with the social partners in order to establish an apprenticeship system in which students can obtain evidence that parts of their vocational training have been completed and approved in certain professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e119	The size of the population has dealt with several cases of non-compliance with secondary education, and the government parties focus on this matter by saying that the measures under implementation will be sufficient to reduce the non-response. The party of progress fears that the passivity of the government parties in relation to new measures will lead to a high drop-out rate in secondary school. In St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 it appears that 44 pst. by students who started secondary education in the spring of 2003, there was a lack of education in the following year. What happens to those who fall from it is uncertain. Some people probably take a break, others change educational courses. But it's a fact that very many people just disappear, without the public school system knowing where they're going. The waste challenge is not strange. In Denmark, a major legislative audit has recently been carried out in order to better coordinate measures against early school drop-outs. In Denmark, approx. 95 pst. by the youth right to secondary education. ==References== 82 pst. Accomplishing. These figures show that the issue of non-response in Norway is actually dramatically greater than in Denmark, and there is reason to be very concerned about the development. In order to increase the share of implementation in Denmark, schools should be required to provide students with social and psychological assistance and to introduce their own mentoring and contact teacher system. In addition, all schools shall have their own action plans, which shall contain concrete strategies and objectives to increase their implementation. Everything shall be evaluated and published every year. The government has set itself the concrete objective of increasing its implementation from 82 p.m. today to 85 pst. in 2010. There is no such objective in Norway. Therefore, I could imagine challenging the Council of State whether he could be as specific as the Danish government. What are the concrete objectives of the Norwegian Government for the implementation of secondary education? What should the target be in 2010? The proposals put forward in this proposal for a representative are not revolutionary. That's not very much new thinking. It is a concise proposal that, together, can help to increase the capacity of students to undertake secondary education, while focusing on the issue of non-response. The government’s answer is with one exception – now it seems that there are two – that it will do nothing but what it already does. It's a little bit hard to understand. The drop-out in secondary education concerns us all – in all messages, in all speeches. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that it should worry us even more than it actually does, especially when one compares us to other countries. In order to solve major school policy challenges, a broad political commitment, or a form of political workshop, is needed. In the past, both the Council of State and the Head of Government have been so solemnly mentioned that one should cooperate across traditional party-political dividing lines. The progressing party believes that this is a very typical example of a case where you could go together much more than what the result shows. Nevertheless, I am pleased that we in the Church, Education and Research Committee have good cooperation, and that the government parties are at least involved in one joint proposal – and now it seems that there may be two – in this case. At least it's better than they're not on anything. Several of the remarks about the government parties are moving in the right direction, so that's hope, just let time work. There is hope that the proposals that will be addressed on behalf of the minority in different combinations will finally be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e136	The issue of waste in high school is very serious. Failure is a signal that someone has made a mistake, met a challenge they did not come by, or that they simply did not get the study they thought they would get. The challenge is particularly high in the professional field. The council has several times said that St.meld. No 16, on the importance of education for social cohesion, addresses this challenge. It is also repeated by the majority in that position. The focus on knowledge, on individual requirements and on recording and monitoring the state of the school that started with the Knowledge Promise is part of finding the answer to the challenge. St.meld. No 16 repeats much of the analyses from St.meld. No 30 for 2003–04, which was the basis for the promise of knowledge, but we believe that the diagnosis must be followed up by a much broader and more open approach to experimentation. The Council of State is too repatriated in relation to this. Non-response is a lack of effort challenge. So we also think that we need a lot of different angles of incidence. Governments are concerned with aligning School-Norway. We are committed to finding solutions for the individual and on the challenge. The rates of drop-outs we see in high school are a sign that far from all people find themselves at ease in today's school. It should imply humility towards a diversity of approaches to the challenges. We as proposers should perhaps be satisfied – two proposals have received full support. One confirms that the majority will be mentioned when the State budget is promoted to the harvest, and several proposals have been referred to so-called 'honourable'. It's a better fate than most of the opposition's proposals under this government, as was the case with previous speakers. "Next, almost, no man sits on the horse," it says. We are grateful for the honour, but we lack the will for something more concrete than honest mention. This is strange, because several of the proposals will hardly require significant resources to be tested, but it requires willingness to let the system work in alternative ways. I would like to comment on a few of our proposals quite specifically. The majority believe that transparency about school results is practised, but repeats that there are only certain groups that should be transparent. We're really in doubt about both what you're talking about and how you're going to practice this. I happened to sit down and listen to NRK Radio on 16 May while I drove home to celebrate the national day after we finished here in Stortinget. There Heikki Holmås from SV participated. The theme was climate policy, and he said that SAS risked becoming unprofessional in climate policy, because they hesitated to publish who buys climate quotas for their travels. Yeah, I thought. He may not have thought that it can actually be transferred to SV in the field of school. It's local democracy that's school owners in Norway. In order to have an active local school ownership, the public must be concerned about the school. When the majority say that the school owner should have access to the results, we hope they mean all the school owners. Then you could say that there should be full transparency about the results at school, and not openness just to certain groups. This is important to get the necessary commitment around the school. The majority also comment that the intention of our original proposal to allow ‘business industries to run full or partial self-training courses in the professions’ is fulfilled. The Odelstinget will discuss Ot.prp later today. No 37, which puts a stop to many of these trials. It is the most important issue of non-response in the professional field. It is a paradox at a time when business and many professions are screaming for new skilled workers, that they do not rather want to welcome the initiative of industry rather than stop initiatives. The signals are many that today's offers need new ideas and new blood. The diversity that could have been achieved in this area is not covered by the actions pointed out by the majority in the range of offers we have today. It is a pity that school unification is more important than involving more people in finding good solutions to the challenges. We're probably going to discuss the non-response issue several times. We'll always be ready to meet the challenges. I would like to include the proposals 1-10 in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e159	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e162	Let me begin by thanking the case-speaker for a good job of loosening the committee through the examination of this matter, and for a very clear and fine interpretation of the setting, and also by the majority's position in the matter. I'll just associate some comments with this from the SV page. When I saw that the proposal from the Right was coming forward, and we were going to start working on it in the committee, I told myself by going back to the setting of St.meld. No 16th@item: In this setting, the non-response problem is described on 11 pages. It must be said to be full mention from Stortinget's side of a serious problem. I would like to take this opportunity today to thank the Council of State for using so much energy to focus on this problem. This was one of the first initiatives the Council of State took when he sat down in the chair, as it is called, in the autumn of 2005. He set up a group that came up with the so-called Givo report. I'm pretty sure if it wasn't because the council had such a strong personal commitment to this, it wouldn't have got so much and wide a review in St.meld. No 16, and I don't think that so many of us others were going to be infected by the commitment. This is an incredibly important thing. It is a matter of which the actors within School-Noreg are very concerned. It's a matter that we here at Stortinget will take on the utmost seriousness. For non-recurrent non-returns, you have become such a technical change. We've used it so many times that we forget that this is about individuals who are in a situation where they might make some choices that aren't for the best, cork for themselves or for society. Then it's unlikely that we're apathetic about this problem, that we see that this is a compound problem, which requires a lot of different solutions. The approach chosen by the Government in connection with St.meld. No 16, I was very good. It was a broad approximation. There were some important, major reforms that we started on, for example. compared to the fact that we are now facilitating a sharing of the advisory service. I have to say that I'm reacting a little to the tone of the opposition here today when they say that here it's just nice words, and that a person is talking about a problem in party speeches. That's not the reality. The government followed up the proposal in St.meld. No 16 on strengthening the advisory service in connection with the revised national budget, which came only one month after the Stortinget had dealt with St.meld. No 16th@item: That's what I call action. I don't just call it talking about a problem in party speeches. We know that it is professional that wears the most with regard to non-response. The committee spent quite a lot of time dealing with St.meld. No 16 to discuss that problem, and we pointed out that maybe one of the reasons for the failure could be that people who were completely out of theory, called in their daily lives, and opted for a profession, nevertheless met with a theories of continuing training. I am very pleased that the Council of State has set up a group to look at its professional status. The case spokesperson was in the context of the concrete proposals that came from the Right in this case, so I'm not going to go into any more of them in concrete terms. She's done well for how we want to relate to them. We have had an open attitude to the proposals. We have no intention of shaking the heads of ideas that get into such a serious problem just because they come from the opposition. It's not our hold. It also materializes that we actually support some of the proposals that are advanced from the Right. I thought the opposition should put off a tone that gives the impression that we're not taking the problem seriously. This isn't about the volume of words that a user uses, it's about the fact that one actually acts. I think the majority and the Council of State have shown action, and we're going to continue to take this issue seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e181	The government and the Storting have a common and great concern. It is that so many do not complete secondary education. The statistics that we have both heard here from the pulpit today, and that we also know well from before, show that one in three does not complete vocational education. To comment first on the comments made by the representative Elvik, that it was St.meld. No 16 which infected the depositors into an involvement in this matter. I believe that this is actually wrong. This is a concern that several representatives of this committee have raised many, many times in Stortinget. I think we can have mutual respect for the fact that this is something that worries any representative who works to improve school and have a good Norwegian school. I fully agree with the proposers that the issue of waste has varied for reasons, and that there is reason to try different instruments to meet the challenges. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will support most of the proposals in the document. Many of the proposals we have also commented on in the setting of St.meld. No 16, and I will therefore concentrate on two of the proposals, namely No. 1 and No 3 in the setting. In the motion for a resolution, no. The government is asked to provide a concrete package of measures to help provide parental support for children’s schooling. This is a good proposal, and I find it sad that the majority, the government parties, are not involved in this. In the headlines on social cohesion in school, the Government stressed that the school reproduces the inequalities that exist in the home. The government concluded that action would then be taken in the education system to compensate for this. At the time, we pointed out that in order to provide pupils with a lower level of education at home with a better level of learning, we need to invest more in home-school cooperation, strengthening the understanding of the school at home and the fact that each parent, regardless of background, is one of the most important resources for learning the child. In the position we are debating today, the government parties say that home-school cooperation is important, but they will not participate in a package of measures that systematises and strengthens such cooperation. I think it should have been possible to commit in this area with concrete measures. Our joint project should be to initiate measures that allow us to get there that all parents see that they are resources for their children. These are the teachers, these are the parents' committees, and research shows that this is important. In the motion for a resolution, no. 1 request the Government to provide a concrete escalation plan so that all students who want to do so will receive free lessons. I have registered that the Government of the Revised National Budget is proposing funds for testing, among other things. homework, and that's good. Unfortunately, too much of the money goes to test out the government party's dream of a whole day school, but we're going to leave it in this round. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to stress that for many children it may be important to get support and help for homework, when the home cannot provide it. What is important to point out is that there are many good offers in the volunteer. Voluntary organisations, such as: Red Cross, with homework in many district and local associations. A plan to offer a more systematic teaching aid to children who wish to do so, as proposed in proposal No. 1, therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, must also take care of and provide opportunities for organisations with a high level of competence in this area to offer similar offers. The Christian People's Party is in on the proposals made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e209	Sometimes it's important to listen to wise people. We're going to do that in general. One of them was in Oslo the other day. He was an American president. After having that power, he said – after my newspaper readings – that what he had discovered afterwards, and who had said about him, was how important it was as a politician to find the people who each made a practical difference in their everyday lives, and that taking care of them was what made things work. So he also thoughtfully said that we politicians with a lot of power – and I want to say that he has had a lot of power – sit often and decide things, but we don't understand this dynamics, and we don't work enough with it. I think the representatives of the government parties are going to experience the opposition parties' commitment here in that many of us – I'm going to speak for myself – are going through the world and life, and that we see people like that making a difference. We see the measures that make a difference, and then we see the sum of the measures that make a difference. Most of the education committee shared an experience in India, where we heard a school administrator in a state with between 80 and 90 million. residents, in a city of 8 million. citizens, tell about how to systematically, almost on an individual level, you should think, go in to figure out why someone falls off. Then you're very practical. It's this practical approach of the good peoples, whether the good people are good teachers, good advisers, engaged parents or responsible students, we're trying to find out with all the suggestions that are here. Let me take an example from some of Eriksen's representatives, how to do something with parents. After all, on some of my visits to Oslo schools, I see how to systematically take the parents, not to plague them, but to find out how they can be involved in their children's efforts at school with some different starting point in life. The system itself is based on ensuring that children are seen and are included. If we take it a step further, for example. to schools where there are large linguistic minorities, and see the job being put in connection with the practical contacts that are inclusive, it is in pursuit of it. When the opposition at this point is critical, and I'm among them, it's because we're being treated by St.meld. No 16 missing a broad review e.g. the relationship with linguistic minorities. If we look at all those who, for different reasons, need some form of adapted training, in the sense of special training, it's a strong impression when you walk around schools and learn that pedagogical research has found out that what teachers at long speed tell you is working, it really shouldn't happen. And when you've personally talked to both teachers and students who tell the story of how they've been turned from being depreciated as nothing to say that they're standing there with shiny eyes and looking and doing something, we all understand – in each case I do – that then it's very important to get hold of all these suggestions. Politically, this is an impatient, silent rebellion in the sense that we bit by bit want to have some practical actions on the table. A government council can be criticized for not always getting enough money. That debate will take place when we have it. But the power that lies in a departmental leadership in implementing 'politics by walking around', putting one example together with another, infecting, inspiring, ensuring that things are connected, that's the essence of that opposition that has promoted here today. We believe in these specificities. No one's going to give us anything else. And I think that all of us who work here, regardless of the political background, are busy getting to these measures. We're concerned with each of our ways of doing what Clinton essentially formulated on behalf of all of us. A good part of us got it -- we didn't realize that it was like Clinton said it, before he said it. That's basically how we've been doing all along, for example. Here. When you talk concretely about how advice should be done, and you talk concretely about how someone who might not get it done in one way can do it in another way – for example. in business – then we are practical and know that we need to be fully targeted to prevent non-response, and that we need to mobilise all good forces. The left, together with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, stands on many points, and with the Right and Advance Party on two points – we do not follow them on two. The sum of the opposition's proposals is a contribution to a checklist to prevent school failure, to see people and to make sure they can master life, to see that they have this flash in the eye that says I've got this done. I don't think anyone should read it in any other way. I'd like to warn you that we're being able to unload the staging messages in the staging room. I think we should show each other mutual respect for the fact that we want policies to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e228	Non-implementation of secondary education is serious both for individual students and for society as a whole. This is a problem The government with the greatest seriousness has taken hold. One of the first things I did when I came to my Council chair was to set up a working group to advise me on how to limit and prevent apostasy. One such group had never been compounded before, and it was composed by the foremost experts in this field. Many of the proposals made by the working group have been followed up by St.meld. No 16, and I'm also happy to be able to say: with the broad connection of the Storting. There are many reasons why students and apprentices discontinue secondary education. This means that a variety of measures are needed to reduce non-response and that efforts need to be made early. Let me therefore also say that I am pleased with the broad consensus between the parties here on the Stortinget about addressing this, and that one is also committed to using many different instruments to meet each youth. Let me briefly mention some of the measures that the Government has taken and which show the power we are using in this regard, and let me also point out that on a number of occasions, the Storting has discussed and dealt with these issues – at the latest in Document No. 8:55, which has been treated here recently. The first point is the advisory service. Very many underline the importance of advisers in high school and high school. In the revised national budget, we have proposed a strengthening of 15 million. kr, and we also propose a division of counselling services into a social educational service and a professional and professional guidance service. I am satisfied that we have received some money for this now in the first round, and it seems that the Stortinget is pleased and agreed to it. This means that the advisory service will be given priority in the future. The reason for this is that a lot of people suggest that wrong choices are the cause of falling down, starting an education that you didn't really know what was, and discovering that it's really not something you like. Therefore, advice is important. In the context of the promise of knowledge, there are two important subjects which are now being changed. One is the programme subject of choice at the youth level, and the other is the project of immersion in higher education. Both of these will be introduced as mandatory from the next harvest, and it will give students taste buds of what they can later choose. I believe, like the bulk of the population, that these taste buds will help more people make the right choices. Another measure proposed in the GIVO report, which we are now dealing with in three different disciplines, is that of a practical letter. So it's a formalized two-year run. You go straight from high school at a time based on practical education, but where you may later be able to take theory. We are interested to see if there is a working life out there that wants candidates who have implemented this. This means that we cannot start this on a full scale until, in cooperation with the social partners, we have ensured that this has a quality that makes it good. Let me stress that we want most people to be phased into an apprenticeship, i.e. a four-year run of two years at school and two years of learning, because we believe that theory is also important. But for someone such a practice-based two-year run can be the answer, and three counties will be running from the harvest of some subjects. Then we'll see if it's a success. In that case, we will expand this and come back with a more extended arrangement. But let me stress: we have to make sure that we don't lead our young people into blind streets. There must be a working life that requires those who have gone on a practical letter, so that they get a full job afterwards, and so that this does not just become a dead end. There are many who warn against it. Therefore, it is necessary to proceed with caution, to gain experience and to know that what we are doing is right to help our young people. We have approved more than 10 million from words to action through a comprehensive programme called the 'Knowledge Promise'. kr i support for eight new projects to strengthen the implementation of higher education. Projects involve 12 school owners and 22 schools and facilitate good cooperation between youth and secondary education. So there's a more comprehensive commitment to different trials – again, to gain experience and to make sure that what we're doing is right. Let me underline the following: we don't have enough knowledge about this, but what we know is that the problem is significant. When I talk to my European colleagues, this is not a strange phenomenon. Unfortunately, many European countries, not all of them, are struggling with these non-response challenges. The reasons are complex, but it is interesting to see that when I present St.meld. No 16 – which we have translated into French and English just to allow my colleagues abroad to reap from the experience we have – they think it is a very good piece of work that has been done in Norway, and it creates inspiration in other countries that are struggling with the same problems. The exchange of experience between countries is important simply because the whole continent is struggling with the same non-response problem, with the marginalisation of large youth groups that do not fit into the school system we have created. I'm pleased with the Storting's strong commitment to this, and the setting we're dealing with today is an expression of an impatience in the Storting that I appreciate. The biggest thing to know, as underlined by representatives of the government parties, is that the government council is personally committed to this, and that the government will do what it needs to do to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e255	Now the Council of State referred to that we had dealt with Document No. 8:55 for a while back, but that's what we're dealing with now! There's a special group we haven't mentioned, but that everyone knows is particularly affected by this. They're the boys. It's very often the boys who fall out of high school. I think that proposal No. 6 in the setting actually affects this. Getting a place to learn when you're practical, getting companies to offer different offers to this group is important. That is why I am a little surprised that the Council of State cannot be on proposal No. 6, which affect this in the setting. We know, as I said, that boys – and especially boys with an immigration background – will benefit from being able to get an apprenticeship with the educational training package contained in this proposal. Why does the Council of State not share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e262	Let me first correct the document I referred to. That was draft document No. 8:44, which was dealt with in the Stortinge for a short time, on the counselling service. As for the attempt we are making, with practical letters – and now I take this into account – I think it is Telemark, Vestfold and possibly Akershus that are in progress within some disciplines, nature use, the timber trade and another subject. It is a cooperation project between the county and employers and employees, as part of this. There we will gain experience. Then we're a little back to the old business theory, which was found when I was young. And then you went straight from school to school. And then you went to study for a few years, and then you took the theory gradually. This is not the way our more schematic school system has been. There is currently a possibility for the county to have that type of company teaching, but we see that few people use it. So we have faith that this newsletter might be an answer for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e271	It really needs a pretty good eye to see a very big difference in many of the analyses in St.meld. No 16 and in St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004 by the Bondevik II Government. As long as we continue with this debate, we will remember that there were some analyses here before today's government time. But in one area, you're a little bit different, and it's about transparency. It has always been a prerequisite in St.meld. No 30 that it should be full transparency. I also note that the Council of State and the current government have come a long way in terms of transparency. Talks include: that the school owner should have full access to information, and the Council of State has previously confirmed to me that local school ownership is important in order to get through national school policy. As I know our system, it is important to have an offensive debate around schools locally in order to achieve the national objectives. How does the Council of States think it's done when you're not going to have full transparency about the results? How does he feel that the public will be involved in school policy locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e280	The results of national tests shall be published for those concerned. It'll be for the student, for the teacher, of course, for the parents and for the school. The reason why we don't want a ranking is that a ranking will contribute to the wrong focus. National tests are a tool to improve student performance, to measure whether you have acquired the basic skills you need. I am pleased that representatives from the bourgeois parties have afterwards seen that what they did in government at that time was not good enough. It was evaluated apart and together, to be completely honest, by the ILS. This means that we have now returned to a completely different device. Let me also underline the last point, with publication. I record that the Right thinks this is very positive. But they don't have much professional support for it. The last to comment on this is the OECD in the comprehensive report presented in Trondheim just days ago. Let me just quote in English, and we'll try to translate afterwards: « publication can damage equity if the media transforms even a sophisticated range of data about schools into crude league tables of so-called «good schools» and «bad schools».» [[...]] They therefore warn against this, because it will lead to the segregation and stamping of schools, and in that way the OECD is now also a new player behind the government's education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e292	I allow myself to ask the Council of State a question on the basis of proposal No. 3, about how parents can get involved – but I want to give it a special content. I think this is very important in all contexts where you're dealing with linguistic minorities. This applies, for example: The city we're in now, it's Drammen, Kristiansand, etc. I would like to ask the Council of State what concrete package of measures he has to ensure that parents can be mobilised in such contexts. We have many good experiences in School-Norway. I must admit that I know them more places, but best in Oslo. I think that these experiences really need to be taken care of. I can measure them myself from the time when you decided at a school in Oslo that everyone had a ketish relationship with outdoor life, so you said it was the same. Then it ended up with saris women, who thought that children should not be together in camp school, being involved – that is, systematic and good cooperation between teachers and parents. I would like to ask the Council of State what practical escalation plans he has in this area, because I think that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e299	I'm familiar with Dørum's strong commitment to this. I think it's very positive that central government politicians are involved in these demanding issues. It's obviously very positive. Our government has presented a very comprehensive plan called ‘Equal Education in Practice’, which builds on the very good work of former governments, namely that we need dialogue and special measures to meet these challenges. We see that for first-generation immigrants there are significant challenges. They're a little bit smaller for second-generation immigrants, but once again, it's just like the representative of Dørum pulls out: the parents, the adults, are in many ways the crumb of this. Having a dialogue with them is absolutely crucial. That means, of course, that every school has to deal with this. The school owner has to take care of this. In many schools here in Oslo, to which reference is made, but also in Drammen and other cities, there is exemplary work done. Let me say that in some schools that have a significant migration rate, we now see that Norwegian performance is very high. We see that integration is going very well. Let me underline: that commitment over the years has been very important, and our government continues it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e304	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e309	I actually took the floor to ask that proposal No. 5 is converted into a transmission proposal, which I was made aware that I should have done. So it's done. I would like to comment a little bit on what the Council said in its reply to the OECD report. I haven't studied it that thoroughly yet, but I think you compare some apples and bananas when you compare the former law of free school in Norway with much of what you find abroad. In the case of students attending that type of school outside, there are quite different percentage points than in Norway. What's typical is that the Council of State gets into rankings. No one has ever wanted the results to be used for ranking. What I was asking was how to create the local commitment around the school without knowing what the situation is at school. We should remember that much of what drew attention to the Norwegian school was actually international surveys that compared the Norwegian school with other schools — internationally. Of course, this has to be done in a proper way without being populistic. No one wants that. But that there's very good information there, also for local democracy, I'm pretty sure. I really did not get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e316	I guess I see this as a question that I have to rewrite. If you go back a little bit, you'll see that the process around national tests was an extremely demanding process in Norwegian school, that they got on very quickly, and they also had some diffuse targets. This meant that when they came, parents, teachers and students saw this as a conflict, and not an operational tool. Then you've analysed this afterwards, and the ILS has gone through it very carefully. Something positive was found in it, but in particular the written tests were evaluated as very poor. The reason for this was that there was not enough work being done in the preparation of these at school. In particular, high school examinations became a highly conflicting topic. What we've done is we've started a process. We've spent almost two years working on it. We started it right away when we got into the government quarter. We took a break in the national tests that did not achieve professional goals, and we gave the leading professional communities in Norway the opportunity to develop new national tests in Norwegian oral, English oral and mathematics. They've spent one year on this. In the fall it was piloted in school, and the experience of it makes some adjustments. The idea is to introduce this on a full scale within these three disciplines in the school from the fall of the year. Then we'll gain experience of it and move on. But the whole process of thinking is that this publication, which can easily be the result, takes the focus away from learning. I have to say that I very much agree that it is important to focus on knowledge about school, so the national tests are an important tool, and it is also underlined by the OECD in the report to which I referred. But the point of publication is that it takes the focus away from the process that's in the classroom and in the school. That means we don't want to facilitate ranking, and we also see that it takes focus away. Many countries have been through it, and according to the OECD, publishing results at national level, as Right-wing wants, can mean labeling schools as good or bad and thus becoming demanding. Our starting point is that national tests should be a natural part of the Norwegian school that does not experience conflict. So we've also moved them to the autumn and not the spring, because then it's not a new exam, it's just a regular test in school. We have also provided a comprehensive guidance for teachers in advance. All students will receive information at the beginning of the school year until the autumn about the national tests, so that parents too are up-to-date and know what to do. But let me finish with the commitment around the school. Yes, fortunately it is that the commitment around the school is strong. In all schools in Norway, there is a high level of involvement in public primary schools, completely independent of national tests. It's because parents and community are concerned that the kids are going to have a good school. It is not related to the publication of results at school — on the contrary, publication of results would be a barrier to good learning processes at school. For those schools that then fail to get out of these evaluations, they will be marked as poor schools and thus have a disability in the learning process. So our approach to this now has OECD support as well, and I'm glad, but not least, it has broad support in School-Norway, and that's perhaps the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e329	I can't wait to say that it's interesting to notice that the Minister of Knowledge before he became Minister of Knowledge was very busy removing the national tests. Now the same national samples are introduced with a few modifications, plus that they are not to be published. The latter is really the most serious thing that the Government does not implement what it has said it should implement. But when the council here says there's going to be transparency for the students, for the parents and the schools, it's all right. But what are the schools, students and parents going to use these studies for if they can't raise their eyes, look around and say, "What's this school like about the other schools?" What do we have to do to improve in these special areas? You could imagine this model being transferred to Sport-Norway and imagine an alternative silent world championship, where there is no competition between the participants, but where the goal of the participant is to jump beyond what he did in the last jump! It would be a rather slow competition. In addition, transparency about these results is important for decision-makers. When I was a local politician myself, and we had the school gate.no with relevant information about schools in my own municipality, I used this portal a lot to see what the other schools could learn from the schools that were good. It turned out that there were no schools that were bad in everything, there were a lot of schools that were good at something. And it turned out that most schools had something to learn from others. It's a knowledge that local politicians couldn't get if I couldn't sit down and compare the results at the different schools. Therefore, this is a slightly more serious problem than just the publication or not publication of national samples. And the most important thing then was to find a tool that would make this really useful in the decisions made by the school owners. In addition, the Council of State did not respond to the 2010 Progress Party challenge of non-response targets. Is it the case that the Council of State might think of setting a target, as they have done in Denmark, to get something to go after? Or is it that we just have to lean back and see how the measures taken end up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e336	Where it is possible in an Indian state — Andra Pradesh — to set a target for combating non-response, it must be possible to do so in Norway, in a country that is much more transparent. We're in a situation where we can socially view individuals, and we can sum it up. We are, of course, setting goals in a number of societal areas, rightly – we are setting gender equality goals, quite correctly. And setting goals means nothing but deciding, in good Norwegian, to mobilize to achieve it with a set of different instruments. I think the representative of Anundsen's question is very justified. I basically also took the floor to say that there has been a rather important development of cultural policy over the last four to five–six years. We have come into the situation per year. Today, the Council of State recently — in a newspaper — has taken a self-critical approach to how SV has not previously valued knowledge in school well enough, and has been commendable for its importance. It's fine. The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has also done the same on behalf of the Norwegian Labour Party. Fine. Then you should not be surprised that when someone in a government suddenly discovers that you have a large percentage of functional illiterates – people who cannot read and write – they have to do something. The promise of knowledge, created under Bondevik II – and carried on by this government – is indeed a Norwegian virtue, a shipper’s roof to correct something that is wrong. It is recognised that the first generation tests are not ideal if you read the treatment of the CDC in the case of the national tests. You start with something, and then you have to get on the road. Let's just give it to each other, then, that shippertop got started. And then I'm going to be real enough to say that when everyone agrees that we're going to take that shipper, because there's been a common tradition – at least for the socialist parties and the Left – that knowledge gives power. And knowledge has always been defined as both practical and theoretical knowledge. In this context, we want the tests to be an instrument, because students need to be able to master their situation. But even more important – which I believe unites at least the opposition in this debate: we want there to be an honest debate about the content of school locally – not to take someone, but to ask questions about how students, teachers and parents can talk about things that are essential, such as:: How do teachers get enough skills through further training and training? How can parents be involved? How can the pupil councils be mobilised? For approx. Twenty years ago, there were such debates because we had school boards. Approximately all this has been delegated away — it has disappeared in administrative structures. Returning to this local debate, with the school structure we have in Norway, is essential, precisely to ensure that we create what we perceive as the intention of the Council of State in St.meld. No 16, namely:... and no one was left. Government councils and government parties shall perceive that the opposition wishes to contribute to the vigorous re-establishment of a wise local debate on the content of the school. Then you have to tell the truth about what's hard and enjoy what's good. That's the dosage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e356	Nowhere in the OECD reports — to which the Council of State refers — is there any warning against the use of national samples, rather on the contrary. It is the OECD which has been calling for a national quality assessment system for which national samples are part since 1985. We knew before very little about school. Many ‘sight’, and many thought they knew, but few had knowledge of what happened at school, and of why what happened happened. Then, during the previous government period, we got a national quality assessment system in place, where national samples are one of several indicators. There are actually a lot of indicators, which are all about everything from well-being to the number of PCs per. students for bullying, etc. It would be quite strange if the learning outcomes, which is the most important thing in a school, were not to be part of the national quality assessment system and the indicators we have in a good or a bad school. This is also the case – and I think I am very happy – that many local politicians now have something to discuss at the local government meetings that deal with the content of the school. In the past, they were referred to almost just discussing circuit boundaries and school buildings, because that's all you really knew about and had a relationship to. Now there's a discussion of quality in school and content in school, and that's good. So I also think it's important that we have transparency about the results. When it turned out that students in Oslo School read very poorly, and that many were under critical reading, there was just a lot of the public debate about what contributed to the fact that the rivers that today go on the second stage read much better than the students who went on the second stage when the studies were completed. The Municipality of Oslo has taken important steps to improve the literacy of all students, and it deserves great praise from the Municipality of Oslo. But it also says something about the importance of openness. Knowledge of the school depends on knowledge of the school. And if we're not willing to see the results of the school we run, in our eyes, we'll never be able to improve it either -- or get the results and the learning outcomes for the students that I think we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e371	Let me answer the challenges that came from the representatives of Storting. That's right, as the representative of Søreide says. The OECD is involved in national tests. That's what I said in my article. It was the publication of results at school level that was a problematisation around, not least the very demanding by publishing that kind of result and what it could result from learning processes in each school. Of course, when we talk about publicising the level of those involved, it will help to ensure that the school itself has learning processes – along with the school owners – that improve the results if it turns out that they were not good enough. But that doesn't mean we're facilitating this to be ranked and published. Let me stress that my colleague Bertel Haarder, who comes from a completely different party than ours and from a completely different government – on the contrary from a bourgeois government in Denmark supported by the Danish People's Party – has now been passed in Folketinget a law against the publication of results of national tests. So they go so far that they legislate that this can't be published. The reason for this is, of course, that it will basically destroy the learning process in Danish school. However, this does not mean that the national tests are taken away, on the contrary – Denmark has far more national tests than we have. But they have passed a law. It doesn't have our government. We have not come to Stortinget and said that this cannot be published. Obviously, if you systematically collect samples from schools, it is probably possible to find results. But we have to do everything we can to prevent this ranking, because it will be harmful to the learning process in the individual school. The representative Anundsen challenged me on the number of non-responses. Let me just say what I think almost everyone will be able to say: one that falls out of school is too much – because unfortunately we have a very big connection with the fact that those who fall out quickly end up outside the school system and outside the workplace, with all the social consequences that it has for society and for the individual. We now have a broad set of measures that we are putting in, hoping to capture more. We're trying to acquire knowledge about the cause of non-response. And I also think – I just have to say – that there is no disagreement between us and the opposition that we should do everything in our power to prevent apostasy. And that's what we're doing -- on a broad basis. Let me also highlight the following: the trials we now have with all day school are an important part of the whole of this. We have second-class tests, reading and math screening tests, to see if there is a need for special measures. We want to provide on the directorate's websites a whole set of screening tests that the schools can download for free and take out, and guidance material for the individual pedagogue, in many subjects, at many class steps. The point is that it can be used when the school or the pedagogue feels it is necessary to see whether the teaching is in line with the plans laid down in the Science Plan. This can happen at different times, at different class stages, in different subjects, precisely because the survey is to show how the learning work goes at school, not for anything else. This is a tool for each individual teacher to the students, so that the students will succeed and master better. Here we are at the school's basic idea: the school should be an arena for learning and mastering. These two things – learning and mastering – are the most central concepts in the school. We're going to make sure that our children succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e392	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3375]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e408	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e417	The staff situation at school is central to meeting the school objectives. As the rapporteur, I can state that there is full agreement in the Committee that recruitment to school is a very central challenge. It is complex, and its development is influenced by many factors. For all, the teacher is considered to be the principal resource of the school and the students, which must have a status and focus, which means that the status of the teacher is in line with the central role he has. The document proposes this meeting with its own obligatory recruitment plans to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers, first in secondary education and then in primary school. Reference is made to the Educational Association's age statistics for teachers, which are a key indicator that this is a serious challenge. The Ministry relies on the projections of the teacher situation undertaken by the SSB, last made in 2005. An overall committee asks the Ministry to speed up a new SSB projection and to request that it be seen in the light of the increased number of hours notified in primary school. A joint committee also focuses on the fact that the youth at school has had ‘a lack of focus on their peculiarity’, and that it needs to be worked to provide the pupils who come to brief theoretically, a more practical school day. It can help solve the issue of non-response in higher education, as we just discussed. The right supports the wish of the proposers for mandatory recruitment plans. The age distribution in the document and the signals from different organisations show that the challenge is great and the lack of money. It ranges from developing a senior policy in school, which is going to invite the three out of four who can imagine working longer in school than today, to do so, to professional challenges within, among other things. real science and ensuring the status of the teaching profession in which the appropriate competence is sought for this profession. We have noticed that numbers from the Coordinate Recording this year show a decline in applicant numbers of 17 pst., which we see as very worrying. Right wants to work for a full-day school by 2013. There will be many new hours to be filled with quality and good teaching. This will require many new years of teaching. A review of the whole problem, through obligatory recruitment plans, would reveal what action might have to be taken to achieve the objectives. We note that the Council of State has developed a rhetoric and has made suggestions in several hours at school. We hope he also intends to fill them with quality, and that he does not forget that we have challenges with the quality of the hours the school already has. So far, we have seen little of a willingness to follow up rhetoric and proposals with a willingness to finance. Nor has a revised budget revealed any change of pace in this area. The right will stress that a multi-hour and full-day effort must be financed by fresh means and not at the expense of strengthening teachers' skills, etc. We believe that filling new hours with quality requires more focus. We therefore support the proposal on recruitment plans. Recruitment is an employer's responsibility. It's left to others, but there are also many of the other challenges in school that we're discussing. It must not prevent a high level of activity from gaining an overview of the situation and developments at the central level. Economic developments in Norway and the rest of the world are now so strong that the problem of recruitment can be ignored if one has not thoroughly analysed the challenges. The teaching profession is too central to society that you can have a relaxed attitude to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e438	The representatives of the Left address a most relevant issue, as teachers are a very important profession in terms of school development. The next round is about how our society will develop in the future – whether we can develop the knowledge society for all, including for those who have challenges beyond the majority in school everyday life. We agree on this, but there may be different perceptions of whether we need a national recruitment plan for teachers. The Minister of Knowledge says that he is following developments closely, and that there is no cause for great concern at that time. But we know that many variables record in terms of how many people are applying for teacher training. With the tight labour market we now have, we have to make sure that being a teacher is attractive. This means that teacher training must be of high quality and that the workplace to which teachers are going is attractive in terms of both pay and working conditions. As big politicians, we should at least be very aware that when we talk about quality in school and our expectations for it, the school owners should also be able to follow up. We saw this clearly in the years of difficult local economy. There was a big difference between what was pronounced centrally, and what was possible locally. It is not seen as an increase in quality when teacher's annual work disappears and the opportunities for professional development are greatly reduced, and that was the case in Kommune-Norway over several years. Now I hope we're done with that time, and that we'll again see job growth in school. It will ease the pressure on the individual teacher, so that it is possible to meet the expectations we have at school, and thus perceive that one has a good job that one will recommend young people to apply for. Our contribution through «Competence for Development» is also an essential factor in that context. Similarly, it is important that the big headlines in the media about poor school buildings, lack of education, etc. gets away. For whom will education become a profession where there is a poor working and learning environment? Physical work environment means a great deal for everything else in the workplace to work. This is why the Government is betting on an interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings and on strengthening the general municipal economy, and I am very pleased about that. I think it's wrong to say that the physical conditions mean little to the quality, and in the recruitment context, I'm convinced that it's very important. KS, together with the trade unions at school, are important partners for us when we want to develop the school. This is true in recruitment contexts, and not least when we want to keep the teachers longer in school before they retire. We have arrangements for teachers today, with the possibility of a reduced reading obligation at the age of 55 and later at the age of 60. But we can probably make even better provision for the seniors, and then the dialogue with KS is important as the largest employer. The council also says that he has and will have dialogue with the KS in the future, and I am pleased with that. Furthermore, it is important to look at the different stages of primary school in view of where it is most challenging to work. In that context, I would like to point out the youth. An overall committee says that this step has not been sufficiently taken into account through the many reforms we have had in primary school. Neither do we have the special challenges that lie here, in focus, through the promise of knowledge. Teachers like me, who work in high school, say that they are struggling to make the education adapt to the young people who are there. I would like us to focus on the future, and it's also natural, because the drop-off problem in high school is related to a lot of these things in high school. When we talk about recruiting teachers, we don't get away from the teacher training. The NOCUT evaluation report showed that there was a lot to be done here. It also does the teacher's own training. Not least, they look at how they can get closer cooperation with the practical part, which is absolutely necessary. What students learn from educational institutions must be related to what they meet in school everyday. Many end their training after having experienced a practical situation that is unsatisfactory. It is also being worked in many other areas, including: by adapting the training courses to the requirement of immersion in the subjects in which they are to be taught and to the stages in which they are to be taught. All in all, a lot is happening in relation to the teacher training and the teaching profession that I think will contribute positively to the recruitment of teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e459	It's not always as easy to know what the future will look like. Nevertheless, at times we get some insights into some developments that create political challenges. The proposal by the Left concerns one of these. We now see that there will probably be a significant need for more qualified teachers in the years to come. While the pressure in the labour market is high and NOCUT gives general teacher training a distinctive feature, we are politically wondering how to provide our future schoolchildren with excellent training, also with a look at the international knowledge competition. The reason is that we're about to "shut up" teachers. This year we have also experienced that the search for general teacher training has fallen by a total of 17 pst. The quality of applicants is somewhat reduced and the causes are probably complex. However, it does not help to alleviate the challenges that the causes of reduced search are unclear and diverse. The Progress Party believes that the initiative of the Left on a separate recruitment plan to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers in two-stage initial training is a good initiative. One should think that even the government parties meant it, but they don't mean it. On the contrary, they show that it will not be a problem to recruit a sufficient number of qualified teachers in the coming years. This is despite the fact that the World Gang's Minister of Knowledge on 15 May shares the Education League's concern for the teaching shortage. It is a paradox that the Government, on the one hand, is concerned about the teaching shortage when it speaks to the VG, but that it shows to the Storting that there is no particular challenge. At the same time, it is underlined to Stortinget that measures have been taken as a result of the treatment of St.meld. No 16, and then you can notice that there are measures in place to remedy a situation that the Ministry of Knowledge does not think exists. It is a paradox that the government sees no need for a recruitment plan for general teachers, while at the same time in St.prp. No 67, the municipal proposal, itself proposes a separate recruitment plan for pre-school teachers. The Party agrees with the proposers that it is important and necessary to ensure that a sufficient number of competent teachers are available in the long term. If we fail this task now, we will never be able to claim in the international knowledge competition. We will remain and continue to see that international knowledge studies place Norway far below the centre. The Progress Party believes that such a recruitment plan will help to prevent a possible lack of competence in initial training, and we are very surprised that the government parties so far seem quite relaxed to the whole issue. I hope, however, that the Minister of Knowledge is serious when he has said that he wants to follow closely. It takes time to train teachers with competence. There is a day when it is too late to take sufficiently good action. The price for this kind of sommel is the students who have to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e470	The theme included in this Document No. The 8 proposal is important and relevant. In order to achieve the commitment to knowledge and quality in the school that the Government wants, we must have good and competent teachers. The teacher is the most important person in the school. It's important to have a school that puts students and students' learning potential in the center. Teachers and school leaders are therefore key personnel in the development of our entire knowledge and welfare society. SV is very happy that the government puts teachers so high and works with recruiting competent teachers to Norwegian school at all levels. In this setting, the Committee focuses on the challenges facing young people. I am also very pleased that the Government has taken action on this. It is necessary to keep up with developments in the recruitment of teachers. It is also important to focus on the responsibilities of municipalities in recruiting teachers and strengthening schools in general. This government has increased the free resources for the municipalities, and from our point of view we believe that still too little of these resources goes to school. I also think it is important to use teaching powers from the outside. I read in yesterday's newspaper that a school in Troms has just started glass blowing at the youth in the program subject for elections. I believe that strengthening this kind of competence towards other occupational groups within the school is important for the development of the school. A practical approach to learning is important. Most of us learn through practical approach. This also underlines research. I'm very pleased that the government wants to expand the number of hours at the early school stage from the first to the fourth step from 23 hours a week up to 28 hours. This will provide more space for physical activity, time for homework and nutrition. In particular, more practical training arrangements will be provided. SV is busy with math and Norwegian. We are concerned that the real subjects should be strengthened. But we all know that these types of subjects require a practical approach, and this kind of practical approach requires time. In St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007,... and no one was left. Early efforts for lifelong learning, as presented by the Government, are well justified, also in relation to Document No. The 8-proposal we discussed earlier on non-admissions in high school. We know that the dropout is shown in high school, but it starts from the beginning of school. That the students get a good start is very important. It is also essential to have good school management that focuses on learning and learning processes towards school. I am pleased that the government has also here, when it started with Øystein Djupedal as Minister of Knowledge, focused on this and allocated more money for post-school education. I want to challenge State Council Djupedal to come back to Stortinget with a statement of the work the Council of State is doing in terms of teacher training, so that we get a discussion in Stortinget about this. It is important to get started, and I am very pleased that the government has taken action after the evaluation report we received, which was mildly said not just a pleasant reading. But we need to have a wide-ranging debate on this in Stortinget so that we can bring the teacher up as the most important resource in school. The setting has also focused on increasing the status of teachers. Through a presentation in Stortinget, I think we can help raise the teacher's position and position and get a much better teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e489	I would first like to take the opportunity to commend the proposers for a good proposal, which we in the Christian People's Party can put ourselves fully behind. I must also say that I think it is a little strange that only the opposition is able to support this type of proposal. Here the government parties and the state council had the opportunity to get a whole bunch of drag behind them to draw up a national plan for recruiting teachers. Unfortunately, the government parties choose to waive this opportunity, and it is a little incomprehensible, with the eyes of the Christian People's Party. The lack of teachers in school will be quite precarious in a few years’ time. Already now it is noticed that it is difficult to get enough temporary workers, among other things. to be able to continue teaching when teachers participate in training activities. The Education Association is clear that action needs to be taken immediately. This is particularly true in high school. Teacher training has been highly debated the last year after NOKUT’s evaluation of teacher education. We could say that the results were an approximate slaughter of general teacher training. We politicians in big business and government did, as we often do, we pushed out with painting descriptions of how miserable the situation was, and we promised action. I think that in view of the debate at the time and in view of future evaluations of other educations, as we know, we should think a little bit about what kind of signals we're sending to the young people, who might be thinking about which education they're going to choose. We must be careful that in our treatment of the evaluations we do not weaken the status of teacher training. Teacher training must have a status that makes it attractive in order to recruit good students for the teaching profession. Therefore, it is at least as important that the actions we are now taking to correct the weaknesses are done and sought to be done, as well known as the description of the situation. Increased teacher recruitment takes place, among other things: to make the teaching profession attractive. I believe that today's teachers can be the best recruiters if they themselves thrive, have good working conditions and a salary that is proportionate to responsibilities and duties. Increased teacher recruitment is also about a good senior policy, about taking care of the good teachers we already have. The membership panel of the Federation shows that as many as three out of four teachers want to work after 60 years of age. At the same time, the numbers show that this may be slightly facilitated. I believe it is essential that we improve working conditions to a greater extent so that those who want to do so have the opportunity to work as far as possible. Youth is facing very special challenges. The review of reform 97 showed that youth was in many ways neglected by the reforms ahead of the Knowledge promise. One of the challenges is too much theoretical education. I think it's important to be able to offer students who get short on the theoretical, a more practical school day. We must have a youth step that can take care of both the theoretical strengths and the practical strengths of the rivers. This is why it is important to recruit teachers with knowledge of youth, who can meet students in the best possible way. If we succeed in that, we will also be able to do something about what we discussed in the previous case, namely to prevent the drop-out in high school. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e511	First, a little personal confession. I consider myself a product of a sparkling good seven-year-old primary school. It has been a long time since this was the case in Norway. I was exposed to sparkling good teachers, and I made a mistake – I did not thank them in time. The promotion of the proposal today, as the Left does, to ensure the recruitment of many enough and good enough teachers, both for high school and primary school, is my thanks post-festum. There's also something else. It is my strong conviction, as I and many others experienced, that students deserve good teachers, and the teachers deserve to know that society thinks they are important. I see it this way: think about it – yes, the government parties do. They want to think about getting more teachers. Would it – yes, they would. But do it – no, they can't. On the other hand, the Council of State would like to meet with the media, with a deep heart attack. Then you'd like to get the teachers out. Governments have an admirable – and this is not sarcastic, it's positive – will to ensure that neither he nor his party leader is dangling because you don't get enough nursery places. He's busy recruiting pre-school teachers. After the rounds, on which only positive statements are to be made – from the Anniken Huitfeldt in the Workers' Party, from Solhjell, and at the latest from the Council of State – about having a school that is good in terms of professional and educational content, it would be to be thought that the next step would be quite immediate to take over the messages that come from the Educational Association, the Lecturer Team and Tekna, namely that it is necessary to start thinking about recruiting teachers, because we know how many people might think of going off before the age limit, during, for example, for example. 10 years. To make sure that those who are already there can think of continuing to be there, it is wise to make a senior policy that is such that people think it shines off. In order to take care of real science, it is wise to ask yourself if you can recruit engineers and others, from whom I have received e-mails, and who say that they like to do so, but then someone must at least give them a scholarship for the educational additional education they need to have in order to do so. In any case, when about everyone thinks that in order for the teachers who are there to remain in school and not go before the age limit, they must be given a year of competence — that is, systematic further education. It is a very strong cross of thought that, while the Swedish government is now launching the teaching promise – which is a systematic further training in Sweden, and which starts in 2008 and lasts for three years at first – the answer in Norway is that the Council of State is very calm. It's almost like thinking of my late party trap, Gunnar Knudsen, who just before the outbreak of World War I in 1914 thought the sun was shining in Europe, and that everything was fine. Then it narrowed. I'm sure he regretted it. The point of promoting a plan is to create a systematic approach to take care of those who are there, wise senior policy and recruitment from other professions. However, systematic further training is also needed. I wonder, on behalf of the Left, whether this does not end in anything else, namely the following: the government parties have already spent their money, they have used it for the first time to build a full-day school for the youngest. Well, if you want to spend money on it, you still have a teacher's problem. You have to have some teachers to be there. If you've spent the money on something that requires teachers, it's logical to try to get the teachers and make sure they're in place. For me, there is a contrast between the will to bet positively hard to get to kindergartens and what is systematically lacking – not words, not thoughts, but practical ability to do something about knowledge, school, higher education and research. There's a completely systematic distinction here. To me, this is by no means incomprehensible. It is very good that the Council of State and everyone else – including the Workers' Party – have a good dialogue with the Local Governments' Central Association, but we must assume that different organisations, such as the Federation of Education, the Lektor team and Tekna, have some user insight into how their members think about what is going on in order for them to run out and continue even when they have passed 50 years. They also need to think about what's going on to recruit younger people. We have to assume that they mean it. We also have to assume that they believe that all authorities are serious about investing in school and investing in upgrading school in different ways. I learned when I was a little bit into Latin, that they said, "I came, I saw, I won. The council has probably decided on the line: I came, I saw, I kept thinking. The left takes up on behalf of the opposition, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the two proposals that encourage the conversion of thought into concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e534	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e537	Recruitment of primary and secondary teachers is a very important topic. The government is very concerned about this and has done a lot that I need to come back to. The government is not in favour of developing a new recruitment plan for the profession now, because the measures we have already put in place or are in the process of implementing will be more effective than the creation of a new strategy. A good dialogue with school people, both student organisations and teachers, and not least school owners, is an important part of this. Many factors play a role in young people's choice of education and occupation. The training shall be attractive and the profession shall act as exciting and rich in content. There are several educational pathways leading to the teaching profession. In primary schools, the majority of general teachers, both with and without professional immersion, are in secondary education, while there is a wide range of professionals. The evaluation of general teacher training shows that we have some challenges. In the light of the areas identified in the evaluation, I have asked the individual institution to report on action at their level. The summary of these feedback shows that the challenges are being taken seriously and that there is a great deal of positive development at the individual teacher training institution. In order to implement relevant actions at national level, I have invited a number of individuals and organisations to contribute to improvements in teacher training. The deadline for these recordings is set for 1 October, and I look forward to an exciting process further. But I must stress that I agree with that 17 pst. the fall in the number of primary applicants for teacher training in the autumn is unfortunate. However, I expect that the further process will help to strengthen education and not least give it a better reputation and thus ensure that more people want to become teachers. Even before the fall, we are launching two projects of new education. The University of Westfold has been authorised to start a project for secondary school teacher training with 40 places, and the University of Telemark starts a practice-based general teacher training with 30 places. Both of these offers I have great faith in, and I am glad that we get an offer specifically aimed at youth and not least an offer that takes practice in education seriously. In 2006, we increased teacher training capacity by 500 new places of study. It's gone on. The dimensioning of education services must be assessed on an ongoing basis, but as we know, the number of places of study is no guarantee of either the quantity or quality of teachers starting school. School must be a place where young people want to work. The responsibility for this is shared by many, but the primary responsibility lies with the individual school owner. Nevertheless, provision should also be made for central authorities to make the teaching profession attractive and the teacher’s role has status. The size knows the great commitment to the development of skills, the guidance of newly educated teachers and, in particular, the measures contained in St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007. In other words, we do a lot of what will be covered by any recruitment plan. All measures useful to teachers in school are also important as recruitment measures, as they signal the importance of teacher training and teaching. Another signal that the teaching profession is important is the assessments we are now making of the regulation on qualifications requirements. I believe that professional competence is a central criterion for success in the learning process among the students, and therefore we have now started with the first stage of a comprehensive process, where the requirements for competence for inclusion in the school will be strengthened. Combined with the strengthening of requirements, we also need to consider how to facilitate teachers to remain in the profession. I observe that several municipalities are putting in place measures that can help teachers to assess further professional careers rather than early retirement. I am therefore in dialogue with the KS on how this can be done and what effect it can be. Let me also stress that the government in the last payroll settlement contributed with money that was earmarked for senior measures, which we hope will be effective through the wage settlement. We depend on good knowledge of the situation in school, so we've asked the SSB to upgrade the basis for teaching. When I say that I want to follow developments closely, it's considering what knowledge we have about the field at all times, combined with the effect of the measures we're taking. The field is complex and complex, and good development depends on the sum of measures. So let me end by stressing what Mr. Dagrön Eriksen said in his speech, and point out how important it is that we all give our share to strengthen the status of the teaching and teaching profession: we need to talk about the school and the teaching profession with respect and recognition. We have a lot to be proud of in Norwegian basic education, and it's important that as politicians, we don't forget to give honor to the teachers for the job they do. Although we have challenges both in teaching and teaching, we have to put them into a positive whole that helps recruit, develop and maintain the best teachers, and not portray the school as anything other than what it actually is, an arena for very capable people who teach our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e564	It's something that concerns me, and it's that you have easy to just use words. It is also mentioned by several representatives here today. But being concrete and being clear about what you want to do is really the most important thing. And as I said, there's a lot of concern when the applicant percentage of general teacher education shows so much decline from last year to this year. Then it is not enough just to keep up with the situation, then the measures must be taken – now! There must be a recruitment plan for primary school in place. Then I wonder when I hear that the Council of State wants such a plan for the kindergarten sector, but not for primary and secondary schools. Is it so that all the children who are now in a day-to-day school, in a way, are to be sacrificed because the Council of State really wants to start at scratch? We don't have time to wait. Does that not confirm our perception that there has been little achievement in the kindergarten business, and that the ordinary school has become the loser?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e574	You have to be a little careful with how to make these numbers. 17 pst down. is not desirable, of course. But let me stress that we have a record search for pre-school education. What we also know is that there is still a significant review of teacher training, which means that there are still several qualified candidates to choose from. We take this challenge seriously, and therefore, as I said in my post, we are now taking a number of measures to strengthen the status of the teaching profession and to strengthen teacher training as such. We are in dialogue with each institution. We see that in some of our institutions there is a third that falls from the first year of teacher training. This means that many young people get into teacher training and do not get the support and guidance they need to unload to become good teachers. It's an institutional responsibility. When a third falls from some institutions, it's clear that we can't live with that. But this cannot be done directly by the Council of State, if I do not engage in dialogue with the individual dean, with the individual institution. That's the process we're now in. You might like it or dislike it, but politics and processes often take a little bit of time. This means that the dialogue with the institutions, with the organisations, is processes that need to take some time. There's no quick fix on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e583	I noticed that the Council of State believes that everyone should mention the school in positive terms, and I think so. I guess no one cares about where the central teachers are. Still, we see that it's 17 pst. The number of applications for teacher training declines, and we know, from both the signals here in the hall and elsewhere, that there will be major new challenges to recruiting teachers. I'm just recording that there's a significant difference between how the opposition looks at the challenge and how the government looks at it. We know that we are facing an extended school day, and we know that this is going to lead to demands in terms of recruiting teachers. In such a light, I would think it would have been valuable to work out a recruitment plan just to get the problem over and over again – the Council of State was in and out of a series of such separate actions. It still surprises me – as Dagrun Eriksen had in mind – that it is not possible to get a solid majority to develop that kind of plan here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e590	In my article I drew up a number of the measures we are taking. We've set up 500 new teaching places, and we'll set up more if necessary. However, it is clear that setting up new places of study will not have any effect if a third falls from before they start the study. Taking hold of the individual institution and ensuring that several of these young people who have actually entered teacher training continue in the teaching profession and teacher training, and provide them with support and guidance during the study, is a very important piece. Many young people are probably looking for more education and may end up in an education they initially did not want. However, it should not be underestimated that this contact at each institution is perhaps perhaps one of the most important things. The many measures we take to increase the status and quality of teacher training are also an important part. Many of the things we're doing don't require our own recruitment plan, because we're already running, and we're in dialogue. And we have good faith that this will have an effect. If a person takes the initiative in real science – as the previous government has begun with praise, and as we continue with renewed force – we see that it takes many years for a downward trend to turn around. This means that we are turning a downward trend, in cooperation with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e599	The dream of the full-day school has resulted in the very least of them now getting another seven hours a week at school. For the treatment of St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 and other issues, we have talked about the dropout in high school and in school in general, and it shows that we have a challenge in creating masters through school. The Christian People's Party supports the idea of both more physical activity and more practical theory, but we should probably first of all make sure that we had enough and good enough personnel. Does the Council of State think it is now an important priority to have more hours, rather than bet on getting the hours we already have in school, to be good, and with plenty of teachers present?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e606	The answer will be both. We're now starting an extensive trial with all day school. It will require more educators, and that means we have to recruit more teachers. As I have said repeatedly: to get more people to choose the teaching profession, to remain in the teaching profession through education, and not least to provide senior measures so that adult teachers choose to remain teachers, involves a set of measures. Here we are engaged in a dialogue with school owners and with the institutions, and not least with the Stortinget, which has a strong commitment. Let me say I appreciate that. This with teacher training is a crucial factor, which I record that many have been involved in their posts. Let me repeat to the representative Jensen, who asked if I would come to the Stortinget with a statement of action on teacher training, that of course I will do so if that is the Stortinget's wish. Teacher training is one of our most important education — if not the most important one. With the broad commitment I record in Stortinget, I would like to be able to come here and explain what the Government is doing, and reinforce the dialogue to underline the importance of the teaching profession. But to the specific question: I don't believe there's any contradiction between the two things – we need both.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e619	This has rightly been a good discussion with attention to primary school, but it is in high school that we know we can lose up to 50 pst. by the teachers. They go off at the age limit in the next ten years. I have to ask the Council of State when, for example, The Education Association ‘considers that proposers point to key challenges. Teachers and school leaders are key personnel in the development of the knowledge and well-being society’, and when the Lektor team says that ‘action should be taken to raise the status of the teaching profession, to recruit teachers from other professional groups, to systematically and obliging teachers’ empowerment’, and when the Swedish government has at present launched a teaching gap to introduce a year of competence to ensure teachers, is it so that all of these do not really see what they see? I have to ask the Council of State about that. All these messages are strong signs that small and large initiatives must be taken to recruit teachers. What will the Council of State do to ensure that we have sufficient recruitment, initially in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e626	I do not understand that there is any major disagreement between the opposition and the position on this issue. The question of whether to have a plan or to have many different measures that together lead in the same direction is a large part of the same. I fully agree that we need more teachers and skilled teachers who remain in school. That exposure has been shown by the government parties through practical action for two years, and we will continue to do that. When it comes to recruitment to higher education, it is true that they face a major challenge, especially in the field of real science and language. There I have good faith that the five-year master's degree that is now at NTNU and the University of Oslo, where the first candidates will be graduated in a short time, will be a good response to the old teacher we had at school in Dørum and Djupedal's time – the time we had lecturers with dustcoats. It is possible that we now get them back, without a dust coat. The five-year master's education that is now at our two major universities, I have great faith in will be one measure. At the same time, the dialogue with school owners and the senior measures we put in place in the context of the State budget, where we contributed 90 million. NOK in a agreed solution between the KS and the Education Association, which I hope will also help many people choose to stay in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e635	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e640	It's a very important thing we're focusing on today, the recruitment of qualified teachers in school. In Finland, in December 2006, there were 724 teachers in primary and secondary schools who were 50 years of age or older, showing figures from the Education Association. More than half of high school teachers are over 50 years old. The University of Finland estimates that 600 new teachers will be needed in the next 10 years, and it is highly uncertain whether the number of newly educated teachers will compensate for these developments. The concern is also great for recruitment to primary school. Last year there were only 12 applicants for teacher training at the Finnish University of Finland. At the Sámi College in Kautokeino, the admission of teachers students was introduced in 2003 only every two years due to low applicants. In other words, there is a clear need for both a national and a county plan to recruit new teachers and to retain older teachers. The instrument scheme for teachers in North Norway ceased in 2003 and a clear trend is seen to be the increase in the proportion of unskilled students in schools in the county. The active substance scheme had a positive impact on the applicant number. Several wanted to become teachers on the basis of tools that were beneficial in terms of living and working in the county. From the fall you try to walk new paths at the Finnish Higher Education School, which is very good. The Utinor project is being launched, where more attention will be paid to nature and outdoor areas in education than in the past. This seems to arouse great interest among the applicants. Nearly 100 applications have been received for the next school year, but one does not yet know how many of these are included in the study. Appropriate localised teacher studies such as this can be a good way to facilitate learning opportunities. In addition, the profession of teacher must be made more attractive and the status of the profession must be increased. A change and extension of general teacher training will include: could contribute to this, in addition to the need to focus more on the working environment and the conditions in which teachers work in both Norwegian and Sami schools. The school in the Sami areas of the country has a particular need for the development of new teaching materials and textbooks. Another important suggestion is that we have to look at how we can draw more exchangers on the skills available outside the school. There is a great need for real science skills, and therefore engineers as well as economists have important competences that the school needs. We therefore want to have a scholarship scheme for those who want to take an additional pedagogical course. And last, but not least, we want senior measures in order to retain valuable competences. So many as three out of four teachers want to work after age 60. Unfortunately, it is not well enough to facilitate it today. Reduced working time and workload may be the way to go, so that those who want to do so can work longer in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e658	In Norway, the issue of teacher recruitment is very complex. One thing is the question of how many people apply for teacher training every year. So, as we've heard several times here today, the search for general teacher education has gone down by 17 pst. from last year to this year. That means it's approx. 3 100 students who will start in general teacher training now in the autumn. But the problem goes on. NIFU STEP has calculated that the general teacher training is the training with the highest degree of absence from all courses. 27 pst. of the students are absent during the study. One-fifth of them falls from the first year already. We have to combine that with the fact that very many of those who are teachers today are about to leave at the age limit, and many of them want to leave earlier than normal retirement. So we have a combination of the warped age composition of those who are teachers, the poor recruitment of general teachers, many teachers who are doing things other than working in school today and being teachers, and at the top of it all, we have a huge disqualification when those who have chosen teacher training start studying. KS has made estimates that an extension of the school day to 28 hours a week will require 4,000–5000 new years of teaching. As of today, it does not seem that the Government or the Council of State are able to give an answer as to where to retrieve the teachers from. We also know that we have great challenges in keeping teachers in the profession for a long time. The letter of reply dated 2 May 2007 given to the Committee by the Council of State does not, in my opinion, give much reason for complacency. Although the Council of State in the letter states that there is no cause for concern, I think there is a great cause for concern precisely because the situation today is actually even more dramatic than when the SSB made its last projections in 2005. We also know that we need to act actively today if we're to have well-trained teachers and many enough teachers in the future. Governments are quite right that nothing happens overnight here, it takes a long time. This is why, of course, it is very unfortunate that teachers’ training institutions are now also experiencing the cutbacks made in the basic appropriations for higher education in the 2007 budget. I would like to urge the Council of States once again to see whether it is not possible to take a somewhat more offensive view of the proposal on which the opposition parties now stand together, and whether it is not possible to be more responsive to the problems we are seeing, seriously, and not least the complexity of the problems. There's not one factor here that's crucial, there's a lot of them. That is also a matter for the Council of State to take on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e675	Let me use some common cultural goods – at least it's become this way gradually – namely Vømmöl Spellmannslag. It wasn't quite common at the time they showed up, but it's become it now. They have said the following wise words: 'It is now time for seafaring'. It's still equally valid. The councils are able to sit down systematically to get preschool teachers, he has an impressive ability to make sure that there are kindergartens both here and there, so I don't understand why you can't see the same energy when it comes to recruiting teachers first to high school and then to primary school. Is the problem that the proposal is supported by the Education Association, the Lektorlaget and Tekna? Is the problem that it's promoted by the Left? Is the problem that it is not promoted by the government parties? Or is the problem in its inner core that, in practice, in order to get kindergarten bets, the state council has to pay an internal bill in the government, where it is not willing to spend the money that is going to, among other things. in order to ensure that the senior education measures, which will cost something, are not willing to spend the money needed to invest in systematic further education in some form, simply because the money to be spent on this is used? Or is the problem that the money you're going to spend, you're going to spend a free mid-hour at the SFO, or you're going to use it to extend the school day to begin with? Because if that is the problem, it is quite possible to redispatch that money so that it can be used in a meaningful way, as the representative Eriksen asked. Then the Council of State replied ‘both parts’. Well, if you don't get both of them, the question is: is the Council of State willing to make sure that the money you have in the system is at least used to ensure the quality of the school's contents, recruitment through senior measures, from other professions, systematic upgrading of competence through smart further education? I will not insist that the Council of State will accept the Left's proposal in the first place, but at least find a systematic approach to this. If you have the choice to use the money for this, or to use it to do something about the full-day school, at least the unique advice of the Left – and I believe that is also the advice of the opposition – is to use the money first to ensure the basis. I'll just stay here when the council says he's so close to us. Then there's only one thing missing, and that's to take out his leg and would act. Then there is still no one who can say it better than Vømmöl Spellmannslag: ‘It’s not now that it’s getting tough.’ I became so engaged in the first post that I was guilty of the incorrectness of forgetting to include the Progress Party among the parties supporting the proposal. The proposal I made was on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. So it had to be formal. The president was also so overwhelming that I didn't get an amazing question. In that way, this is one day when we just listen intensely to each other's good will, and do not hang ourselves in all formalities. But that is now in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e686	The representative Odd Einar Dørum then made a correction in respect of the proposers. Of course it should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e689	The posts of the representative, Eriksen and the representative, Mr Dørum, may not be contested. These representatives are trying to say that the Government has no action, and that they are just talking about words. However, when we look at the presentation by the Council of State in this debate on the measures to be taken, for example. in the case of senior measures, when the Government has taken action in the field of teacher training, when there will be a statement to the Stortinget on the measures envisaged, both those taken and those to be taken in the field of teacher training, when this government has set up 500 new places of study in teacher training, etc., etc., it shows that the Government has taken action. It's not just words. This debate has also shown that, at present, no recruitment plan is needed because the measures are implemented in different ways. And these measures are being implemented. But from the opposition, it's actually just words. In this debate, they have not at all promoted any concrete action on what such a plan should contain, other than what the Council of State has explained and what it implements. It's like it's important to recruit a teacher. Teachers and school management are the most important resources in our schools, both to provide skills and to shape the society we have today. Then I believe that when the opposition adopts the way to talk in the Storting, as if this government and the majority in this room are not concerned with recruiting for the teaching profession, this is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e700	Let me answer some of the challenges that have arisen, because this is a central debate. Let me underline that. I don't think anyone in the Storting doesn't think this is a central debate, and that it's the challenges that we're facing as a society. So the question is whether to have a plan, or whether to do a lot of individual measures that point in the same direction. I understand that much of the debate here is really a skin debate, because in substance we agree. When it comes to the follow-up to teacher training, or NOKUT's evaluation, I record a broad commitment to the Storting because we have to do something about it. You can't do that any other way than by going in and talking to each institution. This means that we sent out a letter early to each teacher training institution on the steps to be taken to follow up the NOCUT report. I received it on March 1. In one-stop management discussions with each institution, we now demand a completely different way of meeting the issue of non-response. That is why it is very central, as the representative Eriksen Soreide also points out, that there are many young people who fall from teacher training. We're very concerned about that. This means that the answer is not just new places of study in teacher training. It's also an answer, but it's clear that we have to make sure that all those who are there stay there, and that they get a professional follow-up and guidance that makes them want to be good teachers in Norwegian school. Obviously, it's an institutional responsibility. The size could say that it is important, yes, but I have to engage in dialogue with each institution to make sure they take that responsibility. And they do. Getting more teachers, or maybe more students to stay in teacher training, is perhaps the most important single thing. The senior measures that we helped finance during the last salary settlement were negotiated between the Education Association and the KS. We contributed $90 million. kr in the last turn, and fortunately it helped to ensure that we did not have a conflict in the teacher's settlement. Only the fact that there was no conflict was in itself very important. These measures, I hope, have the effect that the seniors stay longer in school, because the adults, the slightly gray-haired teachers are a very important resource. It's a school management responsibility to help them find their place in school. We see, for example: some are experimenting with young teachers and well-adult teachers teaching together in order to interact with experienced and new teachers, as well as with young and adult teachers. It is a very important measure that I think more people should also try. That the school owners have a responsibility to contribute to good adult teachers having their place in school is important. But here again – and I think that is underlined by several in this debate: there is no simple answer, and there is not one response here. But the government has, on a broad scale, taken many measures – let me just say that, because I record the rhetoric of the opposition as high. I think you'll see that many of those measures are very good, accurate, and dialogue with organisations and institutions is what will have the greatest effect. That means that we're now asking the SSB to rewrite a projection to see if the situation is different than it was at the previous SSB survey we had. If it turns out to be more dramatic, of course we'll come back to Stortinget and consider how we'll handle it. But per year. It's true that the majority writes, that's not the basis for very dramatic events. But there is a basis for action that we are in the process of taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e713	Let me comment on Mr Jensen's comments. When we in the Christian People's Party and the rest of the opposition released Soria Moria's formulations, Jens Stoltenberg, our prime minister, said: "Don't think about what we're saying, but focus on what we're actually doing. Yes, we hear what they say, and we record what the government is doing. What we can record today is that government parties will not vote in favour of proposals that say that a binding national recruitment plan is to be implemented as soon as possible and by the end of 2007 at the latest to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers in high school. You don't. Nor will a binding national recruitment plan be put in place by the end of 2008 at the latest to ensure a sufficient number of qualified primary school teachers. We've taken them by the word. We measure them by what they do, and not just by what they say. This is the result. I wish they had used the chance to get a whole big deal – the left has taken the initiative, the opposition is with us – to put this on the agenda. We don't need any more presentations and debates. Now we need action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e722	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e725	I find that the government parties do not think there is any reason to emphasise what I am saying. But at least they should have listened to Mr Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen from the Labour Party, who in 1998 promoted an initiative similar to what I am promoting today. He himself says to the magazine Education that he was exceptionally well received by the then State Council Lilletun, and he advises everyone in the Stortingen to act the same now when this initiative is promoted by the Left. I'm just leaving those words there, because it's maybe the heaviest comment that can come at all. This is a large-scale representative with extensive experience, including from educational issues, and who, in a previous regime, by another government, was met in a different way. But now we're told that it's just discord. It's just to read Opebøen Hansen's posts as quoted in the magazine Education, otherwise a magazine that can be recommended to be read by most. Here you will find the quotations that I think put this debate in a very sharp and important relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e730	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3376]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e746	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government — within the allocated speaking time — and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e753	The size shall now examine Document No. 8:80, from the Progress Party, to conduct a referendum on the relationship between state and church at the same time as the municipal elections in 2007. The proposal became known to the Committee in May. We felt that the time was short, but we still chose to process this document. Now there's a well-known case that there are different opinions between the parties that make up the majority in this case, in terms of referenda in the relationship between state and church. Otherwise, it can be said that both local and national referenda form an important part of the political system in Norway. As early as 1892, the Stortinget introduced the local referendum institute in the context of the choice of language – Danish or national language – in the school. Since 1905 there have been six national referendums, and only since 1970 more than 500 local referendums have taken place — language, alcohol, municipal borders and names. All such votes — both before and now — are advisory. It is a representative political body, i.e. a local government and a national parliament, which has a monopoly on decision-making. In other words, elected politicians get the last word. Back to this specific matter. The whole committee, with the exception of the proposers, has gathered to refrain from voting in favour of the proposal. The background for rejecting this may be somewhat different, but a collective majority – i.e. all except the Progress Party – states that regardless of the attitude to the use of the referendum institute in relation to this matter, the majority believe that it will neither be practicable nor sufficient time to provide voters with a satisfactory decision-making basis, to announce a referendum as early as September of the current year. That is the proposal put forward in the draft representative. At a later stage, the Progress Party presented another proposal – that was the wish for a referendum on the state-church relationship ‘at the appropriate time’. The majority do not wish to support such a proposal, where the main issue — the actual issue — has not yet been clarified. The relationship between state and church is not such a precise theme that a referendum can be ascribed to it. Then I'm going to go to the Center Party's point of view. In the file, it is referred to an opinion in the evening post where I say that the state-church case is suitable for referendum. That's right. The Central Party has on several occasions called for an advisory referendum to be held on the question of the continuation or winding-up of today's church system. In this sense, we are in line with those who are behind the proposal for a representative that we are debating here today. The proposal reflects a number of assessments, opinions and positions to which the centre party belongs and may join. We think it is particularly important to let the people's will on matters that involve significant changes in constitutional conditions, which the state church system can definitely do, as mentioned earlier. But in this case, we are awaiting a big message with a clearer decision-making basis. The central party has a national meeting decision that means that we want a referendum if the ties between state and church are cut over, while changes in the current church system will not require a referendum, in the opinion of the centre party. That is why, in this case, we are behind the majority's comments. To clarify: the central party wants to look at the further process in the state-church debate and reserve us the right and the opportunity to take the initiative to wind up an advisory referendum in this matter at a later stage. We are therefore awaiting clarification of the matter's action options from the Government. Equally full: there is much that speaks for the fact that, in matters like this, it can make sense – and not least, it can contribute to a more living rule of the people – with a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e774	The Labour Party will not support the proposal of the Progress Party. We all want the will of the people to be expressed in this matter. That is why we have arranged the most comprehensive consultation process in some cases. The problem with this proposal for a representative is that it does not specify what the referendum should really be about. Is there to be the paragraph that the State should have a public religion, about the mission, about the number of state councils to constitute the church council, or about the role of the King within the church? If we are not aware of what this referendum is about, we can end up in a situation where we have organized a referendum, but where there will be a complete conflict with what this referendum will actually have consequences for the country's constitution. Thus, a referendum can help to increase the level of conflict and not lead to a comprehensive compromise. I am convinced that this Greatness is going to arrive at a comprehensive compromise on the matter of State-Church relations. Then the clear vision of the Progress Party, as opposed to the Church of State, will also be part of this extensive discussion. I look forward to a thorough debate on this issue during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e783	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur, at least for the part in which she represented the Central Party's policy, for both moral support and good reflections. As far as the Workers' Party's articles are concerned, I would like to say that it is a well-known approach on the part of the Workers' Party that the State Church system is not a whole but divided into different provisions of the Constitution. Of course, the formula is that there are different provisions of the Constitution that make up the National Church Institute. In fact, as a responsible political body, we must take a position on the whole. This means that one must have an overall assessment – I expect it also in the announcement from the Government to the harvest – of the state church system as such and what results it will produce for the Constitution. The proposal for the Progress Party makes it clear that we want a process for a referendum, in which we need to clarify how this voting is to be done. The relationship between state and church has been the subject of a number of investigations. There have been many different forms of association between the state and the church. The last one is the Preferences of the Gehenna. The selection has indicated that a distinction should be made between church and state. This sparked a nationwide debate on what the peoples of the future would look like. The church itself is divided into the question whether it should still be a state church or not. The political parties are divided across traditional party boundaries, and the Workers' Party has launched its own model, which has neither been for consultation nor for the assessment of others other than the Workers' Party itself. The three government parties have three different positions on the issue and the opposition has not been brought together in its conclusions. In other words, this is a question which, despite its importance, is not simply to have a clear view of the political environment, although the Progress Party is quite clear that we want a distinction between Church and State, because in that way we believe that we will have a church that is independent and free from political governance. At the same time, we also need to recognise that, in order to change the church system, there is a need for a comprehensive treatment of all the provisions of the Constitution that affect the relationship between state and church. These changes must therefore obtain a qualified majority in the Grand Duchy in order for the church system to be modernised. Such a change will affect each of us to a greater or lesser extent, and then we believe it is important that each of us has the opportunity to express his opinion, especially when political leadership fails. When political leadership cracks in all directions on such an important issue, the elected people have the opportunity to ask people for advice on direction choices. That is why the Progress Party believes that in today's situation it would be beneficial to ask for the advice of the people. After people have said their main direction, we'll be able to sit down cross-politically and follow up. The Party considers that it is reasonable to add such a referendum to the choice of the harvest, but notes that the Committee considers that it would be impracticable to do so. That is why, of course, we have put forward a subsidiary proposal – in addition to the primary one – which says it will be open when a referendum can be held, but it will nevertheless ensure that the people are heard before a decision is taken. It may well be that the Centre Party – if not in this round – will support the proposal in the next round. The relationship between state and church is a delicate subject for many. It is also the question of whether it is natural to hold a referendum on such a case. Of course, I have respect and understanding for it, but I fear that we are now establishing a situation where it will not be possible to achieve new and sensible reforms in the relationship between state and church. So what's the situation now, there won't be a majority to change the relationship between state and church. There is no political basis for sufficient consensus on the issue. There is no political leadership in the Government that helps to reconcile interests or to be a driving force in the face of future changes. The Council of Churches should be the one who could drive the process forward and into a constructive path. Instead, he has chosen to be the Spokesman of the Workers' Party in the matter and is clearly no longer concerned with the fact that the Government is made up of two more parties, one that will keep the order of the day, and one that will separate the Church from the state. There's nothing to suggest that the government will agree with itself, and even if it should, it's still a long way to go until a constitutional majority. In such an unclear political terrain, one will stand by, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to give the people the opportunity to give advice on direction in the work on such an important matter. That is why I am addressing the main and subsidiary proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e809	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e812	The right will not support the proposal. As the representative Anundsen was involved, this question has been the subject of a number of investigations, and they fully reveal the complexity of the issue. I think the majority of the committee has decided on the proposal that there should be a referendum before September. It might be interesting to ask the Progress Party how to actually put forward a decision-making basis for people, so that a sensible position could be taken before September, in a referendum. I think that is almost impossible, and that is why we are not in favour of the proposal either. In fact, we think that the Progress Party should go a little by itself if you really want to endorse such a proposal, because, as the debate here shows, even the parties that have voted in order for it to be a referendum cannot vote in favour of the proposal, precisely because at present it is impossible to know what the people are really going to decide on and rule on. So here you should take the time you need, and maybe come back to the question when it's relevant. That's how we see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e821	There is no doubt that the debate that has taken place both in the political environment, in the church environment, in the municipality of Norway and among the people most of the time after the decision of the Committee on Budgets came, shows that the Norwegian Church has a rather central place in people's consciousness. It means something in people's lives. If we are to make changes to a state church system that has been in force for 500 years, we must find out, believe the Christian People's Party, a new order that may be arduous in the years to come. Our view of the referendum has emerged on several occasions. We in the Christian People's Party believe that this is not suitable for a referendum, because it is not just a yes or a no. There are many potentialities and elements that need to be in place to create a whole, and it has not been possible for the Storting or the political environment to make a process. For the Christian People's Party, our national meeting has given us clear instructions that, among other things. shall be a liability in respect of a value paragraph before any changes are made. So it's going to be completely impossible to manage to get a vote on this. What the Christian People's Party has done, however, is that at Stortinget we have initiated dialogue and encouraged all parties to sit down to discuss the further passage in the matter. This initiative has been well received and followed up. The government has said that at the end of the year it wants to present a case on the future relationship between state and church. Here the Christian People's Party will stress the importance of this not being a matter that should be decided on in the red-green backroom, but that there should be a thorough and good process in the matter in the future. I also hope that the proponents of the Progress Party will participate constructively in this process, and that it is not just the question of whether or not we should have a referendum, which concerns the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e832	For the sake of order: although it is not the main theme – which is the relationship between church and state – the position of the Left is clear: firstly, we want the State not to be attached to a particular denomination, and secondly, that the Church should not have the State as the sovereign. We've said that if there's a willingness to gather on such principles, we're open to discuss a value paragraph. We're open on it, and we're willing to go in and discuss it. The left has also made it very clear that we do not see a church system in which the state religion is abolished, while the state continues to rule the church. That's the position. But what's the theme today is essentially not this, even if it's a backtrace. It's a referendum. It could be, if you were to be really opportunistic – from our point of view – that in a referendum there might be a better chance for our vision than for the compromises that are being hammered out at the National Assembly of the Workers' Party. But that is not our position on a referendum. The position we have in the referendum, we have had all the time, completely independent of political wins and economic downturns. The left has never meant – and we do not mean now either – that the state church question is suitable for a referendum. In my opinion and in my view of the Left, there may be one argument that is the dominant one among all the arguments that we should not have, and that is that all the religious questions are ultimately also about the position and care of minorities in society. It is so fundamental that for this reason we do not want the polarization that a referendum will bring. All other considerations can easily be weighed in. I will not try to weigh the motives of others except to take for granted that people mean exactly what they say. From our side, this has always been the decisive argument that we have not wanted a referendum, nor in the time when we thought the Workers' Party was more open than it is in practice now, but we will see what comes out of this later. Nor are we changing such a fundamental position in changing economic conditions. We're at the point of principle. That means that, based on the conviction we have had for a long time, the Left will vote against both the primary and the subsidiary proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e843	As is known, a publicly appointed sample has investigated the State Church Scheme and any changes to it, and its investigation, NOU 2006:2, has been on a wide-ranging consultation. The investigation, the consultation and the public debate have otherwise shown that this is a complex matter, which engages deeply and widely. I am pleased that so many, both locally and nationally, have been involved in the debate. Issues about religion and freedom of belief and life create great commitment and strong feelings. It's easy to understand, because it touches the most fundamental aspects of being a human being -- our identity, respect for others, the big questions of life, standards of how we should live our lives, and the very possibilities of living a good life are affected by these questions. Therefore, we can confidently say that the issue of how to organise relations between the state and the Norwegian Church and belief and life-view policy more generally is very important both for many individuals and for society as a whole. That is why belief and outlook on life are also important policy issues. The government has in St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007 announced that there will be a major communication on the future relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church. The message is now being prepared, and as I have previously informed Stortinget, it is planned to be presented at the end of this year. The purpose of the notification will be to provide the Storting with a good basis for deciding whether to continue, reform or wind up the State Church system. The government has always had a common overall goal of finding a coherent solution to the church issue. That is why we want to emphasise that the big message we are presenting should contribute to a good debate and a fair treatment in the Stortinget. In the public debate on the State Church System, several have already called for a referendum to be held in the context of the examination of the matter, and the minority of the Committee has made proposals to that effect. The government has not yet taken a decision on the issue of referendum. I believe that it would be natural for the Storing Message to take that issue up to discussion. referendums are very rarely conducted in Norway, and I believe that we should carefully consider the issue if there are questions about implementing a referendum on this matter. As is reasonable, it will take a long time to implement any changes in the organisation of the relationship between state and church. I also believe that the issue of whether a referendum is to be conducted does not have to be decided in a hurry – and I perceive that the minority in the Committee is putting up with such a hurry. One should address the issue on a better basis than is currently available and in good time before any implementation. I believe, as the majority of the committee, that it is obviously not fair to hold a referendum as early as September this year, and that it would hardly be possible to achieve it. The minority in the Committee propose, in a subsidiary way, that the Stortinget should ask the Government to submit proposals for a referendum at a «appropriate time». Although the government has not yet taken a decision on this issue, I am personally preliminary skeptical. My scepticism is in several relationships that are partly interrelated. First of all, I emphasise that the political authorities have a responsibility — and should make a profit — to cooperate in finding broad and coherent solutions on this issue. referendums are, in experience, not always suitable for finding the broad, collapsing solutions. Church policy has been largely based on broad consensus on collective premises and solutions in the Storting. That's what the government wants to build on. More than ever before, it is important to facilitate such a collection. At the same time, I see this objective as more demanding than ever before. The issues of the organisation of relations between state and church and between state and belief and outlook on life may be controversial from more and more obvious perspectives than before. Secondly, I believe that the nature of the matter makes it ill-suited to a referendum. The matter is very complex and it may be difficult to formulate the issue(s) to be addressed by the people in an appropriate and comprehensive manner. One may risk losing needed nuances. We already know that the various questions raised by the state church discussion can find different solutions where one combines different elements in all the sub-questions raised by the matter. Thirdly, I would like to point out that changes to the Constitution are to be proposed for one major period, but can only be adopted in the next period. It must be voted over for two major periods. Thus, people also have an opportunity through a decision-making process to influence the composition of the Stortinge based on the State-Church question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e869	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e873	There are things that involve people, and there are things that everyone has an opinion about – and this is such a thing. It was mentioned here from a representative that there has been a broad consultation. Yes, a lot has been sent out. I am still a local government member, and I have been involved in handling this in our city council. But is there anyone in this room who thinks that the little man on the corner or the lady at the store somehow until now has been able to influence anything in terms of sight or opinions that should come out? It is important that people feel that they are involved in a decision, that they feel that they are being heard, that they are involved in all sorts of ways to be able to say what they want. I agree with the Council of State that it is complex, it is difficult. But things like that have to come out. They have to get up, and they have to be placed where they belong, and it's among the people most. How will the councils manage to bring out the people's vision, when he doesn't want to hear what they want?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e882	I have to say that you have a pretty clever idea of how to get most people to be heard, whose referendum is the only way it can be done. We've conducted one of the biggest hearings in history, with 2,500 hearings. All the councils, all the religious and life-vision organisations, all the municipalities, all the large and small political organizations and many others have been heard and have been given the opportunity to discuss this issue. We hope that we will continue this discussion through the work on the big message, and not least when the Stortinge case is dealt with – and perhaps also in the 2009 election campaign, which will bring together the big picture that will make the final choices on how to change the Constitution if necessary. The results of the hearing ended in that it was a majority who wanted the continuation of today's state church. I record that the Progress Party has decided that we want a dissolution of the Church of State, so it's not necessarily that the political parties immediately conclude what the people most express through a consultation process. We might learn a little bit about listening, some of them each.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e892	On the way in the Council of State's posts, I was basically a little happy, because I think the Council of State has opened up in a good way to get a proper review of the referendum theme in the announced paper. But the joy went over relatively quickly, for it did not take long for the Council of State to frame up a number of personal opinions relating to referendums. Then I am really interested primarily in getting the Council of State's assurance that his personal opinions relating to the issue of referendum will not affect the announcement of the magnificence to such an extent that we do not get a proper, neat and objective review of that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e897	It's just that I put my personal opinions and my personal commitment into the staging message, which makes it clean and tidy. When I express skepticism – but draw no conclusion – towards referendum, it is in the circumstances that I pointed out in my speech, but perhaps most importantly that it is very difficult to find broad compromises through referendum. When you are going to have a referendum, you have to make a very sharp and concrete proposal, and you have to say yes or no to it. As we have seen in the debate so far, the question of organisation between state and church contains a lot of different questions. Are we going to change Section 2 of the Constitution or are we going to keep it? Is the part of the state’s relationship to religion to be removed, if any? Should we move the appointment of bishops from the Church Council to other ecclesiastical bodies? Is the Church's economy to be organised in a different and new way? How should all these questions be combined? It's very difficult to come up with good, broad and collective compromises about if you want a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e902	I share all the critical considerations of the Council of State regarding the use of referendums in this matter. That's where I think we're in complete agreement. But I think it's a glitch of inconsistency when the Council of State in the next moment uses the consultation process as if it were a referendum. It has even greater weaknesses if you just start counting the number of municipal governments that have responded like that and the number that have responded like that, the number of councils, etc. There are as well-known municipalities in this country with less than 500 inhabitants, and there are municipalities with over 500000 inhabitants. So it's going to be directly misleading people, if you use a simple enumeration that way. In addition, both the referendum institute and the hearing institute have the inherent weakness that there are people who formulate the questions, and they have a lot of ease to formulate the questions based on the answers they want. Is that what the Council of State shares with me?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e912	Of course, any answer may be influenced by the question asked. Now I want to say that with regard to the round of consultations we've had on state and church, the real question is to comment on the position of the Gjønnes Committee. That's what's at stake. But in addition, we asked some specific questions to facilitate the summary of the answers. When there were 2,500 hearing bodies, a certain systematisation is needed. But it was quite freely for all the hearing bodies to give their own free judgements completely independent of them. I also fully agree that you sort of compare apples and pears when you, for example. count municipalities. Then you get a slightly different count than if you look at population numbers. But in the exact same way, it's when you count up organizations. LO – which speaks for the State Church – is considerably larger than small organisations, who may have spoken against. I don't think you can draw a clear mathematical conclusion, but at least you can see from the hearing opinions that there is no broad popular requirement to separate state and church.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e919	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e924	I interpret the preliminary debate in such a way that, for the sake of clarity, the proposers have maintained proposal No. 1 but agrees with the committee majority that it was an unrealistic and impracticable proposal upon closer scrutiny. Then I guess you might as well have dropped it and satisfied yourself with the subsidiary proposal – but let go. The reason why I asked for the floor was that the debate always becomes a mixture of a more fundamental debate on referendum in general and the relationship between the representative decision-making system and the use of a referendum – that is the case in this case too – but even more so because I became a bit perplexed about the rapporteur's contributions. If I understood her correctly, her description of the central party's view of the question is practically consistent with the subsidiary proposal, but I perceived it so that the centre party will nevertheless not join the subsidiary proposal. Now, of course, that proposal has one crucial flaw, whether or not it should be adopted, namely that it has been formulated in such a transparent way that it can be interpreted in a close manner. It is not even necessary to see it in the context of the ongoing process, for ‘proper time’ may be a time in 100 years, for that matter. So I think maybe the level of precision could have been a little bit higher. But the basic problem remains – that it is very difficult to formulate questions suitable for referendums, because they usually have to pass in yes/no categories, i.e. the choice between two very clear options. And the only way to think about it in this case is that, as far as I understand, the central party's tactical wish scenario is for or against the status quo. All popular vote research shows that if you put the question like this, you're almost 99 pst. ensure that the answer is against change and for the status quo. But the Center Party wants to keep it in reserve only – if it carries in the direction of a position you don't share. My question to the President-in-Office is: is it not a far-reaching tactical use of referendum? Because then it's not the interest in what the people had to think, which drives it all, but the use of a referendum as an instrument to impress a particular policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e937	I guess that's why we've been chosen, both pay and I, I think, to try to get the picture of a special policy – that's for our party's policy. I understand that the wage tried to shake a little in my face in relation to this with ‘the right time’. But it's like we in the Center Party don't want a referendum if, as I put it, the relationship between state and church doesn't go wrong. It is also the different opinion polls and also hearing bodies that have actually expressed themselves. But if one in a big-time message gets things where this looks different, where the state and the church separate layers, then we think it's right that one gets a referendum in that context. I will immediately have the floor, also like to raise one thing in relation to Dagrun Eriksen's posts, where she said that she hoped that the decision in this important matter was not taken on the'red-green backroom'. Then I think it's funny to think that today we're going to discuss the private school law, where the Christian People's Party is probably inside the heat, to use that expression. I also think that in a state-church case it is very important to have a broad compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e944	I don't know if there's any comfort that the Christian People's Party might be on its way into the heat. At least there is no comfort in this context. I take the floor first because we were challenged on some questions from some of the speakers. My main impression is that we're actually getting closer to a proper assessment of the referendum institute in this case after the big shot has been presented, and I'm glad that the Council of State is so clear in its assurances that there should be a neat and good review of whether this issue is suitable for referendums. The party of progress thinks it is. The center party believes it is, but votes slightly differently in the hall today. It is a complex issue — the EU issue was also relatively complex — but it is such that it must provide a basis for a referendum in common. The Christian People's Party feared that the Progress Party would not participate actively and constructively in the ongoing treatment of the State-Church issue, but I can assure them that we will. And of course, we believe that the proposal we have made today is such a constructive contribution, because it could give a small push to the political environment to get out of the ditch in which we are really in, where the political distance between the parties is so great that it does not seem to be able to become a constitutional majority for changes, despite the fact that all parties except one – the centre party – want changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e956	I really didn't intend to take the floor, but I couldn't resist the temptation during Inger Enger's second speeches, because it's a rather strange and, in my opinion, outrageous attitude to the referendum institute if that's the way it is and it's desirable to have a referendum if the state and the church are to separate teams, but not to have a similar referendum and to ask for the people's advice if you're going to continue as today. The relationship between church and state is probably so much about what kind of state we're going to have, like what kind of church we're going to have. It is strikingly reminiscent of the attitude of the Central Party towards referendums on the EU issue. As far as I remember, there were no parties other than the Central Party that clearly indicated that they were not going to follow the people's advice if the people's council was opposed to what the Center Party wanted. So they were going to follow the people's advice in a referendum if the people answered no. If the people answered yes, the Central Party would have clearly stated that they were not going to follow the will of the people. So even if today we are not going to have the big principle debate on referendums and not the big principle debate on the relationship between state and church, and what kind of state we are going to have, I think that's reason to remember, once referendums become a topic, that it is necessary to have a principleal attitude towards referendums to a greater extent than the central party here shows, if there is to be a basis for discussing the issue of referendums also in this matter. There are several parties here, and the Council of State included, which have expressed views I share on the question of the possibility of holding a referendum on this matter, and in particular the possibility of doing so within the period the Progress Party originally wants. But at least I think it's part of the debate and history that it's important to have principled positions on referendums, and that they're going to apply both ways: that they're not only going to apply if the people's council agrees with what we want to hear, or the meaning we like to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e965	As I said, we will come back with an assessment of this matter in connection with the big message coming to the autumn, so we will have the opportunity to discuss it then. But it could also be interesting to hear from the proposers what they have already thought to be the theme of this referendum, because that is clearly the issue. Should you say yes or no to a state church? So what does it mean to say yes? What does it mean to say no? What room for action does the Stortinget and the Government have after obtaining a yes or no, if any, to find different solutions? I believe that this should be a minimum of clarification in such a debate, and that will also be a basis for us when we are going to work further. Let me also just mention a reason for the scepticism that I have against referendum. It is that questions of faith and life are partly about our society in the vast majority of relationships with its church in Norway. But it is also a matter of some fundamental minority rights, i.e. human rights issues in relation to freedom of belief and life, which are not always suitable for the majority's decision-making right through a referendum, but where we need to balance the consideration between what the majority wants and what are important minority principles. That perspective should also be taken into account when considering such fundamental questions as to how a society is organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e972	I am very pleased that Trond Giske says that referendum will be a central part of the big news coming. I think we'll all be served if you're in favour of referendums or if you're against referendums. After all, there are a lot of people who are concerned about this topic. As far as the Church of State is concerned, we're told that everything that has to do with church business is deeply involved in people's lives. If I'm going to defend why we don't want a referendum if it's like now, it's because people feel secure around the system that's now. We know what we have, and we accept, of course, a modernisation, that is, we can make changes within today's church system – the Church meeting is well under way. But if there's going to be big changes, we think it's right that the people are being asked. We have referendums in this country, and then the question is, Should you listen to a advice or not? Yes, you have to listen to a council, but it is the elected politicians who have to have the last word at the end of the seventh. I hear in the Chamber today that there are actually representatives who do not want a referendum, and they do not think that the hearings and answers are so important. Then, of course, the elected politicians were given very great power. It's true that we have it, but at the same time we have to be willing to listen to the people's advice in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e981	Anders Anundsen has had the word twice before, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e984	Governments challenged what should be the theme of a referendum. He may even want to give the answer in the big message he is about to send to the harvest. Unlike the Workers' Party, the Progress Party believes that the relationship between state and church is a whole. It is only the Workers' Party that divides the state-church relationship into different constitutional provisions. The party of progress is of the opinion that the various constitutional provisions are a consequence of the state church system, and then it is not unnatural to add the principle of a state church or not to a referendum. Then it will have consequences for the constitutional provisions relevant to the church regime. I also react a little to the fact that one kind of suggests, and it has been done here in the past, that a referendum on the relationship between state and church will be a referendum on minority rights. It won't be. There is no one who puts freedom of religion to a referendum, nor has the Progress Party proposed. This is a question of the relationship between the state and the Church and an organization of the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e993	The representative, Inger S. Enger, intended to have heard that the Council of State said that the issue of referenda would be a ‘central part’ of the Storing Message. I did not hear that, and I would be surprised if it was going to be a ‘central part’ of a comprehensive notification of the case complex. When I asked for the floor, it was because I would like to thank Inger S. Enger for helping to clarify what I was asking for, by confirming quite unambiguously that for the Central Party, referendum is a party-tactical question and nothing else, that is. referendum is used as part of the political process in Stortinget. Then I must say that I share the views of the representative, Ms. Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, that there will be some kind of double communication that I think is suitable for undermining the voters' confidence in our political decision-making system. It is, of course, the Greatness who decides whether or not it will exclude the people's answer to a question, and it is of course true that formally no referendum can bind the Greatness. But morally, it's just as clear to me that if the Storting asks the voters to humiliate themselves and go to the urns and answer a question because the Storing regards it as very important, then you have a silent moral obligation to take into account the answer you get back, whether you like the answer and can use it for your own purposes, or you don't like the answer. So I want to warn you that the Storting is playing black player games with the voters by deciding a referendum on a question while the elected representatives reserve their seats in relation to the fact that they only want to follow the outcome if they get the answer they themselves want.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1000	I'm not going to take the floor for the debate on the logic of the referendum and whether wages are right in that 99 pst. the referendum ends with the status quo. If so, that promises good for future referendums on the EU issue! But I took the floor because the representative of the Progress Party said that he believed that the state church question was a whole. In the past, the representative of Wages and salaries in the Chamber, with a great deal of weight, meant that § 2, § 16, § 21, etc. It is linked in whole, and if the state church system is to be abolished, the reference in Section 2 to the religion of the state and Christianity must also be terminated. I then interpret the representative from the Progress Party as sharing the view that by lifting the state church system as the Progress Party will, we must also amend Section 2 in full, so that we no longer have a reference to Norway and Christianity. It's clarifying, because it makes the landscape more tidy. I record that the Christian People's Party has a completely different view of this matter, but it does make the debate clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1007	I record that the attitude of the Progress Party on this issue is that the people should vote over today's system or no state church at all, no reference to religion in the Basic Law at all. This will allow us to find ourselves in a situation where we are changing a long tradition in Norway for hundreds of years in a referendum, perhaps with the lowest possible majority. That, I think, is going to increase the contradictions in Norway in terms of our common values and important views on the concerns of our minorities. It will create contradictions and demonstrate very clearly that the Progress Party is not interested in creating broad compromises and comprehensive solutions on what should be a common value base in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1012	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1015	Third and absolute last time – President! I asked for the word because I feel the need to clarify a misunderstanding. The Council of State was injured in order to reproduce my view of the matter. My view, which I have argued for also in this room, is that if you want to keep the state religion in Section 16 and Section 4, you also have to keep it in Section 2, and it is something quite different than the Council of State omitting it as.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1020	SV had not foreseen that this debate would evolve as he has done here today, or take as much space and time on the Stortinget's agenda, so we really would not want to take the word, because we are some in the setting, 100 pst. I still take the word to say that we don't take the word, not at all an expression of passivity on our part. On the contrary, this is a matter that involves a lot of people in SV, and about which we have good and thorough discussions. This question, which is raised by the representatives of the Progress Party, we reject with the majority of the committee, but we do not take a position on the issue of referendum. I believe that there is something in Storting's Rules of Procedure that the debate should deal with one thing. I may have thought that this debate has taken a slightly different direction than exactly what we have to deal with, is about, and I think this is too important a question for us to use such a kind of debate for eloquence, which I think the debate has well marked. So from our point of view, it's a question that engages the party strongly, and we look forward to going into the discussions on the content of the upcoming big business message and the subsequent processing in Stortinget. We take the question seriously, so the fact that we're drawing a little late, is more because we're surprised that the debate became like he did, than we thought the question was irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1030	I'm going to agree that I think the debate has taken a little off with what was really the topic, and I guess I didn't expect us to have a fundamental debate with regard to referendums in general. I also think the representative Anniken Huitfeldt draws the interpretation of our answer to what should be the theme of such a referendum, well far. So here we're talking about an advisory referendum, where we want to focus on the distinction between church and state. The Progress Party is also very concerned that we should still be able to have a people's church, and we are still engaged in taking care of Norwegian cultural heritage and the Christian faith on which we build our society, so it will be a theme we'll come back to. But this matter is about the question of adding this to the people in order to clarify whether we should have a distinction between church and state.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1035	I think that the debate took off, or evolved – or the word you use – has been extremely useful. In particular, I think the last post was for instance unexplanatory. When you go to the pulpit here and say that we want to have a referendum in September on the distinction between state and church, but that all that means if we're going to have a broad people's church, that's what we get back to, in the name of truth, I think it's an incredibly strange approach to the decision-making process on the perhaps most important constitutional issues of this great age, because this affects all people in Norway in a very fundamental way. I just don't think that most people deserve to be met with such a nonchalant attitude to things that affect their lives in many important contexts, whether they belong to the Norwegian Church, other religious and life views, or no religious and life views. It's quite right, as the representative Eriksen Soreide says, that this isn't just about which church we're going to have. It's about which state we're going to have. When you go through a Document No. Eight proposals invite Stortinget to say that you are going to have a referendum in September, at least you have to be able to go up to the pulpit in Stortinget and say what you are going to have a referendum on. The representative's salary is right in saying that the interpellation debate we had here earlier was about whether you could change Section 2 without changing Sections 4 and 16. However, in so far as I registered in connection with the work of the Gjønnes Committee, the wage also means that something in Section 2 should be removed, i.e. not the whole of Section 2, but that the reference to the “Gospel Lutheran Religion” as the State’s religion should not be in Section 2. When the Progress Party says that this is a whole, it must be interpreted to mean that it is a package, either – or, that a no to the Church in the referendum in September must lead to a change in all these paragraphs. Otherwise, if you think there are compromise solutions in between here, you have to specify what this referendum is about. If you think of some kind of'multiple choice' form for the voters, where they can tick the referendum § 2, § 4, § 16, § 21, etc., funding municipal or autonomous, the Information Society's fund is included or not included, etc., then I believe that you have abdidicated as a parliamentarian. Nor is it the way referendums have ever been used in our political history.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1046	I think it's in a wise book that what you want others to do to you, you should do to them. I have deep respect and almost admiration for the power of the Council of State to be a parliamentary genre, so I will not leave the comment to the Progress Party to be commented on by my side, other than in the following way: The Council of State represents a political party that, at its national meeting, felt that it was important to wind up the state religion in Norway, but still retain the government of the Church. Whether it's a fundamental point of view, it's not a religious point of view, but it's an expression of the principle that it's always best when the Workers' Party has control, no matter what the content is. I'm not going to tear it up any further, but I'm going to say that I think there are representatives of the party that has made some principal and tidy contributions on the occasion of the case, and these I hope will be the basis of when we later get a debate. I would like to be so clear then and say that since I am a member of the Norwegian Church, I do not think much about the arrangement for which the Council of State has taken up and passed through at the national meeting of its party, namely that those who are members of the Church will become a part of the religious system of the state, while the state will otherwise liquidate it all. So, in other words, the state terminates the bond to a confederation, while it retains its control of what is left. I think that's a total lack of principles in relation to ideology and religious debate in most ways, but I realized that when we got close to this, it might be a bit disturbing in the inner mind of the Council of State, and that it was therefore better to shake a little bit on the Advancement Party – it's better to sweep for the door of others than to sweep for their own. But this I think became a rigid piece, especially when the Council of State, which represents such a position, decides to take others. A little thought before the Storing Message comes might create a basis for a dialogue here in Stortinget. That is what the Council of State has previously called for, but there will hardly be a wide dialogue in the Storting if it is to be based on the principle that state religion is liquidated, while the government's governance of the Church of State continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1055	We have few occasions in this room to discuss the state church question. This is one of them, and so it's good that there's a thorough debate, because it's an important matter. Now I think the representative of Dørum will be well served to look at Stortinget's map, and see that today's discussion is about the issue of referendum or not. That's the Document No. The 8 is about. Whether the Workers' Party's national meeting decisions are suitable for a broad compromise or not, it may be a slightly different discussion, but since the representative Dørum takes it up, I can answer that question. It is fully possible to change Section 2 without changing the other paragraphs. Sweden did so when they took their first step towards the dissolution of the church system. For many years the paragraph referring the religion of the nation to Christianity had been removed, while maintaining other paragraphs. Yes, even after you have completely dissolved the church system, you have retained the paragraph that says the King should belong to the Swedish Church. So here's a lot of practical solutions. It is possible that Dørum is not interested enough in the issue of referendum, and that he must therefore address other issues here. But when he says that the state should retain its rule over the Church, it is completely wrong. The forum, the body that has authority in the Church, is the members of the Church of State, the members of the Norwegian Church of the Norwegian Government. We are a full-fledged part of the Norwegian Church, we are an organ in the Norwegian Church, and we are not then the state that rules the Church. We are a group of state church members who have a particular authority in the Norwegian Church. That's how you should bring yourself into the ballast if you're going to do to others what you want others to do to yourself. Then I think point number. 1 is to be exactly what you're describing, and point 1 is to be exactly what you're describing. 2: do not interpret the position of others other than they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1066	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1069	The parallel to Sweden is not comprehensive, but I can't go into detail and comment on it now. Of course, I know the Stortinge's agenda, and I expect the Council of State to know it as well. I expect that the Council of State is also a member of a free debate and free association. He is himself a happy follower of it when it suits him, so I figured he would allow others to participate in the same sport. Or have the rules possibly changed, since state councils can have the word more times than representatives? I think the Council of State should assume that I went to school, learned to read and think, and that also other members of the Workers' Party than himself possess this property.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1080	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see 3377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1088	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1096	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 7 and 8, by Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the Right and the Left. 9 and 10, by Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right In the course of the debate, the rapporteurs tabled a proposal No. 5 for transmission proposals, and this is amended accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is advised to launch a pilot project of vocational guidance in secondary school, where advisers come from secondary school, but mainly work in secondary school. Local business may also benefit from being involved as contributors to such a test project.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to open an extended trial of the municipal operation of secondary schools, in order to reduce barriers between secondary and secondary schools.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a system in which secondary schools that are able to reduce the number of students who stop training before school is completed receive financial incentives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1137	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Prom, right and left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide full transparency on the state and performance of schools, not only for users but also for the public.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to open up all or part of its own training courses in the professions, both in public schools and in health schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1159	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–4 and 6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a concrete escalation plan for all students who wish to do so to have access to free lessons’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a pilot project in a number of municipalities with summer schools based on the experience of the municipalities of Oslo from 2006.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a concrete package of measures on how to contribute to parental involvement in their children’s schooling.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines to ensure the necessary exchange of information between primary and secondary schools, so that students who need it receive an organised offer from high school.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a educational training package which is offered to the educational establishments and to the apprentice in the enterprise’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1211	During the debate, Odd Einar Dørum has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size requests the Government to implement an obliging national recruitment plan as soon as possible and no later than the end of 2007 in order to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers in secondary school.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size requests the Government to implement an obliging national recruitment plan as soon as possible and no later than the end of 2008 in order to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers in primary school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1248	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for the Storting to hold a referendum on the relationship between state and church at the same time as the municipal elections in 2007.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate and propose a referendum on the relationship between church and state at an appropriate time.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07.ana.ud293e1284	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
