ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e28	The EEA Agreement is Norway’s main link with the EU and has, inter alia, ensuring Norwegian business access to the EU's internal market since 1994. The EEA Agreement has worked well. It is crucial for Norway that EU enlargement is also followed by an extension of the EEA to new Member States, most recently Romania and Bulgaria. Only in this way will it be possible to continue the development of a common EU and EEA legislation and prevent possible new barriers to trade. The main issue in the negotiations was financial contributions to social and economic cohesion and access to the market for fish and fish products. We have recorded that the negotiations were demanding, as EU requirements were non-discrimination of financial contributions compared to the previous round of enlargement, and Romania and Bulgaria came on the other side of the negotiating table together with the EU. It underlines a point also raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement last Monday, that the interests of the Member States individually play a crucial role in the EU's position. Norway will make a significant contribution to economic and social development in Bulgaria and Romania, two of the poorest countries in Europe. At the same time, we have achieved a good result in terms of market access for Norwegian fish and fish products, while at the same time abolishing several technical conditions for exports to the EU. The Committee is particularly pleased that half of the funds for social and economic cohesion will be allocated to bilateral cooperation programmes with Bulgaria and Romania, which will be directly managed by Norway, and require cooperation projects with Norwegian actors in priority areas as specified in the Proposition. There are just such projects that can build lasting links between our countries. It may concern both the private and public sectors, institutions, social partners and non-governmental organisations. Following the disappearance of former Eastern Europe funds through previous enlargements and financial contributions in this context, funding to enable Norwegian actors to participate in an enlarged EEA has been strongly sought. I am particularly pleased that the Government emphasises the possible involvement of the social partners in cooperation projects, and refers here to the entire field of activity, the social dimension and social dialogue in the EU and the EEA area, but also to other non-governmental organisations. I am aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has received a joint enquiry from the social partners in Norway, who are now asking for opportunities to strengthen this opportunity within the countries involved in the previous enlargement process, but that is one thing we need to address in a different context. In conclusion, the Committee asks that the Government also evaluate these cooperation arrangements after the end of the contractual period. With today's decision here in Stortinget, we are getting an agreement on an enlarged EEA, which covers all EU countries, and so we are continuing a well-functioning EEA agreement of crucial importance for Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e49	I would like to join in what the rapporteur says. I will also, on our behalf, give tribute to the Government for the facility on the financing mechanism, which we now feel has been given a much better and active form than what we have had in the past. The fact that we can now, in a perhaps better way, bring Norwegian environments into these bilateral cooperation programmes seems to us to be important. There was some frustration over that in the previous regimes. There's a lot of money there, and we think we should have a more direct intervention in it, which we now understand we're getting. I also want us to take with us what we have now learned, in future negotiations, either when existing agreements are to be renegotiated or when new countries come into existence. We believe that we must try to give priority to countries where the need is greater. There is no doubt that there is a great need in Bulgaria and Romania, but there may be countries that have benefited from our financial contributions over a long period of time and where the needs may not be so great anymore. It may also apply in a few years to some of the ten countries that we entered in the previous round, so that we constantly update this and target it much more. Then we think that this might get the support you need for this kind of financial contribution, which unfortunately, perhaps, seems to have come to be, at least for a certain period of time in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e56	Let me first join in the initial remarks of the case rapporteur. I am very pleased that we have a unanimous opinion on the matter. It is also an expression of the broad support for the outcome. I would like to say that there are enough people who are aware that these schemes are expensive, but they need to be balanced against how important they are to us – and not least to Romania and Bulgaria. With such a large share of the market located within the EU, we recognise all the need and importance of entering into that type of agreement. There has been some attention to the process itself, and it is possible that there will be more processes and new negotiations in the future. We had hoped that the different rounds of agreements you've had, would eventually give us some – what to say – criteria, parameters, basis for how you actually construct and calculate the amounts and arrangements. I have the impression that it has been difficult. It is possible that the Minister of Foreign Affairs believes that something has come closer to it after this round of negotiations than was previously the case, but that is one of the reasons why we are particularly positive that the joint comments also call on the Government to carry out an evaluation when the agreement period is over. I think that can be valuable, in part, to see if the scheme has been useful, but also generally to see if it has achieved an expected positive result in relation to the scale of the grant schemes. Finally, let me just mention a small matter that has something to do with this. It concerns the training authorisation of students from Romania and Bulgaria. Since these negotiations have taken longer than expected and all EU/EEA countries will have to finalise the agreement, it will hardly come into force before a good deal is done in the autumn. This has been understood to lead to problems for a few Romanian and Bulgarian citizens who have volunteered to take up education in Norway, for example. in secondary schools. UDI may be per currently do not discriminate between applications by Romanian and Bulgarian nationals as there is no formal new legal basis before the agreement is concluded. This means that some will lose one year of education, despite the fact that the agreement after all sun brands will be in port a few months after school start in the fall. The right-wing group by the parliamentary leader has therefore sent a letter to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion asking for an assessment of the feasibility of giving an instruction to enable Romanian and Bulgarian citizens to obtain a residence permit for education, in line with the rights they will receive as EEA members when the other countries’ proceedings are completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e67	The negotiations conducted by the Government with the EU are of major political and economic importance for maritime food and coastal communities. We know that although the main issue in the negotiations was the financial arrangements, much of the problem in the negotiations is related to compensation for lost free trade. Through bilateral agreements, Norway has had full duty and quota-free market access for, inter alia: seafood products for Bulgaria and Romania. At the same time, the EU's unfair anti-dumping duties and obstacles to Norwegian seafood in the internal market have limited Norwegian exports of these goods. The last problem has not been solved. However, Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement has not been tolerated for salmon, mackerel, herring, shrimp, pectinidae and marine crustaceans. We have now changed this. I would like to take the opportunity to praise the line that the Government has held in these important negotiations. The Storing Proposition clearly shows that the Government has also pursued an active European policy in this area. Despite the fact that the EU has not wanted to link the financial contribution and the compensation negotiations, the Government has stood by it and it has worked. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) regulatory framework guarantees that third countries will not suffer worse from the accession of new countries to a regional trade agreement. This means that the EU had to provide compensation to Norway in the form of improved market access to the Union when Romania and Bulgaria were integrated into the internal market and a line was set across Norway’s free trade agreement with these countries. The EU was obliged to negotiate with Norway to compensate for lost market access — both today’s access and the future. We have been compensated in the form of improved and more tidy market access to the entire EU internal market for important seafood products. This was worth both suspending the EEA Agreement in the name of the EU in the fight and accepting financial support at the level that we finally accepted. For the centre party, it was essential that we secure sustainable solutions for lost market access for seafood, not least because there were a number of unresolved issues for Norwegian fishing industry in connection with the last enlargement. For the industry, direct compensation in the form of an increase in duty-free allowances is high – 17 900 tonnes, including 25 pst. increase for shrimps. Unfortunately, it only applies until 2009. But it's a good start. Similarly, 2004 herring and mackerel quotas were linked to ‘industrial processing’, which prevented traders who themselves do not process the fish. It causes more bureaucracy and constitutes a technical barrier to trade. This has now been removed. The EU has committed itself to harmonising the rules of origin for trade in fish between the EU and Norway, as stated above. the strict rules of the 1973 Letter of Fisheries. The parties have now committed themselves to meeting to negotiate on this before the end of 2007. A comment at the end of this part of the contribution: import duties on processed products of herring and mackerel have made it impossible to invest in the EU as a market for Norwegian operators in practice. Finished products have met customs duties of 20-25 pst. The new duty-free quotas will be of great help to a weakened processing industry. It has been of great importance for us that we have received letters from the industry that acknowledge the work done in the Government. We have followed this work closely, and it has borne fruits. But at the same time let me take a side view of another part of the same problem. I would like to say on behalf of the Central Party that we welcome the enlargement of the European Union and the EEA with Romania and Bulgaria when these countries wanted it. These are poor countries in Europe, and we see it as important that we contribute to reducing the economic differences between these countries and the rest of the EU. During the negotiations, the media has focused on the temporary suspension of EU EEA negotiations due to Norway’s lack of willingness to pay support to the new Member States. In the media, the impression has been that there has been an unwillingness — even greed — on the part of Norway to help finance the development of the new and financially poor countries that have now joined the EU. This is not true. The EU has chosen to call its financial contribution a membership fee. This has helped to obscure the second part of the negotiations, which my party trap Lars Peder Breck brought up in his post at Odelstinget. Information we have received from various Norwegian actors, including the World Natural Fund, which has worked actively in Eastern Europe, gave the impression that funding schemes through the European Commission were ineffective and partly contrary to the new EU environmental requirements. Therefore, the Centre Party is very pleased that almost half of the funding goes through bilateral arrangements, focusing on the environment and sustainable certification schemes, and that this funding scheme is managed from Norway. The center part is also satisfied with that up to 90 pst. of the bilateral support may be directed by non-governmental organisations and the social partners. This is important for the Center Party. We look forward and hope that Norwegian national actors will contribute to the revitalisation of agricultural districts, ensuring traditional knowledge and long-term environmental planning as an important element of such cooperation. Finally, the centre party is also pleased that the financial instruments have met with demands for governance, audit and increased control of the funds. We therefore hope that we will be able to obtain a basis of comparison between the aid paid through the European Commission and the bilateral arrangements and that we will get the most development of Romania and Bulgaria for the contributions that Norway will make.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e99	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 The President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. [[See page 3548]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e130	Since its inception, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has evolved into an important player in areas ranging from arms control to anti-terrorism measures, democratic development, human rights and the situation of national minorities. The OSCE is today the only security organisation in which all European countries, including Russia and the countries of the Caucasus, countries of Central Asia, the United States and Canada participate equally. The organisation plays an active role in the development of democracy, particularly in those countries undergoing conversion processes in Central Asia and the Caucasus. In a Europe that has undergone major changes, the OSCE has demonstrated the ability to adapt to the major changes in security policy architecture. The organisation has a special responsibility to contribute to the development of democracy in the participating countries, including: to prevent destabilising, internal and regional conflicts. It is therefore essential that the Member States respect their obligations. An important part of the organisation's work is to maintain democratic standards in the participating countries, by taking a special responsibility in relation to elections and election observations. This is carried out both through the Parliamentary Assembly and through the ODIHR. However, a difficult situation has developed between these related to election observations, which should be addressed by the Norwegian side in order to ensure calmness and clarity. Internal disagreements must not get in the way of important democratic promotion. The Foreign Affairs Committee is pleased that the Government will continue and strengthen its efforts for the reform of the security sector with a focus on the police and justice sector. Strengthening efforts to combat corruption and organised crime is essential for building well-functioning legal states. The Norwegian side has assumed special responsibility for this through extensive international involvement of the Norwegian police and other actors in the justice sector. It is important that all participating countries feel ownership of the organisation and work for its values and standards. Kazakhstan has now launched its presidential candidacy in the OSCE in 2009. A unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee agrees with the Government's position on the matter and will support Kazakhstan's candidacy, provided that, on the part of Kazakhstan, there is a willingness to carry out political and democratic reforms with support for the OSCE's standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e149	On 19 December last year, the European Parliament adopted a request to the Government to increase the resources of the opposition and civil society in Belarus, requesting the development of a broad strategy for democratic support for civil society and the opposition in that country, see Decision No 316 for 2006-2007. I refer here to the Committee on Foreign Affairs' position on proposals from the representatives of Solberg, Vallersnes and Wohnung, i.e. Deep. S. No 44 for 2006-2007 and Document No 8:104 for 2005-2006. In my view, it is relevant to present the Government’s response to this request today during the examination of the positions of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the monitoring of Norway’s work in the OSCE and the participation of the Council of Europe in 2006 — that is, it is the case. 3 and 4, as announced by the President, and no. 7 and 8 on today's file map. The government shares Storting’s concern about developments in Belarus. We're dealing here with an authoritarian government, where democratic rights and fundamental human rights are systematically set aside. This constitutes a European exception, and we regret this situation. Given the difficulties in achieving democracy support in the country, regional approaches include: The Council of Europe and the OSCE of great value. The other European countries are united in these two major organisations to exert pressure and pressure on the regime. It is high time that the inhabitants of Belarus were given the same opportunities and rights as other citizens of Europe. The government is concerned that Norway is taking its share of the responsibility to contribute to this. We want to strengthen contact and cooperation with the democratic forces and currents that we know exist in Belarus. As part of the process of systematising our efforts, we are in the process of completing a new integrated strategy with objectives and actions. Based on my impression from previous discussions in this Chamber, I am pleased that there seems to be broad parliamentary support for such an approach. Let me give a brief assessment of the situation in Belarus before I go into the strategy. With regard to the situation of the current regime, it is my opinion that the power position of President Lukashenka is under strong pressure. This is mainly due to the increase in customs duties and prices on energy introduced by Russia at the turn of the year. This has resulted in a dramatic cut in Belarus’s important revenues from further oil exports — yes, about 20 pst. revenue of the State may lapse. This could lead to a lower standard of living for broad groups of the population — with increasing dissatisfaction. At the same time, we see that the authoritarian board is likely to continue – at least in the short term. The current rulers will hardly choose a course that could threaten their own positions. Despite this discouraging picture, I still think we have a window of opportunity to develop contacts with the civil society, administration and business of Belarus. There will be small steps here, but small steps that will provide the basis for strengthened democratic development in the longer term. So what am I building this on? Civil society in Belarus has been strengthened in recent years due to increased travel activity and increased contacts with the rest of the world. We also learn that small and medium-sized enterprises in the country have been able to strengthen their position despite difficult framework conditions. The same applies to parts of the public sector, where authorities at different levels are increasingly engaged in contacts and cooperation with European countries. In addition, we see clear signs that the population wants democratic and economic reforms, and at the same time we see that, after a long period of division, the movement of democracy has now gathered in the United Democratic Forces – UDF – where four of the main political opposition parties participate. From the Norwegian side, we want to actively support this development. The government has therefore, as mentioned, developed a strategy for our approach to Belarus. This will be completed and available on the Government's web pages in a short time. One concrete action will be to invite the leaders of the UDF to Norway during the year, thus developing contacts with the democratic forces. At the same time, our critical attitude towards the Belarusian authorities will remain unchanged. Norway will continue to be associated with the EU and other countries in the call for positive internal development in Belarus. Normalisation of our relationship with the country depends on a fundamental democratic transformation. Until that happens, we will continue the entry ban and freeze funds for a number of authorities, in line with the actions taken by the EU. We will also continue to address critical issues with the national authorities, both in the UN and in regional organisations such as the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the Nordic Council and NATO. We recently criticised the lack of freedom of assembly in the country at the ILO session in Geneva on 8 June this year. In the strategy, the government highlights the importance of strengthening cooperation with other countries on the overall approach to Belarus. As part of this, we would also urge the Russian authorities to contribute to democratic development in the country. I would like to highlight in particular that we are starting closer cooperation with Sweden when our neighbours now open the embassy in Minsk. In such international circumstances, it is rational and right to seek a form of ‘sharing’, and we clearly see that Sweden has a positive and leading role among European countries in supporting the development of democracy in Belarus. In addition, we will increase and systematize support for democracy and human rights projects in the country. It is essential to support civil society. This support will be channelled mainly through Norwegian and international non-governmental organisations, in joint projects with other countries, under the UN Development Programme – UNDP – Council of Europe, OSCE and the Nordic Council of Ministers. People need better access to independent information, and we need to help create independent meeting places. At the same time, we will continue to support human rights defenders and protect victims of persecution. The Norwegian Health Committee is our main partner for democracy promotion within Belarus. The Helsinki Committee has developed a wide network of contacts both in Minsk and in the regions and cooperates with a wide range of non-governmental organisations, press and journalist organisations. The Committee, together with Belarusian actors, offers legal and practical assistance, support for regional newspapers and alternative cultural offers. Norway is not alone in supporting its civil society, but the feedback we receive suggests that our efforts are likely to reach more organisations in grassroots areas outside the capital city of Minsk. The restrictions imposed by the Belarusian authorities on the opposition and the country’s non-governmental organisations also make it necessary to support white-and-white-smokers in exile in neighbouring countries. I have faith here in supporting young environments. We want to step up support for the Belarusian University of exile in Vilnius – called European Humanities University – because here we are talking about supporting tomorrow's leaders in Belarus. As part of the strategy, the Government will encourage institutions such as: The Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, the Swedish Defence Research Institute and the Institute for Peace Research to develop projects and contacts between research and education institutions in Norway and Belarus – to strengthen our own competence in the country. At the same time as all these measures, in the view of the Government, it is also important to strengthen contacts with Belarusian authorities, in the form of more regular contacts at the level of office. Similarly, we will consider providing lower-level public officials with participation in training programmes in Norway. This is a form of cooperation with which we have good experience in other contexts. I also think there is room to consider business cooperation within, for example. in the field of energy and the environment. Increased efforts towards Belarus must be accompanied by increased budgetary resources. I am pleased that from last year to year we have increased the financial envelope from 4 million. NOK to SEK 9 million. SEK, against a message of 1 million. kr in 2005. This effort will be stepped up further next year – according to our plan. Finally, I would like to stress that the Government sees a clear added value in the contacts of Norwegian political parties and parliamentarians with Belarusian politicians at different levels. These contacts contribute to a positive development in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e221	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 5 and 6 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See page 3548]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e250	In fact, two issues have been identified in NATO and, in particular, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in 2006: the preparation and implementation of the Riga Summit and the operation in Afghanistan. If I were to draw something specific from the Riga meeting, it would have to be for the Balkans to take a serious part in Euro-Atlantic cooperation. Albania, Croatia and Macedonia got all three MAP status and are thus in NATO's waiting room. Not all three are necessarily coming anymore in 2008. It depends on both political, economic and military reforms, as well as the fact that, in Croatia in particular, there is a rather lukewarm mood in the population associated with future NATO membership. Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia-Herzegovina were included in the Partnership for the Peace Programme at the same summit, not least thanks to a very active and constructive work carried out by, among others. Norwegian and Italian pages. Norway’s embassy in Belgrade has also been NATO’s contact embassy for some time, now replaced by Italy. Norway has also contributed financially to the restructuring of Serbia’s armed forces, and that is why it is in this context to pay tribute to individuals who have contributed heavily — among others. Kai Eide and Haakon Blankenborg, for the enormous work they have done, and the government representatives who participated in Riga. In addition, Norway has now taken over the contact embassy in Sarajevo. The UN mandated ISAF operation was extended in 2006 to cover the whole country, and now counts approximately. 35,000 pieces. In Riga, the Heads of State or Government committed themselves to providing adequate strengths and flexibility. But equally important is the increasing focus on improving the balance between civil and military efforts. It is important that NATO succeeds in Afghanistan, but it will also depend on the promises made in 2002 after the Taliban was chased out of Kabul and called to the peace conference on the future of Afghanistan. Afghanistan needs resources for infrastructure, for well-being, for building public administration, for police and justice, and for improving the daily lives of women. The government's authority needs to be strengthened and assistance better coordinated. At the same time, the presence of the ISAF team is absolutely necessary to ensure safety and stability. During the period, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly has also been concerned with Afghanistan – which I expect Per Ove Width to come closer to – both to get the Member States to deal with the necessary forces and to press for more development assistance. Interestingly, the NATO Response Force in 2006 was actually deployed in humanitarian aid organisations both after Hurricane Katrina in the United States and after the earthquake disaster in Pakistan. Norway contributed 10 million. kr for the financing of air transport. So I just want to mention that I think it is important – and that is also the message – that Norway is working to increase the focus on nuclear disarmament work in NATO. In addition, the Committee has noted that in 2006 Norway was critical of the development of an allied territorial missile defence. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly is committed to most of the areas covered by the Atlantic Pact and also plays an important role because of the decisions taken by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, of course going to NATO, to the Council of NATO and to the governments of NATO. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly also has a counterpart to the NATO-Russian Council in its own Russia committee. However, I must be allowed to say that while practical cooperation in the NATO-Russia Council is working well, enough efforts are being made by the Parliamentary Assembly to find the relationship, or the kind of relationship, to its Russian colleagues. Then there's one thing that we've found reason to write in the setting. It is that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is extremely humane, both in terms of the proportion of the total delegates and associated members, and – perhaps even more – in terms, in terms of management and committees. Finally, before Per Ove Wideth receives the floor as Head of Delegation, I would like to add that the Norwegian delegation is active in the sessions and in committees and subcommittees. Let me also mention that Jan Petersen in the period was elected as one of the vice presidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e278	The NATO Parliamentary Assembly is an international organisation for parliamentarians from the 26 Member States of NATO. In addition, 13 associated countries and observers from additional countries and international organisations participate. There has been a very active participation in the Parliamentary Assembly from the Storting delegation in all committees and plenary sessions. It is therefore positive that three representatives were appointed to the assembly. As Marit Nybakk mentioned, Jan Petersen has been elected as Vice President of the Assembly, Jan Arild Ellingsen as Vice-Chairman of one of the subcommittees and Sverre Myrli as rapporteur for reports on the MAP countries. Norway continued to welcome the Scientific and Technology Committee on visits, which was successfully carried out last week. The delegation is also planning the spring session of the Assembly to take place in Oslo in 2009. Afghanistan was consistently high on the agenda in many of its meetings, especially during the autumn session in Quebec, the balance sheet contributions from various NATO countries were debated. The Canadians were particularly clear that they would not continue to contribute as strongly with strengths without others coming on the track accordingly. However, at least the same emphasis was placed on the importance of civil action. The situation in the Balkans remains subject to considerable attention both in reports and in discussions. This was the case with the so-called MAP countries, the next in line for NATO membership: Croatia, Albania and Macedonia. But the situation in Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and, not least, Kosovo is also highly debated. A third region that has been given a lot of space is the Black Sea region with the countries of Georgia and Ukraine and, in part, Belarus. Some believe that these dominate disproportionately. If any conclusion is to be drawn with regard to the possible future Member States of Ukraine and Georgia, it must be that there is a very long way to go. The relationship with Russia is also marked by the discussion with the Black Sea countries. Good cooperation with Russia remains to be found both in plenary sessions and in the NATO Russia Committee. The emphasis is on knowledge and dialogue with the Mediterranean countries, and the Mediterranean Group of the Assembly has made several visits to the Middle East. The agenda also included non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear energy policy. It has been discussed whether energy security has something to do on the agenda of the Assembly, and if so how. In particular, Baltic and eastern European countries continue to focus on this. It is also disputed whether the assembly should engage as an election observer. In 2006, it was implemented under the OSCE regime in respect of Ukraine. Because this year there have been NATO PA observers at the elections in Serbia in January, and participation is being added during the autumn elections in Russia. The size delegation has attended with an observer. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly provides a good opportunity to strengthen the contact and dialogue of the Grand Duchy on defence policy issues with parliamentarians in other NATO countries, as well as partner countries and associated countries in Eastern Europe. It is therefore an important forum to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e301	What we are discussing today are the so-called transatlantic gangs. We have discussed them so far in this period and in the previous period and then, of course, with the background of the new conservatives of one of our most important allies, the United States. I would like to refer a little bit to the idea base that has doctors at the bottom of this collaboration, and also to the cooperation of other organisations, which have created many of the fundamental problems, and of course also internally the divisions that have caused doctors. I quote Robert Kagan, one of the so-called new conservatives together with, among other things. Richard Perle and Wolfowitz: ‘It is time to stop pretending that Europeans and Americans share a common view of the world, or at all, that they inhabit the same world Europe is moving away from the focus on power, while a self-sufficient world of laws, transnational negotiations and cooperation. [[...]] They enter a post-historic paradise of peace and fertility, a realization of Kant’s ‘free peace’. However, the United States remains anchored in history and exercises power in an anarchist Hobbesian world where international rules and rights are not to be trusted and where security and defence of a liberal order still depend on the possession and exercise of military power.’ This is what accounts for almost all of the problems we face, whether it be the alliance of willing or pre-emptive wars in Iraq, aggressive warfare in Afghanistan, missile shells, partly also in relation to energy and Article 5, that one wants to solve energy problems with military power, the last days' arrangements for what belongs to the Council of Europe, and secret prisons in Europe, and overflights. And we've also recently learned a new word called SACEUR. I must admit that I came into the same thoughts as: Who is he there Artium that everyone should take? I thought for a while that SACEUR was a Frenchman, but he's actually not. It is the institution in NATO that is in charge of the strength generation process. We've had some people's information both here in the Great Britain and in the people, or how the ongoing process is going, adapting questions and questions to individual countries based on what NATO believes can contribute. And then I'm going to boast of NATO. NATO has raised issues that have been reasonably balanced and adapted to what Norway might be able to contribute, and has listened to the debates that have been held in the Norwegian political environment, by not introducing proposals for strength contributions that would irritate too much. I thought maybe the most important process that's been going internally in NATO lately is the one with the civil trail. We have made it clear through, at least I thought, a foreign minister, a defence minister and, of course, also a development minister, to be very well on track internally in NATO with being in front when it comes to the civil trail. I'm proud to see Norway going in front of us to find other countries that might think of joining us on SIMIC, civil-military cooperation, to solve the Georgian knot. We can go so far as to say that there has actually come a little better health care in northern Afghanistan, and a little better schooling has come in, but we're not going to brag too much of it. But getting that balance isn't easy, it's like solving the Georgian knot. Then a draw must be brought forward to the civil, with the consciousness that the military is not the solution, but can be present to secure nation-building – it goes for NGOs and others, of course, who want to contribute to the goal of all military power, simply to be free of fear. I was impressed by the Seville meeting, which clearly said after one had been in Pakistan and helped with funds after the earthquake, that no NRF should be used. After NATO Response Force was deployed in Riga, they are to be used as lir. civil. They should not enter into anything that could be an undefined attack war at least. So there we've done a significant job, and that's just a start. I hope, of course, that the government will continue with the good work there. So over to this with rocket shields. It looks like we're in a situation where the road gets there while we go. Norway has always been against this, our sceptical about it, but then it turns out that we are against the name, but unconscious for in the benefit, at least in part. In the case of the direct US, the previous government in Norway had a repurchase agreement with a Norwegian company that built a chassis for a radar. No entry was made in Norway, so Norwegian workers did not benefit from the repurchase regime. But we became involved in this without the Stortinget being informed, it has come out in Bergen's Official Journal, and even some of the government's security selections were uninformed. This might indicate that there were processes here that weren't good enough. Now this is a matter for consideration in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, so this is what we get when that time comes. Then there's something we're actually for, but we've debated it so much, but we're allowing money for it, right in a bag post -- we should probably arrange it for the future to figure out what these 75 million are. kr goes to, easily to so-called troop defense. Then comes the new news that our most important ally, the United States, wants to cooperate with the so-called new Europe, or the so-called more willing Europe – two countries there, the Czech Republic and Poland – about rockets and shields, that is, without following the principle. I'm surprised that I, as SVs and actually NATO opponents, are going to be here and have to make NATO better and refer to the time it was actually advice in NATO. NATO was a consultative organisation, they actually made a lot of rounds, and did not just make one-sided contact with individual countries and then press through a policy that will at least need a little longer time both to grow and to have a chance of being signed, which I don't think is realistic when we look at what all the experts in the field are saying clearly and clearly: this leads to upgrading, a new spiral, with which no one is lit, when we know that the world is in such a situation that the areas one should dump billions of economic resources on, of course other resources too, are climate and energy and not a new arms race. Then, if this happens, we can, of course, hope and believe that the Czech Republic and Poland do not agree to this – we can come into the situation that parts of Europe will be covered by a rocket shield. Of course, then, the question arises: are we going to have such a situation that Europe is going to be unevenly covered? We know that there are forces in NATO that speak for us to take the so-called protection of the troops we have, and put it on, and we will be able to get a coverage of the whole of Europe – in my opinion, again with upgrading as the really great pursuit. We discussed about a week since the European Union, with regionalisation, and we can see whether there is also some form of regionalisation in NATO. It probably does, and there I would not least commend the Government for having reached a new Nordic defence agreement with concreteisation through the agreement signed with Sweden, cooperation in artillery. We all know about this with Norwegian-Icelandic, Danish-Icelandic cooperation. Here you will find a bone to stand on, in a region within NATO, in a region of Europe. There's a lot of exciting things going on here. This does not in any way have to conflict with what we have done before, but it shows that the security needs of the different regions could be different, and there is nothing in the way that could lead to more cooperation – can we get our homies together and get something out of it effectively? For us in Norway, of course, this is clearly behind us with the north, energy and environment there as an incentive to take, and not least to dare to take, new initiatives. We know that in defence cooperation there is a huge amount of public resources to save. SV has previously suggested that we work together on something as simple as a field of fire. We would have saved $3 billion on it. We're not going to reopen an old defence debate here, but we know that cooperation can create both economic benefits and, of course, link new ties to new challenges, and we will not least go with other countries and get those interested in the same issues as we are. We also have to be able to do that even if we're a member of the NATO community. We know that this can also be a sign that the Russia-NATO Council and also what is going on in the NATO PA Assembly can be even better. If we want to do that, maybe others will want to worry about it. Finally, I would like to say two words about Russia. I agree with those who have said not to put too much emphasis on Russian arguments in relation to rocket shields. But we have a border with Russia, we have had a long and close relationship with Russia. We should at least listen to what they have to say, and we should contribute so that the debate that has taken place is dampened as much as possible. We do that by taking these things up when the different ministers are at the different meetings, not least within the NATO framework. I feel reasonably sure that our government councils will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e328	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very thorough account of the two cases taken together, and the Senter party supports the additional comments made by the rapporteur. But when I have asked for the floor, it's because I want to state that there's a pretty strong concern in the Central Party in one field, and it's the US plan to build a rocket shield on European soil. I am pleased that the Committee has unanimously endorsed the following comment: ‘The Committee has also noted that NATO is working on a missile defence system within the alliance other than the US missile defence planned to be deployed in the Czech Republic and Poland.The Committee notes that Norway was critical of the development of an allied territorial missile defence in 2006 and there is considerable uncertainty about the further follow-up of a territorial missile defence in NATO’. There has recently been a strong focus in the media on US missile defence plans in Europe. The scepticism of our neighbor in the east, Russia, has been great. Fortunately, at the G8 meeting, new signals from Russia about possible cooperation on such defence emerged. I see with excitement to what the outcome of this might be. I hope we can keep that line that we're sceptical waiting for a missile defense system. The Soria Moria Declaration is clear and clear that: ‘Norway shall work to scrape today’s rocket defence plans and take the initiative to increase the focus on early warning and conflict prevention’. This must be Norway’s clear and clear line of time to come. Nevertheless, we should follow closely the developments between Russia and the United States. We have to follow the parties' input. We have to look at the internal discussions that are. The Central Party absolutely does not want us to move into a situation where we get a new armament spiral between the United States and Russia, or between other parts of the world. Cold war should be a phase, and also the upgrading that we have seen after World War II. That is why I hope that in the time to come we can work on – according to the following priority: First, we need to work hard and intensively with the prevention of conflicts. Dialogue is a better solution than direct confrontation. If we do not succeed, we must continue to work on early warning measures – and there may be many aspects in that chain. And last, like the absolute last resort, you have to look at the construction of a missile defense. I hope that such a line can be joined and followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e355	Just a brief comment. I think there is a broad and important consensus on the main track in this last question, which has now been presented in the last two posts. We are concerned about the trend here – considering new weapon systems and upgrading. As the representative Jacobsen said, that's not what the world needs. And you can elaborate on that and go into detail. I'm not going to do it here. But I think there's a broad consensus on that, and the Soria Moria statement has a clear wording on this that the Government is basing on. At the same time, Norway has to try to position itself here, so that we are in intervention with the processes that are in NATO, which are among the allies. It is an important principle for NATO that is that security is indivisible, that is, that the country of NATO should have the same security and that it should be solidarity. We are working on the basis of the Riga Summit's decision to continue working in NATO to identify the security threats you face, to find out what the best answers are to those threats. That's the track we're following, and we're trying to position ourselves so that we have maximum influence along that track. Then we must also note what is the debate in other countries, what is the attitude that our NATO allies take, and how this development goes on. But the most important thing for us in this context is to stick to the debates that are taking place in NATO. Norway does not stand alone, but has more people who share our views.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e366	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6. The President will now propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 7 and 8 are dealt with as a whole – and it is deemed to be adopted. [[See page 3548]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e395	I would like to begin by stressing the importance of the Council of Europe in creating dialogue and cooperation for democratic development throughout Europe, built on fundamental values such as human rights and the principles of the rule of law. The Council of Europe has special competence in human rights, democratisation, local democracy and state law, and can provide both advice and guidance as well as requirements for Member States in these areas. The Foreign Affairs Committee agrees with the Government that the Council of Europe should expand and improve its competences in these areas and not spread too widely to other areas. Cooperation with other organisations must be strengthened while the Council of Europe concentrates its efforts on the organisation's competence and special advantage. I cannot avoid getting into the difficult situation of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. By the end of 2006, there were nearly 90 000 cases pending before the Court, an increase of 12 pst. from the previous year. It is therefore very important that Protocol 14 enters into force as soon as possible. This will allow for much more effective procedures in dealing with cases, which will allow the Court to deal with an estimated 25 pst. more things than today. The Court of Justice is faced with major challenges and the reforms set out in Protocol 14 are necessary to improve both working conditions and the effectiveness of the Court of Justice. The problem is that Russia as the only Member State has not yet ratified the protocol, which means that it is all about to stop. The situation is exacerbated day by day and will now also have consequences for the appointment of judges in the Court of Justice. On 20 December 2006, the Russian Duma rejected by 137 votes to 27, the proposal of President Putin to ratify the Protocol. Many attempts have been made to influence the Russians to ratify the protocol, which was ready for signature as early as May 2004. I am aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs focused on this during the Ministerial meeting in Strasbourg in May 2006. The Foreign Affairs Committee also took this up in meetings with the Russian Duma Foreign Committee in January this year. I attended a meeting of the Council of Europe 'Comittee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights' in Paris last Friday, where this was once again the subject. This time we had invited representatives from the legal committee of the Russian Dumas to talks on Protocol 14. It would be to go too far to quote these conversations here, but I think these were held in a good and positive tone, and it seemed that we got an understanding of our views with our Russian colleagues. I'm probably a bit more optimistic after this meeting, but I still think we have a piece left to go before we see a ratification from the Russian side. I would therefore like to point out that a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee stresses that ‘a full focus must be placed on all levels in order to influence our neighbouring country to carry out rapid ratification of the Protocol’. I therefore assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also address this in future discussions with the Russian authorities. Finally, I would like to stress that the strengthening of the Court of Justice is economic as shown by the wording of case No. 8, must not significantly weaken the other activities of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e428	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8. [[See page 3549]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e444	I just want to add a few comments to the matter. The Foreign Affairs Committee has now, on a few occasions, focused on the Western Union and its function. It is linked to the fact that, unlike, for example, the Western Union: The NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which we debated here a little while ago, does not have a ministerial level to address. That doesn't mean you don't have interesting and exciting debates in the Western Union, which I'm well-known to have. What I want to highlight and think was very positive, and as we have also included in the comments from the committee, it is the Norwegian delegation that has chosen to do its work. They have actively gone in and put the spotlight on issues that are important to us, not least in relation to the northern regions. I am also aware that the Norwegian delegation took the initiative to visit the Western Union on Svalbard, which is a good use of our resources and forces in this assembly. It is a very constructive contribution, but we are, on the part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, a little uncertain about the future of the Assembly. After all, once we have gone through the OSCE, the Council of Europe and NATO, there is no shortage of debate venues. International parliamentary assemblies are several of them, and we will see who has the right to life in the future, who we should give priority to. But once we're there, we think it's great that the Norwegian delegation has so strongly focused on important issues for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e455	As indicated in the statement, the existence and importance of the VEU Assembly have been discussed in many contexts. The common European security and defence policy as well as military operational responsibilities have been transferred to the EU and, in the context of the VEU, one is left with an ambassador-level advice on the government side. After all, it may be justified to discuss whether to maintain the VEU Parliamentary Assembly. I have very positive experience with our participation in the WEU so far, with regard to both participation in the technological committee and not least in the two annual parliamentary meetings in Paris. Very relevant defence and security policy issues are being discussed, and in particular from the British point of view, it has been stressed several times that only the WEU has the formal basis for discussing the broad security and defence policy in Europe – this as long as the EU Member State has rejected the draft common basic law. The Parliamentary Assembly in Paris last December took the initiative of the Norwegian delegation to produce its own report on the northern regions. This seemed to the delegation to be a natural follow-up to the government's active north-eastern policy. Our delegation leader, Odd Einar Dørum, was elected co-rapporteur in this important report for us. The report was produced at the same time as the UN Climate Change Report, which made the report more relevant to the VEU Parliamentary Assembly. We had a very successful seminar on the North Region problem at Svalbard in May and an equally successful presentation of the report now in June. The issues in the report were of great interest. There were both energy and security issues and not least issues related to climate change in the north. The awareness of climate issues is great across Europe, but the knowledge of what we see of changes in the north, and the consequences for the rest of the world do not have much attention. This was also expressed by many seminar participants, both inside and outside the seminar room. I believe that cooperation in the VEU is part of and enhances the understanding of the Northern Region policy among European parliamentarians. I think that's very positive at a time when our government has a lot of focus on the area. We last saw in the media yesterday and today that our Minister for Foreign Affairs has visited Finnmark together with a large Swedish delegation to increase the Swedish interest in the area. My impression through the VEU Collections is that the awareness of the area is not particularly high in the European context, neither in terms of energy, safety or climate issues. This was also reflected when we first presented the proposal for a separate report on the northern regions of the VEU. What was the interest of European parliamentarians up there in the high north when there were so great security challenges south of Europe? I have benefited greatly from my participation in the VEU context, and I think we should use all the arenas we have for increased understanding of our areas, while also having a great need for debate and discussions with our European parliamentary colleagues on important issues of defence and security policy. But it requires that we are also willing to participate in and contribute to debate in the various assemblies. Without it, of course, we don't want any benefit from participation. Then Stortinget will have to assess whether this is an arena that is important for us to participate in, whether it is still maintained as a body within the EU parliamentary system. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to our Head of Delegation for the work done on and presentation of the report on the northern regions, and also to Secretary of State Liv Monica Stubholt, who made a great impression on the Paris Assembly at the beginning of June when she spoke about our northern regions and answered questions from parliamentarians from all over Europe. To the extent that the assembly can be enthusiastic, we experienced in the Norwegian delegation that this was what happened during Stubholt's articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e472	I have found it right as the delegation leader to take the word. When the Storting evaluates participation in organs, you get to do it the way you do it when you get that far. I think it is right to say, in view of the politicians we meet in the context of the Western Union, that it is not clear what will be the future of a new constitution for the European Union. Nor is it clear what is going to happen, in the sense that when it comes to defence issues related to the efforts of national parliaments, the Assembly, which is characterised by enthusiastic supporters of the European Union, believes that no answer has been given. I think it's wise to observe that evolution. We, who have been sent there as observers, have jointly decided that we should promote what the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen was into, namely the broad, Norwegian, national need and interest for our northern regions, almost wherever we are, to be seen and understood. On that basis, we have, in a good cross-political spirit, promoted this through the political groups that exist. I have some reflections to get into that context. The reflections are not only about the VEU, they are also about my previous situation as a representative of Norway as a State Council. It is not without saying that the situation in Europe north of Copenhagen is well understood. However, if you first raise the debate, especially in the way that others have done — among others. The government has had a Nordic Prime Minister's meeting in New Ålesund, and our Minister for Foreign Affairs has, for example, recommended people to travel there on their visit to Washington – it gives rise to a significant commitment. At the same time, I think we're going to be so sober that we see that there's a need to do this in many places. Our contribution has been to do this where we are. We have experienced, as Gerd Janne Kristoffersen's representative pointed out, that this led to a broad disintegration from the ten countries of origin of the Brussels Treaty, the original Western Union, but also from others. In close interaction with U.D. State Secretary Liv Monica Stubholt, we have experienced that it is fully possible to bring a debate into a broad, international forum. I must also stress that in the case of the report, which is in practice made by a Spanish politician and myself, it may be the first time that security policy has been defined based on a climate policy analysis. It is not unreasonable to do so in the north – when you know that the ice melts faster than before, when you know that it will be open seas, and when you like. knows that in many ways there can be a situation in the north-east that can provide both opportunities and challenges. I have learned through the hard school of life that in a European context, it is not given that Norway should be seen for what we are actually doing, namely that we are a reliable supplier of important energy resources to the European continent. That it's being seen and accepted, I think it's an independent and important date for our country to be registered for, not because of anything but that we're actually doing it. That's part of the tough, trusting work we're going to do. Working on such an important theme for our country, experiencing that it is possible to mobilise commitment, and experiencing that that commitment again can lead to a broad debate, which I believe at least increases the involvement and curiosity of the northern regions as such, is a positive experience. I think it's very important for all delegations. I know it's also done in other contexts. I often tend from this pulpit to quote Vømmöl Spellmannslag. They've got a favorite guy, "It's time to get to the sea." They also say that each of us don't weigh that much, but together we weigh a lot of tons. It is probably also the VEU delegation’s conclusion that it is ‘it’s time to get tired of it’, but if you go together you can get it done. When you do it together, you can also make sure that you increase your awareness of the vitally important northern regions. Norway needs many friends in that context, and I think we have made a contribution to allowing more people to become friends and understand our position, which is well linked to the policy that I think the Government has promoted in an excellent way in many other contexts – which is not the subject of debate today, but which it is natural to comment. I spoke in this way, because after the Annual Report came, what was actually announced was done with the results we hoped for, but we were not sure that we would get there at all. I think it is nice to be able to inform the Storting in such a plenary meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e491	Let me first underline what others have also said, that the Norwegian representatives sitting in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union are doing a good job, plus that it is positive in itself with parliamentary assemblies. That means meeting parliamentarians from other countries. There are exchanges of views and opinions, and perhaps there are cases to be brought to the attention of parliamentarians from those countries. Nevertheless, in examining the annual reports of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union, both during this period and during the previous period, the Foreign Affairs Committee has put a question mark into the position and moved on one step: should we not go through all the parliamentary assemblies in which the Stortinget sits, and see which we should continue to be in? Not only that: perhaps there are parliamentary assemblies that we do not attend, and which are much more relevant? We have today, among other things: a parliamentary assembly in the World Bank. In view of the aid budget we have, it may be that when it comes to assessing resources for foreign travel and delegations, it is one of the parliamentary assemblies we should give priority to. With regard to the Western Union, they had their last ministerial meeting in November 2000 — well over six and a half years ago. Most tasks were transferred to the EU. It is such that the Parliamentary Assembly itself becomes a satellite that hovers a little by itself. We may well continue to participate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union. We have not yet taken a decision on that, and we are not taking a decision on that today. It may also be abandoned in the context of the further development of the ESDP. It remains to be seen. In any case, it is the case that the presidency dealt with the suspension from last year on the basis of an enquiry by the administration, twice, namely 15 June and 16 November. On 16 November, the Presidency concluded that we should go through the various delegations we are taking part in on the basis of the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee last year, i.e. a year ago, on participation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union, and then, of course, today's representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly must also contribute their own. I would like to draw your attention to the implicit nature of the decisions that have been taken and the discussions that we have had, to the effect that if we leave the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union, we will only be able to do so from the next period. Moreover, Norway does not have the right to vote in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union. We are associated members, unlike, for example. NATO, the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e502	I believe that the VEU has been vitalised after France and the Netherlands refused a new constitution. It has led to much greater activity and a greater belief that one can become something. I have been in the VEU from 1997 to 2001 and now in this period. I don't think it's wise to discuss withdrawing Norway as long as the activity of the other states is present. Because unlike the EU, there are several countries that want to participate in such forums as this, just to contribute to the so-called European Community. What is my experience is that Norway, through the Dørum-led delegation, has taken up issues that are of great interest to politicians in Europe in general, to the other associated members and to the other non-voting members on whom Nybakk was involved. You can draw your attention to the north. Just the same way our government has done it on the delegation trip that one had these days up there, attached to the Swedish government and business, has a bite to it, through, among other things. The WEU delegation's work, focusing attention on the north. The focus in Europe is undoubtedly not there. This can help us by participating in different delegations. That's my starting point. In the VEU, a great deal of defence and security policy is being discussed, including: rocket defence. Then a voice will be given to people other than those who are members of NATO. This gives a voice to those who like to feel more threatened than others by such systems, because several countries participate. Then one also gets a voice to people who are busy with what has happened to the CIA planes, which one claims have been in Norway, as the Council of Europe has discussed, and who have been asked questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. What kind of role have we had in this? Such things discuss one freely when one is not bound by, for example, an organisation such as NATO or an organisation such as the EU. Undoubtedly, to repeat myself, the politicians in the VEU believe that the influence of this body can now increase because of the Constitutional Council in France and the Netherlands. I want to challenge the Foreign Minister a little, since he has signed up, about what has been a media issue in Norway, and which has been discussed in Europe. This applies to these flies, such as: my local, Stavanger Aftenblad, has written a lot about the role of Norway in this, and whether he could say some words. I know he's going to come back to it in a letter, but there's a question that not least the government has been aware of, what role Norway has played. I see that Bjørn Tore Godal, former Minister of Defense, says that this has not been the case with that government. Then there must be someone else. Does he realize that one should go into what has actually happened, and what role Norway might have played in that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e520	Let me say to the last question that there is my answer that it has been before, that we do not know that it has taken place the type of transport over Norwegian soil. We believe that we have given complementary answers to that. We note that this question is still being examined, among other things. in the Council of Europe. A question has been asked to the Prime Minister who will be answered in depth. That's what I have to say about that matter. I will be very brief in the mention of the Western Union, the organisation that is closed, but where the parliamentarians are. What I want to do is, on the part of the Government, to give a tribute to those parliamentarians who use this body. I believe that this is a sign, is a common approach from the Norwegian political environment to the fact that, in our situation, outside the EU, which we may have different views on, and with the North and Energy Agenda, we need to use absolutely all available bodies for Norway. Then it's important that we go in with the enthusiasm and the creativity that we've heard here, with reference to Svalbard, commitment and bringing the Nordics to the agenda. This is kind of a team of Norway approaches that I think there's consensus for in this room around these questions, and I'm glad. I believe that this evolves in the right direction. It is right, as both the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen and the representative Odd Einar Dørum say, that there is an uphill ground in informing Europe about this dimension, but it is not hard to lighten the interest in it if you do it properly. As I said, I had a large Swedish delegation with me northward now earlier this week. The Swedish Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee was on the same trip only a few days earlier. So here's a broad development going on, and I think that's very positive. Then I thank you for the nice words that have been said to my Secretary of State. She can be used for a lot, such as to represent me at today's meeting in the Baltic Sea Council by foreign ministers, where I can't be because I'm here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e533	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 10 and 11 are treated as a whole. [[See page 3549]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e562	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes – together 85 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e573	They probably didn't think about oil, the first to settle in Norway when the glaciers retreated. In many ways, it's just funny that geology has created the oil on the seabed, but it's not luck, but on the contrary, the political choices that have made us today have NOK 2 000 billion on book, an amount that is going to grow in the years to come, and the goal is for it to come to both our children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and so on. for good in the years to come. It's right to discuss both the pace we're going to have on oil extraction, what kind of areas we're going to extract, and how we're going to organise the extraction, as the debate on StatoilHydro showed before the weekend. Once a high rate of extraction has been chosen, the discussion comes about how quickly we are going to phase the oil money into the economy. Therefore, we have made the rule of action that the oil is a stock resource, not something we produce, but something we pick up until the reservoirs are empty and the crane is turned on. The real return is estimated to be 4 pst. in the long term, adjusted for the economic cycle, and that is why, once the rule of action has been set, it is what we have laid down. In addition, the debate on how we best manage the money we save on the State pension fund. This is the first broad communication on the management of the State pension fund we have had, and several important steps are being taken. We are going to promote annual communications, giving us an annual opportunity to debate on the pension fund and the management of the enormous wealth in it, which is a good opportunity to engage in wide-ranging debates on all aspects of the management policy we conduct. The Social Security Fund and the role clarification that was made were also discussed before the weekend, and I refer to the debate we had around the clarifications then. In addition, we increase our share of money in the pension fund, which we invest in shares, from 40 pst. to 60 pst. We're changing our assessment of what kind of markets we invest in. In the future, we will invest in smaller companies than today by including new indices in our assessment in the reference portfolio. We turn the principle of what kind of bonds we invest in, from a list of countries we buy bonds in, to a list of countries that are excluded. We're based on the principle of overlapping consensus, which is based on what there is a broad consensus about, both in this hall and in the rest of the world. In addition, we increase the use of our ownership power by NOK 2000 billion we have, to drive the world in a better direction. We're for an active ownership and we're working on this. And we're signalling some steps we're going to take. The exclusion of companies in the Nordic region will apply to both the State pension fund – abroad and Norway, as a result of the merger of part of our Nordic government. I would like to highlight some of the points that are being discussed, and then come back to some of the proposals from the Progress Party in particular. One point is the increase to 60 pst. That we now have to invest 60 pst. by the funds of the pension fund in shares. We invest more in shares to make enough money to keep us spending more money on welfare in Norway – the return of the Pension Fund is going to be as high as the amount of money we spend, 4 pst. in the long term, adjusted for business cycle. Experience shows that we can count on making more money on shares than at other locations in the future. When we have good ethical guidelines, we think it's a good and sound way to do it. In addition, I want to get into the ethical ownership exercise. We have three ways to exercise ethical ownership. We agree to use negative filtration by not investing in, among other things. nuclear weapons, cluster bombs and landmines. We believe it is unethical to make money on this. If we're going to make money in the long term and have an eternity perspective on our administration, it's very important to focus on the ethical aspects of this. Just by driving the economy of the world in a proper and good direction, we are laying the foundation for sustainable economic development in the world context. Another way is ad hoc extraction, that we're withdrawing from companies that we think are in serious or systematic violation of human rights or serious environmental damage. One example of this is that we have withdrawn from the world's largest company, Wal-Mart, because of human rights issues. It is exciting to see how they have contacted each other again, because they believe that some of the things that led to their being excluded are no longer available. In my opinion, it clearly shows how companies care about their own reputation and take into account the way we exercise ownership. It shows that what we're doing plays a role. It is quite right that we started when we started to propose ethical ownership, in 1997, that this is something more and more administrators and funds are looking at, both in Norway and abroad. In addition to these two moments, the Christian People's Party believes that we should stay away from the tobacco industry. It is a matter that has been discussed several times in the past. We suggest that in the large evaluation we will have and, as we expect, will be submitted for treatment in the context of the 2009 pension notification, this will be further assessed. I find it exciting – not to say outright unheard – that the Progress Party in this context, and not later than a year ago, made a proposal to start investing again in land mines, class bombs and nuclear weapons. They were very specific and explicit that the way to manage the money should start again. And I notice in debates with Christian Tybring-Gjedde how he insists that through our ethical ownership exercise we have the ambition to change the world, and believe that our values are better than others based on what we invest in. Then I say yes, I mean? Working against land mines, against nuclear weapons and against class bombs is right. We have fundamental human rights and democracy, and we think it is important to work for that. Not only in our own country, but also in the rest of the world, we're going to use the opportunity we have to do it. I don't know any owners of shares or other things that don't use their ownership to develop things in the direction they think is right. I think that applies to us too. Here I notice that the only thing that matters to the Advancement Party is money – and they get to do it on their own. We also use our ownership to influence companies in the right direction. We are working for transparency in companies and for democracy, against child labour and not to ruin the work for a better climate on earth. I believe that, in addition, we should extend our ownership to combat prostitution and trafficking in human beings. It is today among the three largest illegal areas of the economy. To counter this by taking the initiative on the basis of ethical guidelines – just as the Minister of Industry has warned about Norwegian companies where we are owners, and in the same way as we have notified about the state – I believe that it is important. There will be some of the things that will be assessed in the future in relation to the ethical guidelines. In addition to this, I mentioned that we have withdrawn and used overlapping consensus in relation to debt securities. That's why we don't invest money in companies that are actually Burmese owned. An initiative has been launched by the Burma Committee, which believes it should be possible to discuss whether we should also use negative filtration for shares invested in Burma. I believe that it is natural for us to assess further. It is possible to argue that if you think it is so important to prevent money from going to the Burmese government, then shares invested there should also be excluded. But we'll have that discussion in a broader context later. There are several elements to the arguments of the Progress Party on how we should use money to invest in infrastructure funds, asset management environments and other things that need to come back to later in the debate. I think that's a good reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e620	A few days ago, the representative Heikki Holmås was my counter-debateant in the News of the Day eighteen at the NRK. The theme was the management of the State pension fund, and the representative Holmås defended with great zeal the government's exclusion of investments in, among others. The world's largest defence company, American Lockheed Martin – this is because the company operates unethical. In the same program, but a few minutes earlier, Minister of Defense Stroem- Erichsen from the same government argued hotly to provide fast, uncompetitive, transport aircraft from just the company Lockheed Martin. Why is it that this government believes that acquisitions from Lockheed Martin, which give profits to the company, are less unethical than being a shareholder in the company and profiting from the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e633	I think it's very special that a man who's been buying in the Ministry of Defence doesn't see that there's a clear difference between making money on something unethical, and buying a product to defend his own country that's developed in a completely ethical way. That's all it is to say about that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e638	One of the proposals that the Christian People's Party is promoting in the proposal for a representative and in the matter we are now discussing is that the Pension Fund should look at the possibility of investing in microcredit funds. It has basically jumped quite smoothly into his comments, so I assume that the representative Holmås initially agrees with the letter sent by the Minister of Finance on the occasion of the matter. Obviously, it's not a big fund we're talking about here. We believe that at least the possibility of doing so can be assessed, regardless of whether or not one supports it under the ordinary state budget. My question to the representative Holmås is: does Holmås see any problem in that there is an opportunity to invest in that type of fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e645	As we also write in the comments of the majority, we refer to the answers given by the Minister of Finance in the very area where she is just pointing to some of the things we do in relation to microcredit. We imagine that the State pension fund – abroad should primarily be used to invest in companies that have a certain profitability, while initially viewing the microcredit fund as an enterprise where the aim is to help people out of poverty. That is why we have said that it is more important to use some of the other instruments that we have through aid money – we know that there are several aid organisations in Norway working with microcredit investments. We also have the entire NORFUND, with which we have worked a lot, and with which we are both well aware that the Minister of Assistance has worked a lot. That's the tools we use to strengthen microcredit funding. If there is gradually a greater stake in microcredit for purely commercial reasons in the case of small companies, we will get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e652	It's interesting to follow up and see that SV now wants to increase the share. Four years ago, the stock exchange went very badly. The stock market had fallen over a long time. The Senterpartiet then proposed, and SV agreed, that one should reduce the share of the oil fund. SV wrote in the setting at that time: «These members believe that there is better time with a safer and lower return than being heavily exposed in shares.» My question is: what has happened since 2003 – apart from the fact that Oslo Børs has risen 400 pst., and that many other exchanges have increased very much – which now makes it interesting to increase the share, while four years ago it was right to reduce the share from 40 to 25 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e664	It's true, as Gjermund Hagesetter says, that we wrote what we wrote in 2003, but it's not right that we voted to reduce the share to 25 pst. What we voted for was to figure out a reduced share of 25 pst. Now, through the developments and analyses made by the Strategy Council, we have first received good indications of the security in the long-term stock markets and the level of income – with certain fluctuations, yes, but even revenues – over 15 years, with which the representative Gjermund Hagesetter is well known in relation to the documentation submitted. In addition, a share of 60 pst. there are a number of other unit trusts that you can compare to our fund. Then there's one more thing that's very important, and that the Progress Party in its time contributed, but that they're going to oppose today, namely that we've put in place ethical guidelines for the management of this fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e671	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e675	The state pension fund is the property of the nation or the people, and then we must always focus on sound governance, which benefits both today's population and future generations. Good returns are important to ensure the welfare state, but we should ensure that returns and management take place within an ethically sound framework, i.e. that we have to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. Petroleum resources can provide us with an ever better basis for developing the Norwegian welfare community by means of sensible use. The oil wealth gives us opportunities, but also entails a significant responsibility for managing the wealth in a good and correct way. Wise policy decisions have been taken that have gained international recognition in the field of petroleum activities and not least in the management of oil wealth. We have not run wild in the ‘goods store’ and put oil wealth above us, with the challenges it would have brought to the nation of Norway. In parallel, there has been a predictable withdrawal of oil resources. We have built up an oil industry, and we have had a technological development in which Norwegian companies and Norwegian suppliers have been recognised and requested worldwide. I come from Hammerfest, your political leaders and central business leaders from different parts of the world election campaigns to gain insight into the technology and innovation Statoil has made in connection with the Snow White project. Yesterday the Swedish Minister of Foreign Affairs came together with his Norwegian colleague and an army of business people. As soon as they were withdrawn, central political advisers from the United States came to visit. In the Committee's opinion, there are clear lines of view on the use and development of ethical guidelines and their necessity, between the majority, covering all the other parties, and the Progress Party. I read this as a very broad account of the work both with ethical guidelines and norms in this field. As I understand the comments of the Progress Party, it is the general rule of the Advance Party that market forces should govern freely, and then it should be the same with ethics whether it is domestic or foreign. I must say that I deeply disagree with such a view. I am pleased that, as a nation, we have ethical guidelines both in relation to the foreign part of the pension fund and the Statens Pensjonfond – Norway, and that we have a strong focus on what is happening in this area. In this way, we can exclude companies that are engaged in production or activities that pose an unacceptable risk of the fund contributing to grossly unethical activity. We need to have an ongoing debate on how we can develop the means in the ethical field, and we should periodically have evaluations, as the Government signals to see if there are any conditions that can be improved. It seems to me that the Progress Party believes that there are random subjective decisions that lead to some companies being excluded with the background of ethical guidelines and others not. The Progress Party points out that the blacklisting of Burma involves the approval of all other countries’ debt securities. On the one hand, the Progress Party is concerned that some investments are excluded on an ethical basis, while at the same time they are critical of Norway’s Bank’s investment in the State pension fund — Foreign not being cut off from investing in several countries’ government bonds. I see that the Progress Party is moving towards increasing the share of the State pension fund – Foreign from 40 to 60 p.m., and that they say in their comments that the Government's risk analysis of the share market is deficient. This surprises me, as such a change has been carefully assessed by the Bank of Norway and other trade unions. The recommendations are unambiguous — having a greater share of the funds in shares is the most profitable in the long term. The Progress Party argues that it may be more difficult to get out on time in crisis situations or extreme market situations. As I can see it, it's probably no easier to get out of bonds than of shares in extreme events. From history, we know that such extreme market situations have caused great losses in debt securities as well. I want to add that the facts are such that other large international funds have a higher share than the State pension fund – abroad. It is obvious to interpret this in such a way that these funds believe that the increase in expected returns over time due to a higher share is the value of the disadvantage in terms of major fluctuations in the fund's performance. It surprises me that the Progress Party is more reluctant to take risks than is the case in large funds internationally. In my view, it is difficult to follow the line of the Progress Party's unwillingness to take risks. There's no consistent line in this. To increase share capital investment in the State pension fund abroad, where the risk is significantly reduced by the spread of the investment across 3400 companies in 27 countries, the party appears to be too risky. To invest 10 pst. by the State pension fund – Foreigners in Norsk Hydro’s potential purchase – according to rumors – of the Canadian aluminium company Alcan, the party seems to be fine. They even said to the newspaper on 31 May 2007 that it should not be on the economy. If there's a need for more, it's just to supply. To invest 10 pst. by the fund of a company is not too risky and there is clearly no need for any further analysis, either of history or of expectations. Very carefully, this is at least 180 billion kroner. If one is still to retain the state's ownership of Hydro as today – as far as I remember it is from 43 to 44 pst. – it also has a significant price tag. I see that the Progress Party will have the Stortinget to ask the Government to explore the possibility of establishing a Norwegian capital management environment based on the investments made through the State pension fund – abroad. I'd like to point out that close to 80 pst. the value of the fund is managed by the Bank of Norway and the remaining 20 pst. is outsourced to the very best administrators in the world. Nor is there anything in the way that Norwegian managers, in line with foreign companies, can compete for mandates to manage the Pension Fund. Knut Kjær, who is the head of Norway’s Bank Capital Management, held a lecture for a while, pointing out that one possible reason why so few of the external administrators were Norwegian, could simply be that Norway’s Bank makes clear demands for higher returns to be created than in the market in general — and this is often due to special competence or acute competence. Norway’s Bank has achieved good results, while costs are low. In particular, they have built up a good competence that benefits other organisations in Norway, i.e. in some contexts. when employees of Norway’s Bank change employer from time to time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e709	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e712	I'm trying to get a grip on what makes it possible to increase the share. The representative Jacobsen refers to analyses, but I think these analyses are not of a newer date, that these are analyses like for example. also existed in 2002 and 2004, which was the last time an evaluated share in the national budget of the Stortinget. At that time, the Labour Party believed that it was right to hold a share of 40 p.m. So today one means that it's right to raise it to 60 pst. The representative Jamessen showed that other large funds have 60 p.m. And so we have to have the same thing. It's a seductive argument, because then it has to be that if other large funds reduce the share, we have to do the same thing. Then my question is: is it that if other large funds change their share composition, the State pension fund – Foreign will do exactly the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e719	This is not the case, but there is a certain indicator that when large international funds have a higher share than the State pension fund – abroad, there may be a factor to be included in such an assessment. I just want to remind the representative Gjermund Hagesetter of an interview with him in the Finanzavisen, where the question arose when it was favourable or not favourable to have large market shares in shares. There it was, as I read the interview in the Finanzavisen, expressed reasonable doubts from the representative Gjermund Hagesetter about when it was favorable or not favorable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e726	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e729	First to the representative Alf E. Jakobsen: The Progress Party does not want – I do not stress – to give money to Norsk Hydro so that they can buy the business they want in Canada. We don't want to do that. If Hydro wants an issue, we believe that the State should follow its share of the issue and participate in it, if they wish, to finance the purchase in Canada. Norway is in a unique financial situation. We're rich. The cancellation message we are dealing with today clearly shows this. It gives the country unique opportunities. Our financial wealth creates expectations, and it creates liabilities. The big challenge this hall faces is to face up to the fact that our wealth gives us room for financial decisions that no other big business has ever had before. In political terms, this means that the parties must recognise that the arguments put forward and the priorities that were made earlier do not have the same validity today. The Progress Party has realised this, and we have chosen to focus on the possibilities and the obligations of our additional revenues give each individual citizen in this country. With NOK 2000 billion on book, a sum estimated to increase to NOK 10000 billion by 2030, Norway should have the ambition to create the world's best infrastructure, nothing less. The paper on the management of the State pension fund, and not least the leading rhetoric, is permeated by the lack of political ability to see things in context. Instead of looking at the country’s huge incomes as an opportunity, it is chosen to treat the increased incomes as a challenge. Instead of asking how these revenues can make more people less dependent on public transfers in the long term, a narrow approach is chosen, where more and more are made dependent on public benefits in order to make everyday living go around. In fact, it seems that some people feel that we actually have this money. We've become so rich and saturated in many ways that we should be ashamed of ourselves. Not least, this applies to the many in this room who entered into the policy of ‘taking the rich’ and giving their money to others. Now the roles are turned upside down. Now it is politicians who have become capitalists and shareholders themselves. Now it is Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen who is the guardian of the world's largest fund money. The Minister of Finance is holding a press conference in which she presents investment options and returns. Now it is she who has taken over the language theme of financial analysts, where, with the greatest degree of clarity, she presents the message of return in relation to market developments, of risk analysis and of long-termity. I should not be surprised if the Minister of Finance from the autumn of 2009 will find himself as a capital manager in one of our big brokerage houses. But while the Minister of Finance's press conference on the management of the pension fund was as proficient as the performance of a listed company, the content was rather thin. Yes, in fact, it seemed that the finance minister had forgotten that the money she manages is not her own, but that they belong to each of the inhabitants of this country in this generation and future generations. The Progress Party neither accepts Halvorsen's logic nor rhetoric to increase the share of the State pension fund. State pension fund – Foreign countries have gradually become a significant player in the world’s international financial markets. Extending the share of the fund is a decision that brings with it a great deal of responsibility. It is therefore important that the analyses on which the decision is based be solid and inviolable. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The Party considers that the risk analysis carried out is insufficient and not relevant. It is a pointless project to think about the share market from a 100-year perspective, not least because the basis for comparison becomes defective. The truth is that in the last 100 years, a majority of the countries to which the Fund is exposed have been exposed to internal unrest, revolution, the nationalisation of enterprises or the confiscation of stock exchange values. On what basis are we going to conclude today that the next 100 years are going to be particularly different? Is there really anyone in this room who thinks that increasing our share exposure in, for example, India, Pakistan, Indonesia or South America is a wise way to manage our future pensions? The investment of the pension fund may not be compared with regular investment by management companies. This is because the decision-making mechanisms of the Fund are political and per. the definition is therefore not suitable for rapid decisions, and thus one will not be able to sell out of politically uneasy markets in time. So while other investors can quickly turn around and sell out of politically unstable markets in minutes, our pension fund will have to wait for the owner's political signals. Furthermore, the risk associated with historical events is greatly underestimated and the presentation in the notification does not give a fair picture of the risk to which the fund is exposed. For example, how will the stock exchange markets react if Iran develops nuclear weapons and chooses to use them against Israel? Or what will happen to the stock exchange markets if religious extremists blow up a so-called dirty bomb somewhere in Europe? The Progress Party will, inter alia: because of the above, oppose the Government's wish to increase the share exposure of State pension funds. However, in line with the recommendation of the Bank of Norway, the Progress Party proposes to use 10 pst. the capital of the fund for investment in property. We believe that differentiation in several investment instruments will reduce the fund's risk exposure and thereby improve our investment. As the purchase of property will have to be made over a longer period of time, there is no reason that such a decision cannot be made today. As mentioned in our remarks, the Progress Party shares the government's view that the capital of the State pension fund can only be used once, while the real return can be used every year without reducing the asset value. On the other hand, such reasoning does not mean that such use of petroleum revenues is necessarily the most socio-economic. The Progress Party therefore underlines that investment in assets in the form of national infrastructure will in many cases result in a much higher return on long-term viability than passive ownership of foreign enterprises. Investments in, for example, transport, research and technology development in the petroleum industry could provide the basis for increased economic growth while at the same time providing us with a better basis for alternative economic pathways on the day the oil and gas deposits are fully exploited. The Progress Party therefore supports two proposals for the creation of fund structures in line with this. The Progress Party has long argued that a larger share of the State pension fund — Foreign funds for the benefit of Norway. We were therefore very surprised when earlier this year the Workers' Party's Jan Bøhler made the thoughts of the Progress Party his. Our enormous financial capital is to regard it as a comparative advantage, and we must be able to use it wisely. The Progress Party is therefore promoting proposals today in which we ask the Government to explore the possibilities of expanding the Norwegian capital management environment in the light of the investments made through the State pension fund – abroad. Of course, we expect the proposal to be supported by the Workers' Party on the basis of the media’s performances of representatives from Bohemia and other workers’ party representatives. The representative may wish to place such a capital manager environment in Groruddalen. There it could be a kind of business cluster together with StatoilHydro's new headquarters, Vålerenga Fotball's new stadium and the restored police post on Furuset, which has also been notified by the representative of Bøhler. I would also like to add some comments to the government's announced extended use of ethical guidelines for the fund's investment. Capitalism and the free market, which are scrupulous among many in this room, are undoubtedly the tool that has brought most people out of poverty. The United States, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Turkey, Japan, South Korea, Russia, most of Europe and large parts of South America are all examples of that, and it's actually Norway as well. The Progress Party is concerned that Norway’s Finance Minister wants to replace the free market with control, governance and rigid ethical provisions. We do not want to participate in an expanded practice that implies that it is the government's selective and subjective view of ethics that should form the basis for the management of people's money. We are constantly reading about new products that narrow interest groups believe should be affected by the ethical guidelines. And the government is responsive! The government is responsive because, like the interest groups, it either does not like the production of the selected enterprise or the way in which these products are produced. The government has already excluded the world's largest defence equipment producers from its investment portfolio, and in parallel with this notification, we are dealing with a proposal that will exclude tobacco companies. Where is this really going to end? What about breweries producing alcoholic beverages, farms producing reprocessed food, or publishers publishing books and films with violent or pornographic content? Or what about real estate companies that run casinos in Macao or Las Vegas? Why not also exclude companies that do not have 40 pst. representation of women in the board of directors or companies using options in their remuneration systems? Or what about those companies that don't have ethnic minorities in management? And why should the Government actually invest in companies that contribute to increased climate emissions, such as the United States and Japan? manufacturers of aircraft and cars? And what about the energy producers? And finally, why not exclude investment in enterprises from countries with political positions that we do not like? Here, only the government's imagination sets limits. But just to show how selective and double-ethical the Government enforces and practices the ethical guidelines, it can be mentioned that the Government excludes investment in enterprises that produce components of nuclear weapons. At the same time, throughout the Cold War, Norway has been protected by NATO's nuclear weapon umbrella, just right against SV's votes, but the protection at least ensured peace and won in the cold war. As I mentioned to the representative Holmås, the Minister of Defence acquires an annual weapon for billions of dollars from businesses excluded by the Minister of Finance. So the representative Holmås sees no inconsistency in that, because he believes there is a big difference between making the company profit and benefiting. It is a little difficult to understand the difference here, but he thought it went well with one sentence's answer, because it was so obvious, according to the representative Holmås. So obviously it's actually not for me. Why is it ethically correct to exclude investment in all the largest defence equipment suppliers in the world, while at the same time the Government maintains ownership of e.g. national defence industry such as Kongsberg and NAMMO? Yeah, not only does the government own the national defence industry, we even spend nearly 600 million dollars. kr of the year that we give to the Defence Research Institute to develop even more deadly weapons, even more effective weapons. It's actually the Swedish Defence Research Institute's role, and it's using the government $600 million. kr per. It's ethical, because it's over the state budget, the Ministry of Defence's budget. But investing in the company of Lockheed Martin, the world's largest defence equipment manufacturer, who has maintained peace for us in the Cold War, is unethical. The whole business is unethical. It's shameful! In the Communication, all parties agree with the Government’s proposal to exclude investment in the state of Burma – including the Progress Party. Yeah, because you don't like Burma. For whom is the military junta actually in this politically meaningless country? It must feel really liberating to all of us in this room when we can now turn on our politically correct chest and say: Look how principled we are, we boycott Burma! What we do at the same time, of course, is we define Burma as the worst in the world, or should I say the most unethical country? Is Burma really the worst or the most unethical country in the world? Or is it that a boycott of Burma does not lead to any international reactions? There is no country that defends Burma. That's why it's politically unproblematic, of course, to exclude them. But why does the Government not exclude countries such as Saudi Arabia, Syria, Venezuela, Sudan, Zimbabwe, Cuba, Iran, Pakistan and China, just to mention people who daily violate human rights – yes, where actual human rights violations are included as part of the state administration and judicial system of the countries? Why is it worse when the military junta in Burma jails people without judgment than when other countries do the exact same thing? And why is it worse to imprison people without judgment than to deprive women of their fundamental rights? Or why is it acceptable to buy government bonds in countries that practice the death penalty to convert from Islam to Christianity, or in countries where Christians are persecuted and churches are burned? The truth is that Burma is a politically correct country to boycott — a country that does not give any political signals at all, except for the good conscience of some in this room. Finally, I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e796	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e801	In contrast to the government party, the Progress Party believes that a larger part of the State pension fund – Foreign is to be managed in Norway, just enough by going the way for a distribution. There are many good reasons why this should not happen. The main point is that Norway's Bank's mandate is to donate money to the Norwegian people. Therefore, Norway's Bank uses the asset managers that can generate the best returns. Moving an administration to Norway, we can lose our returns. Norwegian administrators are lower than foreign administrators. One only achieves a few extra jobs here in the country. My question to the representative Tybring-Gjedde is therefore: why should we use our community's savings to subsidize Norwegian administrators, a group that already thinks significantly more than most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e810	I don't think Reidar Sandal has fully understood the principles of a capital management environment. It is not that there are 200 people with shirt and tie down on Aker Brygge who are going to make money. Creating an environment, creating an insurance business around the environment, and creating an interest in raising capital in Norway instead of going to London or New York, is the whole point. If we had made exactly the same argument to someone who worked in London City, he wouldn't have understood what we were talking about. There are tens of thousands of people in London related to the capital management environment. And why not, when we have this resource? We have unique resources in Norway in terms of capital. Then we should go in the breeze. We should be the leaders in the Nordic region, not let the Stockholm Stock Exchange take over this environment. We should establish this environment in Norway, and we have asked the Government to investigate how this can be done. There's an attempt to get it adopted today, we want the government to investigate it. We think it's possible, we think it makes sense, we have the money, we should do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e817	I must say, I think this is sad. I really think it's sad that a party that in its time helped to make the most of ethical guidelines in Norway, now has completely abdicated from this, by mocking ethical guidelines and mentioning bans on casinos in a current future to cover the fact that the Progress Party is actually going in to make money on nuclear weapons, land mines and class bombs. But this aside, that debate we have had with the Progress Party several times, and it's okay to hear the arguments. But I wanted to grab hold of another thing. So it's true that in many cases, as we say, investment in assets is going to be more socio-economically profitable than the 4 pst. as we expect in real returns on the stock exchange. We do not disagree. But is it the case that the Progress Party, in the way they want to rig this fund, can guarantee that from here and into eternity they will only be involved in projects in the road sector that are socio-economically profitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e827	No, I don't think we can. But it is very sad that Holmås is tired. Good fund structures will generate returns, and we have therefore established these two funds so that they can yield returns, so that we can guarantee that the infrastructure is given priority. Then we won't be dependent on the annual budgets and priorities of any current government, but we'll get a guaranteed return on that fund of NOK 300 billion, where we'll spend the 4 pst. in average returns on investments in roads. It's so obvious, wherever we travel in this country, that what people complain about is the infrastructure. It's the transport sector that needs a real upgrade. This means that neither the national transport plan nor the government's great ambitions it claims to have had through Soria Moria. I can guarantee that in 2009, when this government goes off, people are just as dissatisfied with the transport structure as they were when the government went into the government offices. The progress party wants to do something about it. We have the money, and we should create the world's best infrastructure. We should promise our voters in the 2009 elections that we will. At least that's what the Progress Party will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e836	It almost sounds like the representative Tybring-Gjedde is becoming more and more convinced of his own argument, as the article progresses. Finally, I put that question to the bottom, since two thirds of his posts were about the ethical guidelines: why don't the party scrap the ethical guidelines at all? That's probably the conclusion of the whole Tybring-Gjedde post. Don't you really want to remove them completely? Is that not the consequence of the arguments put forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e841	No, that's not right -- I also used a third of my article on the ethical guidelines. The Progress Party has said that we want to work against, for example. corruption. It has nothing to do with market economy. The countries — many countries involved in corruption — and the firms involved in corruption have no guidelines. We cannot regulate this through any regulatory instrument, whether it be the OECD, the IMF, the UN, the EU or the EEA. Those who are involved in corruption, and who we discover are involved in corruption, I believe, should be excluded. There we must be quite unmerciful. That is a good example. I believe that child labour has also been an example of this. But it assumes that the option for these children is schooling. We're not going back more than 200 years, maybe 300 years, in time, when Norway also worked as a child, in agriculture and in mines. If a foreign government had come and told us that you are not allowed to do this, it is unethical, does the representative believe that Norwegian companies would have found themselves in it? The point is that we are at different levels of development, and we are implementing our levels of development from 2007 for countries that are at a lower level of development than we are. And that's what we call ethics imperialism.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e850	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e853	It wasn't very obvious what Tybring-Gjed now said in his last reply. I remember very well the last period, when the Progress Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, were the drivers of establishing the ethical guidelines. Yes, it was probably the case that party president Jensen then joined with SV's fractional leader in the finance committee, Øystein Djupedal, to impose this at some point – so that the Progress Party has a prehistory here. When Tybring-Gjedde then asserts that he wants today's ethical guidelines, but that he does not like them quite so, it is not quite obvious how it should be practiced by those who are responsible. Now leave it. I really took the word in interest of the representative Heikki Holmås’ posts. He now almost sounds like a Right-Man in his defense of the market and the stock exchange. Away are all the words of carrying oats to a dead horse; now it was the stock exchange and the market that provides more money for welfare. I think that's very nice. Because I fully agree that a well-functioning market economy and investments in the market are important for value creation, because it creates well-being. I also agree with the representative, Holmås, that due to farsightedness and political choices, we today have a few thousand billion kroner in the Pension Fund, which gives us security for the future. But I can't quite fail to point out that here there is a significant turnaround in the Socialist Left Party, which has been largely against the development of most oil and gas fields in the North Sea, and which was against investing 40 pst. in shares which, according to the Minister of Finance, would have contributed to the loss of SEK 59 billion – which can now be invested in future welfare. And it was probably only after SV came into government, that one became a hacked-in adherent to the rule of action. But when that's said, I'm glad you're more in line today. That is why I can also inform the Minister for Finance that the Right agrees with the proposals contained in the Single European Act. It's essentially a follow-up of the line that also led the Right in government. We support the proposal to increase the share capital to 60 p.m., and we support the other proposals contained in the paper. We also believe that it is right to carry out an evaluation of the ethical guidelines and to see whether or not to develop the ethical guidelines further. That's why we're not ready today to go into any of the proposals that the Christian People's Party is going through. We believe, like the Minister of Finance, that it makes sense now to make a real evaluation. It is quite obvious that when a state invests several thousand billion dollars internationally, some dilemmas arise. It's precisely because of these dilemmas that it's right to have ethical guidelines. We therefore believe that we should now allow today's ethical guidelines to work, and then we will get back to an evaluation of the practice of those we have, and possibly a discussion about whether they should be further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e868	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e871	In relation to a previous case in Stortinget, it is more difficult to find areas where the Right and the Government parties disagree here, but there is one point, which the representative, to some extent concerned, where the Right goes out of the majority. That's the point of ethical considerations. The note points out that it is through the exercise of ownership and the threat of exclusion that we have the greatest opportunity to influence companies. Then we join some areas of activity in 2007–2010, and the same majority point to areas that will be important to include in the evaluation of the ethical guidelines. What's in this thing that Right has counter-representatives to? It might have been a good idea to find out if there are areas in this – that go into bet areas – that the Right doesn't talk loud about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e878	We do not need to write in this case in the long and wide sense. We are pleased with the way in which the Minister of Finance has continued the ethical guidelines put in place in our time of government, and we do not need either to impose anything on the Minister of Finance in this matter or to elaborate on what reasons she should take further care of in this area. We join in the practice that is being carried out, and the message that has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e883	It was kindly done by Jan Tore Sanner to give me a juda kiss from the pulpit up there. I guess you just have to accept and say thank you. The representative is right in a few things, namely that we wanted a different development and extraction rate from the North Sea. One of the reasons for that is the importance we thought it could have for the economy, because it's clear that the oil industry and the fluctuations there are a destabilising factor for the Norwegian economy. Our most important argument has always been the climate. And even though the Right argued harshly against that time, there's no doubt that we were right about the significance of oil extraction for the overall impact on the climate. What I thought I was just going to point out to the representative is that I find it fascinating that the Right in some ways has abdicated from the ethical front in terms of the oil message, saying that they're lying flat, the Government has a good view of the ethical issue. In its time, the Right was hard on, but they're following up what's standing here, dancing for SV's pipe. We're happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e892	Now it was actually meant to be a compliment to say that the representative Holmås sounded like a Right-Man. I'm sorry if he thinks it's a juda kiss. I think it in many ways was a good post he made. But I also have to say that we do not abdicate in any way from the debate, because we believe that the debate is very important. I underlined in my speech that when the Norwegian state invests several thousand billion dollars in the international market, some dilemmas arise, and those dilemmas demand that we have some ethical guidelines. We support that, and we're going to participate in that discussion. But I think that when the Minister of Finance announces that she will carry out an evaluation of the practice of today's rules and the possible further development of the guidelines, we will await that discussion. Then we don't need to explain in advance how we want to deal with it. We believe that the ethical debate deserves that we get more meat on that leg that we are then going to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e901	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e905	Replicator with a biblical background has a tendency to nurse anyone in this room, so I can probably keep saying that if the representative Holmås turns the other cheek, then he might get another kiss, but I don't want to have that name of me to which he referred. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would like to commend the fact that we are now presenting a separate message about the management of the Pension Fund, because it gives us a better opportunity than we have had in the past, to look at the big wealth that we are now placing or relocating. With regard to the result itself last year, we see that it is a good return in line with – what to say – the international economic cycle. We have a return of 5.9 pst. in the case of State pension fund – Foreign. So a few words about the investment strategy. It's the way the government now suggests that we go from 40 pst. share capital of 60 pst. share capital. It is clear that there is a risk assessment here – the objective of a high return weighted against risk, and balanced against the risk of placing in other securities. From the Christian People's Party we went in time for a share of 30 p.m. I guess that's about. 10 years since you went to the step of having a share of 40 p.m., and we also record that especially SV has changed vision since then. It was not only the absence of ethical guidelines that justified SV’s refusal to invest in shares, but also the fact that funds were invested in international shares through private capital management companies. According to SV, this would result in a «privatisation of the oil fund» at the time. I fully agree that they have reviewed that position and come to the conclusion of what is the recommendation of the Government today. So to this with ethics and ownership, where the Government, by the Minister of Finance, has blackened the Storting on the representative proposals that we from the Christian People's Party have promoted. I agree with the Minister of Finance that it is important to maintain a broad political consensus on the ethical guidelines. At the same time, we think there is reason to have a driving role in this. There should be an ongoing development on this issue. I hope the government will join in capturing recordings that can help strengthen the ethical profile of the fund. I have to say that the majority comments also bear a bid for that. We think that is positive, and the representative Holmås should take it as a compliment – without any thought behind it. We note that we agree that we should look at best practice to a greater extent than today, and that we are interested in looking at dialogue with other independent environments, often represented by NGOs, about ownership. It is also willing to look at excluding investment in some types of products. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, this means that we are promoting three of the proposals originally presented in the representative's proposal, namely excluding tobacco producers, a greater assessment of 'best in class' investments, and this by looking at the possibility of investing in microcredit funds and venture funds. All in all, we are very pleased with what seems to be the majority's view in dealing with both the communication and our own proposal for a representative. I am thus addressing the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e926	The representative Hans Olav Syversen takes up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e931	First, I would like to commend the Christian People's Party for the commitment it shows to further develop ethical guidelines for the State pension fund – abroad. The challenge lies in finding good methods and developing methodology to implement them in practice. Then I am really a little curious about one of the proposals contained in the original proposal for a representative, namely paragraph 3, which was just promoted. That proposal uses the term «sustainable development». What's in it? How do you deal with such a concept in relation to corporate requirements, when there are so many places where we have interests, and there are so many different production methods and areas in which we are engaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e938	It is not a simple matter – we fully recognise that, and that is also why we are asking for an assessment of it. Our point is that these investments should also be assessed on the basis of a balance between the expected return and the risks involved. We are aware that such markets are limited, but we nevertheless believe that there should be an opportunity to look at the possibility of entering into the type of microcredit fund that this is about. With regard to the specific design of the requirements on which the representative Aasen Agdestein is involved, it must be part of the assessment we are making. It is not entirely unknown in other contexts where Norway contributes to investing in this type of fund, albeit not via the Pension Fund, but in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e943	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e946	The state of Norway is in a particularly favourable situation. We don't have enough professionals. We don't have a shortage of money. The challenge for the Government is to exercise leadership so that there will be enough professionals for the job that the Soria Moria declaration has created to be carried out during this large-scale period. So it's a matter of exercising political leadership. It's not on money. The Norwegian State has enough money to build the country — education, research, infrastructure and renewable energy — in a way that governments in the European Union can only look forward to. In addition to national investment, Norway has huge amounts of money to be placed abroad in the State pension fund — abroad, in the public currency called the Oil Fund. How the Storting chooses to place money on this fund is a balancing of returns, risks and ethical requirements to be followed. This is a political decision. There's no fasit. The way in which this financial capital of the oil fund is invested abroad can be a small signal from the maritime voice of Norway in the world. Its larger oil fund, its more important signal capabilities. Here, in the view of the Centre Party, there is a positive trend in the population, with a desire for an increasing emphasis for ethical reasons. Today only companies are contributing to grossly unethical activities, which are excluded from the Oil Fund. The threshold has been raised. That's why the oil fund has a long way to go to realize the intention that's coming to light here today. An important theme today is the increase in the share from 40 to 60 p.m., at the expense of how much is to be placed in government bonds. Based on the history description of the Ministry of Finance, this need not involve greater risk with the risk-spreading strategy followed by the Bank of Norway for both shares and sovereign debt. The big question when discussing where the money is to be placed is, in the view of the Centre Party, the stability of the world economy in the future. Here are the dark clouds. There is a high risk when the community of Norway has placed as many savings in foreign financial papers, while there is a worrying development in the US economy/economic stability, with significant deficits both in the government budget and in the trade balance that it has with the rest of the world. Therefore, in this light, it is not the percentage distribution between shares, sovereign debt and, where appropriate, investment in property that should call for the greatest attention in the future, but the indicators showing changes in risk with regard to international economic stability. The International Monetary Fund has for a long time been freed from capital as its ideology, while, in its own words, practicing ‘full transparency’ and ‘early warning’ — full transparency and early warning — in its information work on international economic stability. However, this strategy has proved to be quite incomplete. At the latest in the major economic crisis in the tiger countries of Asia, one of them showed that these warning systems did not work in practice. The free movement of capital is therefore a major international risk project in relation to everyone's desire for currency stability. The management of State pension funds is therefore a very important issue. Many feel that what could happen to the fund is future security – in my view and in the view of the Centre Party: a healthy scepticism. A prudent deployment strategy for the oil fund, as well as a more cautious rate of extraction of oil and gas, is therefore, in the view of the Centre Party, most in line with the attitudes of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e963	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e966	Here in the day I was on the website of the Center Party again, and in this connection I came across an interesting information about ten good reasons to vote the Center Party. I found just four to five good reasons. But point 9 was a little bit interesting. The heading was a national business strategy. Here the Centre Party promises that it will further develop its business life in Norway, starting from among others. the capital held by Norway. Furthermore, I found a resolution that was adopted at the national meeting of the Central Party on 17 March 2007 – it is not that long ago. It looks like this -- I don't know if Lundtigen remembers it. There was a section that also goes on capital access and management. In paragraph 2, it says: ‘Other developments in the Norwegian financial industry by allowing established financial environments in Hv, Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger and Tromsø to undertake administrative tasks for the State Pension Fund – Foreign.’ It is quite similar to the proposals made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e978	What Mr. Rytman brings up here is absolutely correct. Thus, the centre party wants to combine a placement of financial assets abroad with a national business strategy for key industries in this country. We are therefore positive that we ensure a substantial ownership of HydroStatoil. We are positive that one can see new companies being set up that can further develop renewable energy, in the same way that Statkraft has developed it in the hydropower sector. In the case of financial environments, we are positive that one within the administration of the State pension fund – Inland, i.e. the Swedish Social Security Fund, takes part of that capital and splits into new funds, which are managed by different financial environments in Trondheim and Bergen, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e985	As an SV, the Centre Party also has a history when it relates to the oil fund share. Initially, the Center Party was skeptical, and late in 2003 they also put forward a proposal to reduce the share from 40 pst. until 25 pst. Then the stock market was down, he was low in price. Today he's got a very strong ladder, and now one has changed its mind and wants to increase its share. I would also like to quote a comment from the Central Party from that treatment four years ago: ‘In this context, the Centre Party prefers a more risky investment profile where the variance is reduced by relatively higher investments in bonds. This may imply a cost in the form of lower expected returns, but this is at best a qualified guess.’ My question is, what has happened since 2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e997	That's right, what's said here about the Center Party's scepticism for equity investments. At the end of the 1990s, the Centre Party opposed investing in the oil fund in shares. What has happened since then is that the oil fund has grown to a height that is sky high compared to what it was then. Then one has to adjust the locations according to the new situation. Having said that, I would like to say that it is clear that we have a choice as to what extent we are going to place our financial capital in distributed shares and in a number of papers, both in stock exchange papers and bonds, or whether we are going to place them in a more strategic way. We now have so many fund-buildings that we have to go on a wider scale. What is then the situation is that with the current risk analysis and the spread of risk on both shares and bonds, it's actually an international crack that's our challenge. It will affect, as I said earlier, both shares and debt securities very strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1007	It is a little interesting what the representative Lundtigen now says, because I can't see anything being said about it at the 2003 hearing, where the Central Party argued that due to the fact that the oil fund is not larger than it is, a reduction in the share has to be made. Now it is that the oil fund has become so large that one is required to increase the share. Then it is nigh to ask: If the State pension fund of abroad increases further to NOK 3000 to NOK 4000 to NOK 5000 billion, the share should therefore be increased further from 60 pst. to 70, 80, 90 pst. Or maybe even taller? Is it the key for the Center Party that the larger the fund, the larger the share?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1014	No, it's not the Center Party line. We are not strangers to the fact that by further increasing the oil fund in a magnitude mentioned here, one can also be positive about placing financial capital in property abroad. At all events, you have to have a pragmatic view of this in terms of the situation. What's the big risk is international cracks and international stability. That's why we need to work on more levels to ensure international stability, and that we have a spread of our values, so that we are best protected from possible shocks in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1019	Then you'll have the cord shift over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1022	It is the first time that a government has presented to the Stortinget its own forecast of the State pension fund and its management. It is because we want to have attention to such an important job as managing a wealth of such a magnitude as we now have, and to invite the Stortinget to concentrate on it in a completely different way than when this is part of the national budget and in the budgetary procedure attention is often focused on many other things. It's now ten years since the first deposit came into the fund. The fund is approx. NOK 2,000 billion. We manage one of the world's largest funds. Now you might be tempted for a little while to think that this is our net worth. We know it's not. We owe a lot of money in retirement, but we have a wealth that most of the others envy us because we have this buffer against the commitments we have in the future, and we have an opportunity to transfer to our state budgets from the Pension Fund – which we do – to an extent that every 10-12 kroner above the state budget comes from revenue from the oil and gas sectors. There is a great deal of management responsibility with such a great deal of wealth, and it follows the responsibility that we should manage it for future generations, not just in view of us living now, and that we should contribute to stability both in terms of production and employment. We have gained international interest and recognition for how we manage the State pension fund. Last week the Russian Finance Minister was in Norway to hear how we did it. The Chilean Minister of Finance has spoken to us and has been on his way. Many other countries that face this challenge of managing a non-renewable resource have looked to Norway. It's nice for us, and it commits at the same time. We are pleased that the State pension fund achieved a high return in 2006. We know that we have a professional management environment in the Bank of Norway. We know that they generate more returns in terms of government, even though the starting point for a high economic cycle is positive. It is important to remember it very strongly, because we manage the people's money – those who live today, and future generations. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for managing the fund. We are the ones who define the framework, the overall investment strategy, and the ethical guidelines, and we are the ones who follow up the operational administrators who are the Norwegian Bank and the Swedish Social Security Fund. We have high ambitions for how we manage this. It is an important starting point – it has been for previous governments, and it has been for us – that there is a broad consensus in the UK about both the management of the fund and the ethical guidelines. It's a goal in itself. This is a fund that we jointly manage and that's why it's important. What creates the greatest discussion in this context is, of course, the proposal in the communication to expand the share from 40 p.m. to 60 pst. I don't think one could have had a finance minister with greater scepticism for such a proposal than what I had when we went into this. But I am of the very strong belief that it is best for the community to expand the share from 40 pst to 60 pst. Our scepticism in previous rounds has been that we did not have ethical guidelines – we do now. I'll get back to that a little bit. Furthermore, the balance between risk and return made it appropriate to be more moderate in relation to returns, and the last point is that we lacked experience. All of these three things are now arguments as to why it is right to expand the share. I have put the greatest emphasis on the fact that it is very easy to imagine this as if you are a small shareholder and intend to sell their shares in five years' time. That is not how we approach the debate on the location of the State pension fund. We're a long-term owner, we have a hundred-year perspective on this, and the balance we're now making between risk and return does not mean that we're going to have a moderate risk profile on the State pension fund, but that means that on a safe basis we can increase the share share, because this is in a long-term perspective. That means that we can have larger fluctuations in the returns in the future, but we know that we can deal with larger fluctuations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1045	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1048	The one standing alone is strong. Norway has been protected throughout the post-war period by NATO military, collective defence – NATO doctrine. That doctrine included the defence of Europe with nuclear weapons. In fact, first use was the doctrine, i.e. that we could use nuclear weapons if it was a major conventional attack from the east. Most defense analysts today say that it was NATO's defence concept and doctrine that made us win it the cold war. We stood tough, and we won the cold war, and we have peace. In order to be protected by nuclear weapons, we need manufacturers who produce components of nuclear weapons. So now the government has chosen to exclude companies that produce components of nuclear weapons. Does the Council of State agree that this is a rather small principleal attitude, that at one moment one should be protected by components of nuclear weapons, in order not to at the next moment accept to invest in companies that protect other countries that need protection of nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1061	I have to say that I am very surprised at the absolute turnaround of the Progress Party in the ethical guidelines for the State pension fund. There was a broad consensus in the Stortinget when these were adopted in November 2004, and there can be no surprise for the Progress Party or others that it was a goal to exclude precisely these inhumane weapons from the company. We have. Most of the companies excluded from the State pension fund are because they produce class weapons, land mines or nuclear weapon components. These are weapons that normally have to be considered inhumane. I'm aware that the Progress Party is infused with Norwegian membership in NATO, but that it was Lockheed Martin we were a member of, was a great surprise. It's two completely different things to invest in a company that benefits from producing weapons that are inhumane in normal use, and buying a product that you want to contribute to the Norwegian defense. There's two very different things about going into the Lockheed Martin store and picking up what you want, and investing in a company that produces what you think is inhuman.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1068	We have stated earlier in the debate that we support the Minister of Finance in her proposal to increase the share to 60 pst. – It was only to be lacking when a finance minister from the Socialist Left is at the head of it. Now it's the way this money comes from somewhere, among other things. they come largely from the extraction of oil. As the representative Jan Tore Sanner was involved in an earlier post today, the Socialist Left Party has had a different view of part of the oil extraction, among other things. the large extraction in the Snow White field to which the representative Jacobsen referred earlier today. Does this mean that SV has now changed its view of the pace of oil extraction, which they previously thought should be slower?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1077	I am very proud that SV has presented a different perspective in the discussion on how to extract and manage our oil wealth. An alternative way to manage the oil wealth – that is to pump it up, switch it into a financial asset, put it into the State pension fund – is to leave the oil and gas assets where they are. And it's been our argument all the way, that it's actually going to manage the oil wealth by not pumping it up as fast as the bulk of the population wanted, for economic reasons, but also because we thought it was a much more sound climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1082	The Minister of Finance was concerned about some of the reasons why SV has changed their outlook on investing in shares, among other things. she said that there are now ethical guidelines. She also mentioned two other reasons that make a skeptical Kristin Halvorsen nevertheless go in for the expansion to 60 pst. What I did not hear any comments about was that in 1997, SV stated that placing funds in foreign shares through private capital management companies, as it was called, would result in the privatisation of the oil fund. The same thing is happening today. So my question is, what has happened at that point about Kristin Halvorsen's view of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1091	It is unmistakable that you should have a pension fund of NOK 2 000 billion and invest everything in the state and preferably in Norway. It can't be done. What we do through our investment strategy is to commit this to real values when we invest in shares spread around the world. What we also achieve by increasing the share from 40 pst. to 60 pst. As we buy up, based on today's wealth of the Pension Fund, we get another 400 billion dollars for which we can invest and use ethical guidelines when we conduct our ethical ownership. We use our power as the owner of a globalized, internationalized economy, where capital flows freely, so that our savings will help make the world a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1099	There has been evidence in the debate that Lockheed Martin Corporation was excluded by the State pension fund of the previous government. Today's government is proposing to purchase four Hercules transport aircraft for 3.6 billion kroner from the same company that was excluded from the Pension Fund for ethical reasons. I think the Minister of Finance should be given the opportunity to reflect more nuancedly around the dilemma this must be. Is it not a paradox that funds from the oil assets placed in the Pension Fund cannot be used to invest in this company, while the return of the Fund on the State budget can be used to purchase new aircraft from the same company, and thus contribute to the enrichment of this company?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1106	It is a little surprising to me that several representatives and now the Left have discovered this so-called paradox. This was carefully dealt with by the Graver Committee, which was reduced to see if we should have ethical guidelines. The selection concluded with what has been SV's wish since 1999, that we should have it. They even found the methods for how to combine long-term returns with an ethically responsible development of the world. Then this “paradoxet” was just recorded. The Graver Committee said it was clear and clear. The size joined it. We can set our own terms for how to place our savings. It's about how we manage our wealth and ownership. So it could be that we need goods to, for example. to defend our country. That means we buy them from companies that we're not inside for ethical reasons. But we don't buy what's the background because we exclude them. We don't buy land mines, class weapons and nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1113	Now we have been given more explanations as to why it was best to reduce the share in 2003, and why it was best to increase it now. The one explanation, from the representative Holmås, was that one now had new information that one did not have in 2003. The representative Lundtägen's explanation was that the fund had become so large that one had to increase the percentage of the axans. Now it is said here that there were no ethical guidelines in 2003 that led to a desire to reduce. What is a little strange and special is that SV has not said anything about this, cork in the debate or in the comments. And one way to think about it is there's a big risk of having a lot of money in axles, and that one will get away from that risk. My question to the Minister of Finance is: can the Minister of Finance guarantee that if we now have a long-standing decline in the stock market, will there not be any chance that the SV and the Central Party will come forward with new proposals to reduce the share share?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1122	I can do that, because this is a conscious choice. It's precisely because we have such a long-term horizon for our investments in the State pension fund that we have come to the conclusion that it was right to expand from 40 pst. to 60 pst. Both the representative Holmås and the representative Lundtegen are quite right. Several assessments have been made. The background to SV's skepticism in its time was also related to the ethical guidelines. What this whole big message documents is that if we look at the stock market 100 years back in time, and see that we have the same time horizon in the future, it shows that the more return from investing in shares is many times higher than investing in bonds. When we balance this out, the possibility of an extra return is going up from 40 pst. to 60 pst. NOK 240 billion over a 15-year period, while the risk increases moderately. These are balances you have to do all the time. I record that the Progress Party has a totally different assessment of this today than before, surprisingly enough. But it's 240 billion kroner they could risk saying no in 15 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1129	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1132	As the Minister of Finance has just pointed out, delegations from many different parts of the world visit Norway with a view to learning about the management of Norwegian petroleum wealth. Thanks to sensible politicians before us, Norway has established a long-term management of the financial assets that the oil and gas revenues give us. This has given us an economic freedom without equal, both historically and in comparison with all other countries. The size has now been invited to take a position on how this wealth is to be distributed between different investment objects. I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has contributed to the exemplary access of the Finance Committee to good investigations and the country's best expertise in this area, so that the decision-making basis has been as optimal as possible. Such a significant decision, with such a great impact on the country's economy in the long term, must be based on a thorough political process. It is also very gratifying that a relatively broad majority of the Storting agrees to increase its share from 40 p.m. to 60 pst. In this area of policy, long-term sustainability should be a guiding principle. We cannot switch investment strategy in line with different election results. When the professional advice on which this decision is based is so strong, it makes an impression. The increased share will yield increased returns. The risk of the opposite is relatively modest, according to the Bank of Norway. In this context, there is reason to stress that the advice applies to investors who can sit for a long time without having to sell when the share prices fall. So that means we're dealing with an almost eternal time horizon. Government pension fund – Foreign is such an investor. It is important to include in this debate. The fact that one party in this hall does not want to increase the share of the fund is a legitimate position. On the other hand, the justification given is strange. The party claiming that the analysis is based on the decision base is deficient because it has not been included in the analytical basis that extreme events can be faced. It is pointed out that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction to countries ruled by religious extremists can have far greater consequences on world financial markets than historical experience provides. It is clear that something like this will have a dramatic effect, but not just on the stock market. It will have a dramatic effect on the bond market, and it will have a dramatic effect on the property market, which the Progress Party is committed to entering. That's 10 pst. the fund is invested, according to the Progress Party, despite the fact that we have not received such a comprehensive analysis material as for the stock market. A possible nuclear war or another dramatic event is likely to have a very negative effect on all types of investment objects. War is devastating for all economic activity. We should agree on that. Now what we're going to decide is the distribution between different investment objects, and then the nuclear war threat becomes almost irrelevant. Since the Progress Party believes that the risk analysis is so deficient, I also wonder how it can be that so many other large funds – private funds, pension funds, etc. – has chosen a share greater than 40 pst. Does the Progress Party believe that the major capitalist companies with the best paid economists in the market, who work with and support the world's largest fund, are based on poor analysis? In that case, it makes sense to assume that the Progress Party believes these well-paid and competent people are also based on lack of analysis. In my view, the argument of the Progress Party is based on lack of analysis, not on the analyses we have received from the Bank of Norway or the Strategy Council. No one can see into the future. The world's economies are constantly changing. That's why it's a vriot for all of us to predict what's going on. At the same time, we must strive to make as rational a choice as possible in this matter, which is fortunately agreed by a broad majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1156	In many ways, this is a rather strange debate with strange constellations, for the SV and the Center Party, which has traditionally been against axes all the time until now, they argue here to increase the share, while the Progress Party, which has traditionally been a supporter of having axes in the oil fund, argues against the red-green parties, which thus go in to increase the share, something the Progress Party does not want. Now, of course, there's no fasitant answer to what's right here. It is quite correct, as the representative Jacobsen pointed out, that neither the Progress Party knows what time the top and bottom are in the stock market. But what we know is that the stock market has developed very well over the last few years, so that the funds that have been heavily exposed in axles have lighted good money on it to this day. We also know that today's axes are the price of historically high rates in relation to book values. Almost never before have the axes been as high a price as they are today. The finance minister made a point that when you look at this in a historical perspective of 100 years, a not losing money on axles. Well, if one had invested in axes 100 years ago in Russia, before the revolution, one wouldn't have sat back with any of those investments. It shows that there's no fasitant response to this, and it's a starting point that we all have to have with us. Statens pension fund – abroad is the Norwegian people’s money. That's why it's important that we manage these money in line with our citizens' wishes. Then, of course, you have to add to a good return, without taking too much risk. Greater exposure in the stock market may result in an increase in returns, but it also increases risk. There are many relationships that govern it. In addition to the economic development of companies and society, the stock market is also affected by market psychology. The stock market is driven by greed and fear. In the same way that it was feared that the SV and the Centre went in to reduce the share of the oil fund in 2003, the greed is now causing the same parties to want to increase the share of the oil fund. One has seen an increase in the stock prices, and then one thinks it's going to be on. In 2003, we had simply had a long-standing decline in the stock market, and it was most feared that this decline would continue. Now we've had a long rise. Oslo Børs has a 400 pst ladder. in four years. Gratitude causes more and more people to become positive towards axes, driving stock markets up to the point of fear. This drive can also be formulated in such a way that once the last pessimistic has become optimistic, it is not advisable to increase the exposure in axes, as there are no more new optimists left to push the rates further up. Then I'd like to tell the classic story of why billionaire John D. Rockefeller sold himself out of the stock market. Rockefeller had done very well in the stock market, especially in the 1920s. In 1929 he went to the shoe polisher, and he found out that the shoe polisher had also become positive to the stock market. Then he sold all his axles. He thought that when the shoe polisher has also become positive to the axes, there are not so many new ones that can be positive to the axes, and thus the top is reached. Shortly after he sold out, the big crash came in 1929. This story is not about there being something wrong with the shovels, but the point is that they represent a group that has traditionally not been occupied with axes. SV and the Center Party are also not traditionally occupied with axes. That's why there's a danger signal in itself when these parties argue strongly to buy more axes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1184	It's exciting times when you're allowed to play and turn a fortune at the bottom of the sea into financial papers and other glory. Many people have expectations of us the youngest on Stortinget that we should sort things out in both the one and the other, and many have actually been on my doorstep with views on the management of the State pension fund. Many good purposes have been mentioned, ranging from investing in special environmental technologies to solving aid challenges in poor countries, withdrawing from companies that do not like, or other things. But I have not had one person, not one lobbyist, who has come to my door at the office and said that now we must be invested or reinvested in nuclear technology, in class bombs, in child labour companies etc. Not one human being has been asking about it. And that's not very strange, because here's the Progress Party so to the degrees of collision course with what ordinary people see as ordinary folk. When a great capitalist, with the voices of the people in his back and the money of the people, goes out and manages his own fortune, there are, of course, universal, fundamental human rights and the kind of things to follow. And of course, there are dilemmas and paradoxes that you'll get up in. But then to throw your back and say that sorry, this is too difficult, people get to do what they want, here the market gets raw, the juvenile law has to be raw – it gets too simple, and I think that's insanely defensive of the Progress Party in this room. I am delighted that this message will run into all the polling rooms and from all the Progress Party will have to have ahead. Then there might be some reactions, and the next time we're going to debate this, maybe pipe will have another sound. That being said, it's absolutely right that these are dilemmas. I think we should listen to the Christian People's Party's notions of microcredit, of tobacco, of all these themes. But I look forward to an evaluation of the entire scheme. I'm terrified that we're going to use up our instrument in a way where we manage the community's resources for future generations, and that, as the finance minister quite rightly says, maybe has a 100-year, 200-year or an eternity perspective, that we're going to be careful to use the pension fund for something other than what it really is, within ethical guidelines. The main objective must be to manage a wealth for the best of the next generations, and then it must be careful to exclude anything you do not necessarily like — legal goods, for example, within tobacco or within other themes. Yes, I don't know – we'll discuss it – but I'm fundamentally skeptical. But ethical guidelines on the bench, which I think everyone really wants to join, I think we need to have. So in the end, in the short term, we're increasing the share to 60 pst. In the Workers' Party, we've been for it. There was no problem for us, to say it like that. That was a sensible proposal, because we have received solid evidence that with just a moderate risk profile, we can get significant more returns by doing so. And it's clear that no, we can't guard against anything, just like Marianne Aasen Agdestein was inside. For the last 100 years, we've been through a couple of revolutions, two world wars, fear of nuclear war, cold war. It's happened a little bit of each, to put it nicely. We have also experienced, at the turn of the year 1999/2000, a dramatic fall in stock markets through the IT bubble in Asia and elsewhere, which now benefits Norway – i.e. the pension fund. And why? Well, because we bought up, like one of the few players after the stock market had fallen. We had the opportunity because we're a long-term investor and didn't have to sell ourselves out because everyone else did. It shows that the dynamics of being almost an eternity investor are completely different from that of too many other investors.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1199	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1202	I would like to link some comments to some of the comments that have come after my post. I have to say that here it is very, very much ignorance, not least in terms of what the defence industry is actually doing. The world's largest defence companies don't run and make decisions on the dark control rooms and say that today we produce some nuclear weapons because there are some customers who want it. Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Boeing, EADS – all the big businesses – are inspired by their own national governments, so when we boycott or rule out Lockheed Martin, it's the same as criticizing America's government. This red-green government is probably very satisfied with it, but that's how it goes. In fact, Lockhead Martin doesn't even know where these components are going to fit in with the nuclear weapons they're producing, and they never produce a complete nuclear weapon, just components that are assembled by others, to create security and security of supply around this. And then the council says it's not a paradox that we're acquiring weapons from Lockhead Martin when we can't invest in that company. Yes, of course it is. But the truth is, we can't buy from anyone else, because there are no other suppliers that produce transport aircraft, from which we can buy. We've boycotted EADS, too. There are no suppliers who can deliver what we need to defend Norway. At the same time, we say that this is an unethical enterprise. And don't come here and say that the small office is unethical, but not that office, and: I acquire from these people, they're ethical, because they produce transport planes, but these produce components for nuclear weapons, so they're unethical. It's completely impossible to understand, and it's completely impossible to defend. Heikki Holmås could not do that either – he replied in one sentence that no one understood. And everyone understands that he couldn't defend it, because it's not possible to defend it. If you want to be principled, you have to stop acquiring from these businesses. It would have been respectable, but it's not going to be done by this government. To the representative Sandal, who says that we need the best administrators: I think there are many Norwegian administrators who feel quite upset about that kind of remark. There are many Norwegian administrators who are very good – internationally recognised administrators who do it very well, but these are excluded from participating and competing for tasks with our money. It is also pointless. It should be remembered that America and the major countries have a global responsibility. Little Norway sits up in the north criticising everyone else, while these countries have a global responsibility. It's actually a balance that they're going to try to maintain while we're sitting and criticizing. And then, of course, we criticize those who are the easiest to criticize, the ones who are said to be our friends. They're the easiest to criticize. But do we criticize those who really commit human rights violations, all the countries that I hit instead? No, it's politically difficult. It's too hard to boycott Iran. It's too hard to boycott Saudi Arabia. It's too difficult to boycott Syria, but it would have been principled. Then we had drawn attention. But we don't. We boycott Burma, a country that nobody cares about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1230	With the declaration of love made by Tybring-Gjedde's representative to the defence industry in general and Lockheed Martin in particular, the Progress Party has only one thing to do, and it's proposing to change the ethical guidelines, so we're no longer going to exclude companies that invest in class weapons, land mines and nuclear weapons or produce it. It's the only logical ending. There are no issues about this that are new now. We can set completely different requirements for companies we want to go into the owner's side and want to profit from, than for companies we're going to buy from, even if there's no clear fasit at where these boundaries go. So to several other rarities that have come from the Progress Party in the debate. The example of Rockefeller, who discovers that the shoe polisher suddenly has the sense of shares, is really very significant. Because if Rockefeller had had some ice in his stomach and owned these shares one–two more years, he would have actually had a very nice return of them. The message has been very carefully reviewed. The notification shows the manner in which the share market resumes after cracking. It can only be assumed by the representative of Hagesette, as stated on page 53 of the notification. But the shoe polisher, on the other hand, may well have got a hat and sold out while the shares were at the bottom. For example, the Norwegian pension fund purchased it. in the past recession, which several speakers have spoken about, and have made good money on it, precisely because we are so long-term in investment. Then I just have to ask the representative Hageseter not to fly land and beach around and say that this is as if we were to place the entire State pension fund in Russia before the revolution. A little more knowledge can help spread. He knows very well that the way in which the state pension fund's placements are done is with a high degree of risk spread in many thousands of companies in many, many countries. So it's a dilemma that it's not just Burma that violates human rights, I totally agree with that. However, it is important to bear in mind some strict criteria in relation to how we now change from having a positive country list to having a negative. What we have decided on as a starting point is that the countries we exclude should be subject to sanctions on which there is a broad international agreement. That's when it comes to Burma. We follow the sanctions that the European Union has. Here we are in dilemmas. We are in all ethical work. But this is a field where Norway gains international recognition for our progress. In fact, there are several international funds that follow our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1241	There are several things that it is easy to comment on at the end of the debate – that is. Now I see that it is not the end of the debate anyway. Let me start with the ethical dilemmas, which the Minister of Finance was also involved in. It is clear that it is fully possible to set up several different problems here. I believe that in relation to Lockheed Martin, for example. is fully possible to draw up the principal line that is in the frontier country of the Progress Party and say that at the moment an enterprise operates with anything unethical, we are not going to have anything more to do with it. I give it to the Advance Party, it's quite possible to think like that. But another equally valid principle approach is to say that we distinguish between what's about owning and making money in unethical business, and buying something that's not made by the same thing that we consider to be unethical. If that's the way the Progress Party rejects it and believes that no, it's not – I feel that's what Christian Tybring-Gjedde says – I stumbled on the following: When Carl I. Hagen agreed to decide that these were the ethical guidelines we were going to go for, which were carefully discussed by the Graver Committee, is it then that Carl I. Hagen did not realize that what he was doing was an indirect criticism of the United States, which Tybring-Gjedde now believes to have perceived that it is? Did he not understand, while the Progress Party now understands? So didn't the Progress Party realize what they were into when they agreed to the ethical guidelines as they are now? It was pretty clear to the rest of us, to say it that way. In addition, there are other things that it would be interesting to know. The Progress Party is the only party that doesn't link the real return on the Pension Fund to what we're actually pulling into the economy and phased into the economy in the long term. Then I simply stumble on: what is the overall relationship of the Progress Party with the Pension Fund? If we spend the last year's budget, they're on a use of the oil fund between 5 and 6 pst. Is that a line? Is the policy of the Progress Party to use between 5 and 6 pst. by the oil fund instead of 4, in such a way that the oil fund is to be phased out and used up over time? Or they're going to increase this by about 1 pst. in the year, to use the first year 5-6 pst. of the oil fund, next year 6 pst., then 7 pst., then 8 pst., then 9 pst.? It would have been an interesting debate for the Progress Party to enter into this position. But the Progress Party does not. Instead, they say that we should set up an infrastructure fund of DKK 300 billion, which they argue will be used for socially profitable investments. But Christian Tybring-Gjedde says, no, we're not going to use them for socially profitable investments. Then I wonder how this relates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1250	To some of the posts that have been made, I have to make some comments. To the Torgeir Micaelsen, who was involved in the ethical guidelines and was a little skeptical to go further in relation to them because he thought it was difficult to balance out: yes, it's difficult to balance out, and we're holding on to the assumption that it's also an ethical obligation to have the highest possible return. There's no disagreement. But as far as the tobacco industry is concerned, and why we have proposed exactly an extract of it, there are some special reasons for it. First, every year more than 4 million people die prematurely because of smoking. Gro Harlem Brundtland, to use a person to whom I expect Micaelsen to have a relationship, said as Director General of the World Health Organization that tobacco was the only legal product that, in normal use, the consumer claimed an premature death. We are well aware that the international tobacco industry has known for decades about the serious adverse effects of smoking, but has kept it up. We are also aware – and I think the representative of Micaelsen is also – that when the tobacco industry is facing increasing regulation and resistance in the rich countries, what do they do? Well, then they throw themselves over the developing countries, where they don't meet that resistance, and come up with aggressive marketing to make new generations and new consumers dependent on their products. This is what we in the Christian People's Party believe, on the basis of an ethical assessment, is fundamentally wrong to contribute to. That is why we are maintaining our proposal, and I am also pleased that the majority is in favour of a comment which will help to assess this in the same way as other products that may have the same effect. So to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, no one cares about Burma, said Tybring-Gedde. Maybe someone should, then. In fact, I do not think that the lack of interest in Burma in the Progress Party should become a general political problem. It is okay that the Progress Party does not care about Burma, but I would rather have asked myself to get the same label from the representative Tybring-Gjedde as a general expression of what the attitude is like here in the country. Tybring-Gjedde was also concerned about this with ethical imperialism, that we should not transfer our standards to other countries. But then he himself had an exception: he would not accept any kind of corruption. So there also seems to be the representative Tybring-Gedde that it should be an ethical standard, and at least I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1263	The reason why I take the floor is the Minister of Finance's statement that the stock investments are risk-free, and that even if there is a crack, the market will almost match what happens again in one to two years. It's a very dangerous starting point if you're going to enter the stock market, if you think it's risk-free and so don't take on the risk of becoming more exposed in axles. It's referred to the 1929 crack. This was a crack that primarily affected the United States, and when it came to the stock market in the United States, it went a considerable number of years before he got up again. The world economy and the world's stock markets are not developing as negative as they are, but no matter what we may have as our starting point that one can have periods of decline that exceed much more than the one to two years outlined by the Minister of Finance. Another thing is that, theoretically, and historically, the axe has given a better return than bonds, there is no new knowledge that the SV Finance Minister has now found out. This was the case both in 2003, when SV wanted to reduce the share capital of the oil fund, and also initially when there were strong forces that wanted us not to have axles at all. The question I'm asking myself is, what happens if we get a period of decline that extends over two, three, four, five years? Will the SV and the Center Party start to argue again and propose that we reduce the share, as they did in 2003? The Minister of Finance has given a guarantee that it won't happen, but I'm not 100 pst. Convinced that it's going to be the case. What would be very unfortunate is that one might come into a situation where an increase in the share when the stock exchange is on top, and then it falls, and then a share lowers. Buying expensive and selling cheap is what doesn't make a lot of money. Then it is wiser to buy cheap and sell expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1272	Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1275	I certainly believe that the Council of State does not get the job of the capital manager anyway. She said Rockefeller should've waited, he should've just been in the market. The whole point of share investments is that the company has gone bankrupt! Then there are no enterprises, then there is no more capital left. It does not help to hold 1,000 shares in a bankrupt enterprise. That's the whole point. So to invest in a hundred-year perspective. The analysis is simply not good enough when companies can go bankrupt in the meantime. That's what's essential, we can't sell out. Other AIFMs, which manage other pension funds, may sell out. And then Norway and nuclear weapons: we've been protected by nuclear weapons throughout the cold war. The Council of State gave no answer as to why we were to be protected by nuclear weapons for 50 years, but today it is to prevent everyone else from being protected by nuclear weapons. So we were protected by Lockheed Martin and the components they produced, but now no other country can benefit from the same protection that we did – and we won the cold war. The SV Party will boycott goods from Israel but invests in companies in Israel. That's the opposite of the logic that it's okay to acquire, but not to invest. It's the opposite logic used in relation to Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1286	Just so that the caricatures of what I've said from the pulpit don't stand: I have not said that it does not mean increasing the risk of increasing the share. This means a moderate increase in risk, but at the same time it means a significant increase in returns. It's this balance we're now facing, where we've come to the conclusion that because we're so long-term owners, this is a sensible thing to do for the State pension fund. So Tybring-Gedde is right that if we put NOK 2 000 billion in one company, which goes conc, that money is lost. But we're in many companies, with small holdings, and it could be that if the stock exchange falls 1 year, 2 years, 3 years ahead, we've bought expensive. But we don't have to sell cheaply. We can be in the stock market, and we can also buy cheap and sell expensive at a later date. That's what happened the last time the stock exchange went down. I ask that the Storting join in the conclusion that there is a balance between different considerations that have made us change this composition now, and that the Progress Party has a completely different phase than our own Strategy Council and the Bank of Norway, and most of the other funds in the world have. It's going to be up to them. We've now made our balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1297	Yeah, we're getting round the debate. There are some interesting considerations just to see that some of the parties that are usually the most for shares, in this context are the most skeptical – and then I could still have that reasoning, but I don't want to do that. The second is the question of Burma, which in itself is a good question. There is no doubt that if SV had been alone, it had 60 pst. Uprising and steering the country for 20 years, it is possible that we would use our ownership power to implement exclusion on a broader basis. But we've been concerned that this has to be overlapping consensus. It means a width – we have to make sure that we don't play pingpong with the question of whether we should exclude or not exclude countries and territories, depending on the outcome of the elections. This has kind of been ethical guidelines, and we've been dependent on a width. One last question, to which I just have to get an answer, either here or outside: 12 billion kroner extra, the Progress Party proposes to use through its infrastructure programme. Is it in addition to the appropriations already in the budget, or is it not in the appropriations? – Instead of the appropriations in the budget, Christian Tybring-Gjedde is nodding. It's okay to know, because then it's only half of today's fund, so it doesn't matter in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1312	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 10 and 11. [[See page 3549]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1329	There are many examples of good results in this country in 2006. There are too many enterprises in the private sector. The same is true for state action last year. All of this is joyous. The government has provided the State Accounts for 2006. It shows that it collects the surplus of the State budget and the State pension fund – abroad increased by DKK 119.5 billion from 2005 to 2006. The main reason for this is a substantial increase in the country’s revenues from the petroleum industry. In 2006, there were a total of NOK 367 billion. The 2006 accounts show that last year the oil - corrected deficit was DKK 44 billion. I guess that's $13 billion lower than what was used for the new-ageing period. Well over half of the final amount relates to higher income from taxes and taxes. The realignment of tax revenue is due in particular to the sharp increase in VAT and Employer Fee revenue at the end of last year. The strong growth is a clear illustration of the high activity in the Norwegian economy. Overall, the accounts show a decrease in expenditure of DKK 2.8 billion compared to the newly aged budget. Within some areas, expenditure is significantly lower than that budgeted. For example, there are social benefits under the people's roots and the State's Pension Fund. Apart from the reduction in daily allowances, much of the explanation can be found in lower costs of sickness benefits and basic and auxiliary benefits. When Stortinget dealt with the newly aged budget for 2006, a real, underlying growth in expenditure of 2 pst was established. Now, when we read the national accounts last year, we can see that the growth is estimated to be 1 pst. a downward adjustment of 1 percentage point. The total tax revenue from mainland Norway increases by 8.6 pst. last year, NOK 562.5 billion. The highest was the percentage growth of VAT revenue. They went up with a total of 12.7 pst. Other excise duties and customs revenue had an increase of 7 pst in the same period. In the other income items, growth was slightly lower. The government told me that they collected the taxes and taxes paid from the petroleum industry and the CO2 tax was NOK 217.3 billion last year. The capital of the State pension fund – Foreign countries increased by nearly NOK 393 billion in 2006. He was $1782.8 billion at the end of last year. There's every reason to rejoice that the economy in this country is solid. The 2006 national accounts are a very good example of this. He lays the basis for a good development of our welfare state in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1358	In the national accounts, we are witnessing an outstanding tax increase as a result of increased activity and tax rules in 2006. It is a tax increase that is DKK 20.8 billion higher than in the aged budget, and an increase of DKK 8.6 billion compared to what was laid down in the newly aged budget, which we received in the autumn of 2006. There are some huge tax increases compared to what one at best has budgeted for. And there's an almost incredible increase in the State pension fund – abroad with a total of NOK 392.7 billion, to NOK 1782.8 billion by the end of 2006. But the most important thing to focus on in the government accounts of the year is that net petroleum income, cf. The budget has fallen by DKK 2.5 billion. Net petroleum revenues are even lower in 2007, despite high oil and gas prices. So oil and gas revenues are expected to rise slightly in 2008 and 2009, then to fall, despite increased gas revenues in the future. We're going to be in a new situation quickly. We need to take this into account in an active strategic enterprise initiative, and more people should now ask the question: What do we want with Norway? It is urgent to invest for the future in sectors other than oil and gas. Time is needed for conversion. For example, 10-20 years are needed to set a stone to a social development based on renewable energy. We should take this over. It's a clear signal that we have 2.5 billion dollars less in net petroleum revenues than what had been used in the newly-eldered budget, and developments are moving rapidly towards falling revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1369	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1387	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1403	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1414	It has been a hectic, but very instructive task to be the case rapporteur for the Norwegian Filmlift. I would like to thank the Committee for its very constructive cooperation in getting this big message into port before the summer. Film is one of the most important cultural expressions of our time, not just because we can meet everything from music, living images, dancing and not least literature, conveyed out to a broad audience all over the country, but because movies reach both sexes of all ages, either through the cinema or through the TV route. The film engages, involves and makes us laugh and cry. Therefore, Norwegian film policy is very important, and the foundation laid down today is of importance to a large number of people. The Committee is essentially committed to the objectives set by the Government and sees the need to clean up and streamline through the pooling of several units to what is to become the new film institute. There's a lot of goals in the film release. At least 25 long films a year, increased talent development, strong production environments and an economically sound industry are wanted. You want 25 pst. the market share of Norwegian films and the export of Norwegian films and television dramas shall be doubled. You want culture and diversity and a film culture for everyone. This isn't trifling, but it's not hard to join it. We all want the film industry to continue to grow and be an enrichment for all of us. But it is nevertheless such that the opposition and the government parties are moving in their own direction with regard to some of the proposals that have been made. I have a short time, and instead of spending time on what we're agreed on, I think it's important to get the disagreements out. It is not difficult to see from the comments that there is a block division, where the governmental parties – or the majority of the committee – stand on one side and the opposition on the other. This is essentially a bit surprising, especially given the nature of this phenomenon in the last period, when the current government parties and the Progress Party were given by a majority through various elements of the film policy that is actually in place today. But it looks like something's happening to you when a guy gets into the government quarter. Suggestions you have previously promoted, you leave, and although I am sure the government has good intentions with all its proposals, you have obviously forgotten to listen both to industry and to users. That's why I want to spend the rest of my time focusing on the issues where, either with the rest of the opposition or alone, we disagree with the Government in their new policy. Firstly, we are very sceptical that a great deal of power is now to be brought together in one realm — the new film institute — unless there is a intention to create advice and samples where both industry and users are involved in the process that will now take place. But what makes me very concerned about it is that we should now have political control over the instruments in the film industry. Where was it of a free cultural life, which I think we have heard from all the government parties in previous debates? If the new institute can't manage to distribute the grants to the different genres, which of course have a lot of competence, then I'm worried. If the Council of State thinks he'll do better, then the Council of State has much better insight into this than I was first aware of. There will be more, because, as if the new institute is not large enough, the Norwegian Film Commission, which is the only national film institution outside Oslo, will also be included in the Institute. This not only sends strange signals across the country, but also to the network that the Norwegian Film Commission is about to reach, namely foreign producers, who are to be sent to Norway. Very many of the foreign producers will probably be a little skeptical that the state is so much leading the free art. The Norwegian Film Commission should be an independent entity and in a way disconnected from the State Institute. Centralization is okay, but not everything needs to be in Oslo. In fact, it's hardly a better place to sell locations abroad from than Bergen. That is why we have proposed that the Norwegian Film Commission should remain there and that it should be released from office. Then at the regional stake. The film report says it's very nice, as we all agree, that the whole country should be used. When the Government deems it necessary to restrict the film funds so that they cannot invest in long-term films supported by the State and cannot use the investment funds as they wish, this contributes to limiting the freedom of movement and investment of the regional film funds. Here too, the state must have a finger in the game. Of course, everyone supports the idea that we should use the whole country, and that we should build competences around the regions, which could be a springboard for example. new talents, but investors will have the same amount as the funds themselves will have the return on their investments, and there is hardly any doubt that there are essentially long films that yield returns. There may be doubts as to whether the film funds will ever work after the underlying intentions, and there may well be questions about those who have put money into the funds, realize that this is something they will continue to be involved in. Many will ask themselves the question of this gradually and a little hidden is a way to let power remain in Oslo – which, in the view of the Progress Party, is very gross. We therefore propose that the Government should not impose such restrictions on the regional film funds, but allow them to live freely and use their resources as they wish. And let me make it clear: it's very competent people who manage these funds. The third minority proposal contained in the vote is the proposal that, before deciding on the location of archives and the restoration of films, the Government should actually investigate whether it is feasible to implement them. As stated in the letter of the Council of State dated 29 May 2007, he is of the opinion that restoration and archiving are to be gathered in the National Library. What surprises me is that the Council of State does not take into account that much of the film archive that exists today is actually donated. What about these donations? They will no longer be on the assumption of those who donated, and perhaps with this valuable material will be lost. A donation can well be withdrawn, I guess. Another problem is that there is a difference between the type of film the National Library archives and movies. The latter require both advanced equipment, storage and not least competence. That is why we are promoting proposals to return to Stortinget with a national management plan for the film archive, so that we can be sure that valuable material will not be lost. These are three proposals that the opposition is more or less united behind. Finally, I would like to focus on a few points on which the Progress Party stands alone. The first thing I want to mention concerns the export and profiling of Norwegian films abroad. The point of progress is that, to the extent that the country is to contribute to the cultural profiling of Norwegian films abroad, it must be through other means than actual payment, for example. non-resident distributors to show them. It must be more appropriate, to the extent that you want to use Norwegian films to market Norway, to actually use the competence of Innovation Norway or the U.D. here. The Progress Party is awaiting the announced Action Plan for Culture and Industry, where this should clearly be a factor. Then to the purchase arrangements for Norwegian films. The Progress Party cannot understand that obtaining a purchasing system for Norwegian films in line with literature and music does not distort competition. There is already an industry that is responsible for both the sale and rental of films, which is clearly going to have problems if a purchasing system is introduced for films. The Progress Party has seen that the Government has an ambition that by 2010 the proportion of women in key positions in Norwegian film production should be at least 40 pst and that specific instruments should be used to achieve this. This cannot be supported by the Progress Party, partly because there are only three years left until 2010, and that means that you will get very busy. In addition, the Communication states that sanctions should be used in the allocation of e.g.: package grants, if this objective is not achieved. We do not believe that swinging the whip over a free and independent film industry will be a favourable solution, or achieving the goal that has been set, through criminal action. In conclusion, I would like to sum up in this way: it is very good and many good intentions, both for children and young people, and for us as cinemagoers and for the industry as such. But I'm concerned about the concentration of power and the hierarchy. I'm concerned that you draw all the skills to Oslo, that the talents don't get the opportunity to try out regionally, so we lose some of them out of Norway, and that this will go beyond a growing industry that thrives. As Marc Chagall said, ‘It is the destiny of the guides that they cannot follow the progress’. We are hoped that some parts of this wizard will suffer the same fate as the Chagall sketched for us. I would like to address the three proposals that we have put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1463	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1466	Storing message No. 22, The Wizard, is bidding for a new offensive for Norwegian film. It is a message that makes visible and continues the reinforcement of the film field that this government has provided from the first day. The Communication will look forward to further strengthening by defining key film policy objectives, including: these: production of at least 25 long films in the year of strong production environment, with increased talent development, professionalism and continuity in all sectors of economically sound industry through targeted grant schemes, increased private investment and increased market-receipt diversity in terms of expression, production costs and target groups, based on strong film environments in all parts of the country at least 40 pst. women in key positions by 2010 secure the Norwegian film heritage and make it available on all platforms a wide range of films on television, libraries and digital cinemas across the nation’s strengths the position of the film among children and young people such as film audiences and filmmakers The main principles for the division of tasks between the country and industry are continued and further clarified in the submitted film notification. Some important steps are taken to ensure the overall film policy of government and corruption, while the artistic content of film production is defined on the basis of cinematic judgement. An important tool for good national film policy is the proposed new film institute, which will carry out the current tasks of Norsk Film Foundation, Norsk Film Institute and Norsk Film Development. Such an overall activity was also proposed in the report of the Einarsson Committee and the hearing bodies which have expressed their views have been positive to the proposal. The aim of such organisation must be to ensure that the various tasks in the field of film can be viewed in a coherent manner, while at the same time the individual entities in the Institute have clearly defined responsibilities. However, it is not surprising that many have expressed concerns that such a large film institute could mean an excessive concentration of power in Norwegian films. It's a concern I understand. That is why it is good that both film reports, hearing opinions and an overall committee focus on this particular issue. In this way, it may be appropriate to refer to the report ‘Recruitment to Norwegian film production’ as at the initiative of, among others. Norwegian Film Fund was created by ACNielsen in August 2006. This report concluded that the film industry as it is today is not open and inclusive enough for new talents, and that the power situation in the industry may seem unclear. Both the film notification and several hearing bodies propose different measures for the new film institute to remedy this – to which the majority of the committee has agreed: clear boundaries between the different units of the institution, so that they can operate from the defined scope of clear political governance with the distribution of funds to the different units of a wide range of governance, which should otherwise have good regional representation councils with broad representational film regions; We believe that this can balance the desire for decentralisation and democratisation of the film field with the need for structures that both ensure rational, coordinated operation and the autonomy of the film field at the artistic level. I agree with what the film report says, that a comprehensive strategy is now needed for the regional film environment. The Communication stresses that filmmaking and film development in the regions must be seen as an important and natural part of the national film effort. Knowledge of the audiovisual field, and the ability to express itself through the media, has become available to an increasing number of people today, regardless of their place of residence. It is no longer that film competence is held only by a small elite. Today, children and young people master the technology and artistic expression offered by audiovisual media. There are increasing numbers of professional film workers, and they come from all over the country. And many want to live and work where they come from. It is therefore gratifying that the film report describes a stronger commitment to the regional film environment. Film centres are responsible for major parts of the value chain with competence development for several groups and grant schemes for card and documentary films. It is also great that the message makes it possible for the State to seek funding from the regional funds, provided that the funds themselves are able to provide at least the same amount. At the same time, the rule that applied under the previous government was that the state funds could not be used for feature films. From now on, regional funds can be integrated into all formats — both with government and regional funds. I have noticed that some people have expressed concern that the state funds in the regional funds have a delineation against Norwegian film funds, i.e. that the regional funds cannot use their State resources to top finance cinematographic projects financed by the Central Fund. I am convinced that this concern is unfounded. I think we will be able to get good synergies between government funds in regional funds and Norwegian film funds, among other things. by allowing regional funds to use their State resources to develop good regional projects, which could then, at their discretion, seek production support from the Norwegian Film Fund. In addition, these funds, together with regional capital, are important to attract international film productions — yes, in fact, the regions have a great advantage. It is important to internationalise Norwegian films. Cross-border cooperation can build skills and exchange knowledge. And you want good help from the newly created incentive scheme for films, which gives foreign producers 15 pst. discount on the amount of production left on the Norwegian location. And then it's like, with government funds in regional funds, you have the opportunity to create other stories, to get other lifeships made on film than the Norwegian Film Foundation's consultants choose. I believe in the professional background and understanding of the consultants in every way, but I am convinced that it is wise to let go of more eyes on what kind of stories can be conveyed on film. It can give us greater diversity and better movies. This can be achieved through both state and regional funds in the regional funds, which can now be adjusted to all formats, including long-term films. Then I would like to mention in particular the importance of the regional funds in the funds, which will not least be able to play with, for example. the national film fund and contribute to the dynamics required by the film field. That's what investment capital is. Then it becomes important to make sure that we get into these funds a kind of public and private venture capital, industrial capital, which can then be invested in the film projects. I would like to mention in this way the Government's action plan on culture and nutrition that comes. Without foreshadowing what that plan will contain, it's not unlikely that we'll be making films here as a very important cultural industry. In this regard, I have a brilliant story from the north that I've told many times before, but I like to repeat it in a day like this. In 2006, FilmCamp Målselv traded a total of 126 million in Troms – which both has a film fund and infrastructure. kr through recording of Norwegian and foreign films on the camp and in the rest of the region. FilmCamp invested 9 million. regional krona in these productions and the measurable return on activity in the region was more than 36 million. kr. At that time, not all the young filmmakers who got a job in production, who were thus paid for work and were able to further develop their film skills through cooperation with highly professional and experienced national and international filmmakers. I am convinced that both the camp, other regional funds and other regions have great opportunities to participate fully in the realization of the great film promise described in St.meld. No 22nd@item: An important international cooperation mechanism in the film field is the Norwegian Film Commission, which has the primary task of facilitating foreign film productions in Norway and communicating with relevant national actors. The Film Commission works at the intersection of culture and industry and has wide contact with travel and business. The Film Commission is currently located in Bergen as its own foundation, but is now proposed to be organised under the new Film Institute. Internationally, national film commissions are organised differently. Some are stand-alone, while the majority are subject to different state or professional organisations. I believe it is important to state that the work of the Film Commission can also have the same scope and the same work-related armpits as before. So I also think it might be that the film commission should still be located in Bergen, sail if it is now administratively subject to the new film institute. And then I'm going to finally push forward the offensive equality policy that the film message adds up to. The Communication calls for many good measures to increase women at all levels in the field of film, and it is a good ambition that by 2010 there should be at least 40 pst. women in key positions in Norwegian films. Both scholarships, mentoring schemes, talent development funds and various parts of the grant schemes are now being set up to achieve gender equality objectives. Similar objectives are laid down in other countries' film policies, including: in Sweden, where the goal is 40 pst. gender distribution by 2009. It is the opinion of the majority of the Committee that cultural life in general should have a good gender balance, so that both women's and men's lives and stories are reflected and told through various artistic expressions. St.meld. No 22 prescribes a promise for the film and for Norway as a film country. It facilitates good film environments across the country. It points out that film is an international art form, and it takes clear action to bring Norwegian film into the world and the film world here to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1544	Right-wing support in all main aspects of the objectives set out in the message in relation to film policy. As an investigation, the communication is a good basis, not least in the context of the Einarsson report, in relation to the further work on film policy we are going to consider. However, the Right is skeptical of the main political course we see the profile of. In our view, this is about achieving the objectives through stronger government governance and a stronger public grip on the development of the industry. Right here will dash out another way where power distribution and diversity are keywords. The film environment in Norway is not widely regarded as an industry. This, together with the fact that state grants over time will be the main source of income, makes it particularly important to minimise the centralising effect of state resources. If you don't do that, you'll get a less dynamic and creative film environment in our country. Private financing is, of course, part of the picture here. The right will be busy facilitating an increased private funding share. But it is far from being so comprehensive that there will be real counterweight to public funds. When the Government now commits to bringing together the main actors of the Film House into the new film institute, they follow a long line in film policy where the objective has been more efficient use of the resources. This is supported by the right, but there is reason to call out a warning when the concentration of knowledge and money gradually becomes so large that the new institution will completely dominate the Norwegian film landscape. Efficiency is good, but we also need to remember that it's the framework conditions for an art subject we're talking about. Then we also have to make sure that the environment has the necessary internal dynamics, that contradictions exist, and that alternatives have a room to look for. The message's discussion of this is, in the Right's view, not problematic enough, and the Government's prescription on how to handle power concentration is not very promising. Stronger political governance, governance and tighter shoots between departments in the new institution do not move by the fact that loyalty bands will go to the same institution and that actors are recruited from environments that are all aimed at the same level of funding. Stronger political governance is also a step in the wrong direction in relation to the professional foundation and the desire for distance. A little reluctance, however, can be involved in a stronger coordination of the activities of the Film House. This requires, however, a deliberate effort to contribute to strong environments outside Oslo that can contribute to national diversity a vital industry needs. This is where it fails. Despite many beautiful words about strong regionally based environments, action is taken that will really work the opposite way. The most important relationship here is the restrictions on the use of State resources by regional film funds on feature films. This would threaten the film funds and weaken their central role as a production anchor in each region. The participation of county councils in these funds has been largely motivated by a business idea that film production in a social account brings with it more than the investments and subsidies that come from locally. This is a financial contribution through the purchase of goods and services. In addition, it is also about the marketing of places where well-known films are recorded, i.e. a travel life perspective. Both of these effects are closely related to feature movies. The restriction here would therefore strongly challenge the county contributions. As participation in Norwegian films is highly marginalised, this means that the funds have to convert niche production into advertising and television, where this is not combined with feature films, or into foreign productions. There are safe options here. The question is whether the funds we have are robust enough to handle such a conversion. They are all newly launched, have limited resources and, to a significant extent, a competence that is related just to feature films. To the right, the Communication should have gone deeper into alternatives and explained how the challenges of limiting the state share of the total cost of a film could have been solved. In the case of bets on foreign films, the regional funds are likely to be too small to attract such productions on a particular scale from an economic point of view. Here the proposed incentive scheme is a positive contribution, but probably too small for it to have significant effect. The right had preferred a fee-based reimbursement scheme here. The Norwegian Film Commission’s activities in Bergen are also important for obtaining foreign output to Norway. This is now being proposed integrated into the new activities of the Film House. I notice with interest that the representative Knutsen thinks that the film commission can still be in Bergen. This is an interesting development in this case, but it does not depend on the fact that the Film Commission will continue to be subject to the large government body. The right notes that the line normally followed by the film commissions around the world, namely that they should operate with the highest possible integrity in relation to the national film industry. Foreign producers should know that the Commission is acting on their behalf and that it is not working on the basis of substantial motives of any kind. The right considers, therefore, that the Norwegian Film Commission must continue its own activities and be located in Bergen to the advantage of it. Moving from Bergen in conjunction with the restrictions imposed on FUZZ appears to be an estimate of the environment in Norway that should have the best conditions to be opposed to the environment in Oslo. It's a shame you're not moving in the right direction for the environment in Bergen. Not least in view of the fact that regional funds are now practically referred to in order to increase the production of televisions, it is also appropriate to signal more strongly that the NRC should release a larger proportion of its output. On several occasions, the right has pointed out the importance of the NRK strengthening its role as a national contracting entity and locomotive in the development of the Norwegian film and television industry. Therefore, on a general basis, the right also wants the NRK to outsource more tasks. This is the theme we're going to get back to, when we're going to deal with the case on the NRK. Right also notes that the Government, not surprisingly, wants a continued state involvement in the Filmpark, Norsk Filmstudio, at Jar. The message here describes that some of the studio activities are not profitable, while some of the other activities have a performance that can make it possible to run the whole together, without State grants. To the right, a person should be careful with such a mixture. Firstly, it is not satisfactory for the enterprise to continue to carry on with the ‘like in the load’. What finances what will easily become a source of conflict and an unpleasant element in any annual settlement. In addition to this, there is a unclear framework for pricing and contracting tasks that can very quickly distort competition for other suppliers in the industry. We already know this is a problem in Jar. In the right, it would have been better to call a spade a spade – separate the parts that do not pay and drive them with government money, after which the other can be sold to private operators. Right supports the grip taken in the digitisation of the cinemas. We have great expectations that this will strengthen the cinemas and the film-cultural environment across the country. The right believes that work for children and young people can be carried on well as today, with two actors in the field. This applies in particular to those performing cinematographic work, such as festivals, film production for children, etc. With two institutions, the actors have several places to go, maybe with a slightly different profile. Now that the majority are probably winning by putting everything into one fold, I hope at least that there are schemes that do not distance the work of children and young people from the film institute that will now dominate the Norwegian film environment, and that are more than just the largest resources. At the previous crossroads, when Norwegian film was shut down, great emphasis was placed on the need to strengthen producer environments. This is still an important task and should be underlying when it comes to concrete policy formulations in the various areas. At this point, the message is very good. So the right wants a different course in film policy. Our course will be motivated by the spread of power and diversity. It means a stronger regional investment, more institutions and larger businesses out of Oslo, more tasks out of the TV stations, especially from the NRC, and a stronger focus on cinematographic activities across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1590	Norwegian film has had a very positive development over a long time. Many Norwegian films are produced each year, and Norwegian cinema visits have seen strong growth. The audience's attitude to Norwegian film is much more positive, especially among young people. The government continues to support and continue the Norwegian film success through St.meld. No 22 for 2006-2007, the Wizard, taking a comprehensive approach covering and identifying the entire value chain in the film field, where the various central and regional schemes/institutions are conceived into a coordinated, complementary model. This represents an organisational innovation and a strengthening of film environments across the country, in line with the stated objectives of the field through the Cultural Promise, the Soria Moria Declaration and a targeted, offensive political commitment to the film field. The Government wishes to step up State subsidies on film production and review the State instruments to ensure that the subsidies are used efficiently and in a targeted manner. In St. prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 stated that a new evaluation of the grant schemes would be carried out within five years. In the light of several reports which mainly referred to the State grant schemes and other economic instruments, the Ministry of Culture and the Church also requested a review of the organisation of the instrument in the film sector. In the autumn of 2006, a selection was therefore set up under the direction of Kristenn Einarsson to propose the organisation of the State instruments in the field of film. The main principles of division of tasks between the country and industry are continued and further clarified in the submitted message. In this way, the overall film policy is taken care of by government and corruption, while the artistic content of film production is defined from a cinematic point of view. The prerequisite for coordinating the instrument is that it must not contribute to overpowering too few hands. It is very important, as many have been involved here in the past, to follow up the measures taken to counteract power concentration. I would also like to stress from the SV's side that it is clear that the Norwegian Film Commission can still be located in Bergen. Building sites must be preserved as they are important cultural arenas around the country. It is important that children and young people should be given priority in film policy. The film message clearly defines children and young people as target groups, and Film&Kino is intended to be the overall responsibility for this, including: due to its large network of viewing arenas throughout the country. The same applies to the establishment of festival support, which is also to be financed through Film & Cinema. It is important that film production is now facilitated throughout the country. The regional film centres and the regional film funds, together with the central arrangements, will maintain the entire value chain within the film field. One of the most important issues of cultural policy is that cultural life in general should have a good gender balance, so that both women’s and men’s artistic and cultural expressions are reflected and told. Several measures have been proposed to bring more women into all levels of Norwegian film. It's a good ambition that by 2010 there will be at least 40 pst. women in key positions in Norwegian films. In the field of film, there is today a clear overweight of men in important positions, which is very special, because today many women are trained in film. SV also believes that it is very important to make Norwegian films available to hearing impaired people. This will easily be implemented with new technologies and digitisation. SV is pleased that the goal is to produce at least 20 long films each year, and that 25 pst. the cinema search shall be in Norwegian films. We will see a future meeting for the film field in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1628	It is a public task to ensure that in a small country like Norway, there is a supply of films and other audiovisual productions that reflect our history, our culture and our language. In order to achieve this, substantial support for Norwegian films is needed. The Christian People's Party is committed to the main objective of the message, which is to ensure a good and diverse audiovisual supply based on Norwegian culture, Norwegian language and Norwegian social conditions. The Christian People's Party also agrees with the proposal for coordination of the instrumentation in order to achieve this objective, with the exception of the submission of the Norwegian Film Commission. We present proposals together with the other opposition parties, where we ask the Government to ensure that the Norwegian Film Commission will also become an independent unit with its head seats in Bergen in the future. Keeping up with a living national film and television production is an important part of the preservation of Norwegian culture, but it is also an industry. Over the last 20 to 25 years, there has been an increasing international focus on the relationship between culture, nutrition and economic development. The Storting message on culture and industry from the Bondevik II government reveals the value creation that is taking place in the cultural sector. We are experiencing a growth in culture-based economic development. It is gratifying to note that many, not least locally, are now very concerned about a closer approach between culture and industry. In this context, I would like to ask for the cross-sectoral action plan on culture and nutrition that the Christian People's Party and a majority in Stortinget put forward proposals to address the growing awareness of culture and nutrition. It is important to have a live film production in the districts. The regional film centres are important institutions that secure film productions that reflect people and the environment in the many countries in which we live. I think these are measures that can have a positive cultural and industrial impact, but only if the regions themselves invest in different film activities, so that the access to capital to the film industry is increased. The focus on film and other audiovisual productions in the regions is on further developing a high-skilled local film environment, which will also strengthen and further develop the Norwegian film industry. The Christian People's Party believes that the regional film effort is an important part of the comprehensive national film policy. The purpose of the government proposal is to trigger several local funds. The Christian People's Party is therefore in agreement with the Government that the state funds and the matching regional funds are not to be used to finance films that receive production support from Norwegian Film Fund. In order to ensure local anchoring, it must also, in the Christian People's Party's view, be a premise that government funds do not exceed a maximum of 50 pst. of the total cost of the projects. This will ensure that they increase the volume of media for film actions. In addition, such a scheme will provide synergies for business and employment in the regions. The Christian People's Party is also in agreement with the Government that, in order to pool competences on restoration and preservation of films, responsibility should be added to the National Library, rather than a shared responsibility, such as today, between the National Library and the Norwegian Film Institute. The professional priorities of which films to be restored must be done in close cooperation with the Norwegian Film Institute. Broadcasting law protects children from advertising in Norwegian television and radio stations that have their broadcasts from Norway. The Christian People's Party thinks it should be advertising-free sons especially for the youngest children. Besides, cinema is a stronger medium than television, and since children and young people are being subjected to ever-increasing commercial pressure, the Christian People's Party believes that there should be some advertising-free zones. That is why we want to introduce a ban on advertising in connection with films for children aged seven and down. The Christian People's Party is concerned that everyone, regardless of their ability to function, should have access to and enjoy movies in cinema. For that reason, we think it should be a requirement that Norwegian films in cinema too are the lyrics. The Christian People's Party will continue the system of subtitling Norwegian films in cinema, and believes it is important that this work is followed up further, so that everyone who has the challenges of understanding what is being said gets a subtitles that is much better than the one that is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1651	The introduction to the section of the comments that the entire Committee is behind begins with the following: «The Committee, is of the opinion that film is one of the most important cultural expressions of our time.» I believe this is an assessment that the Committee shares with many others, and it says a little about the importance of the part of cultural life that is on our agenda today. [[...]] The centre party is aware that we have a forward-looking policy for the film area, and thinks that the message we are handling today marks an even more offensive course for the important film area. With this message the government has set a bold goal for film policy and shown concrete actions to achieve the goal. Increased production of Norwegian films, enhanced competence and economy in the industry, public awareness, quality focus, equality and access for all are some of the objectives that the Government has seen and to which the message describes the way forward. The government is signaling a coordination of resources in the field of film to ensure a more targeted effort. The central party will, like the other parties, stress that this must not help to accumulate too much power on too few hands. The new Film Institute shall be jointly and severally responsible for the tasks of the Norwegian Film Foundation, the Norwegian Film Institute and Norwegian Film Development. It has been a fear that the new organisation, where the Norwegian Film Commission is placed under the new Film Institute, will lead to the Commission moving from Bergen to Oslo. There is absolutely no automation in such a development, and the Central Party assumes that this does not happen. We think the new organisation is a sensible coordination and strengthening of the competences we have when it comes to attracting foreign film production to Norway today. Furthermore, it has been suggested that the National Library should be given the archiving and restoration responsibility for films, and that FILM & KINO should be given additional responsibility for children and young people and festival support. It has been particularly important for the Centre Party to ensure that all cinemas are included in the digitalisation lift, and that one in this way ensures a high quality cinema throughout the country also for the future. It is important for the Centre Party that children and young people across the country have access to high-quality films. Here you can find another important measure from the Government's side, namely the Norwegian Film Purchasing Scheme for the People's Libraries. I mentioned earlier that films are one of the most important cultural expressions of our time, and then it goes without saying that access to Norwegian films also plays an important role in identity and language. The Parties further share the objective of coordinating the aid schemes for film production and distinguishing between incentive schemes based on empowerment/development, artistic-based support schemes and marketing/launch incentives. The center party is aware that the activity that happens in the film environment around the country is going to have ringing effects. It is important that the country shows the willingness to support the work of the regions and thus the development of competences and the production of regional film centres. We are in the same division of functions between regional centres and regional funds that are outlined in the message. We believe, however, that there must also be possible cooperation and synergies between regional centres and other actors, such as those involved. regional funds. The central party further argues that it is right that the state funds of the fissile layer representing the regional funds should not be used for long films if the long film projects are supported by Norsk Film Foundation. However, the regional funds should not be used for this type of leadership, and we are satisfied with that. Finally, let me commend the Council of State for lifting the gender equality work in Norwegian film, by setting entirely concrete targets for this field in the Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1668	It has been said very well from all over the things about which there is a broad consensus in the Storting, and about which we all support. The film, which is an important expression of art and an expression of opinion in society today, is widely agreed upon. What's interesting is that we can see that the film evolves in relation to the quality and the degree of art and culture dissemination, but also in relation to the fact that it is easier for more people to use it as an art dissemination and use it as a media. This means that even today’s young people — they see us in YouTube at regular intervals — use the film media as a medium of art, culture and opinion in a completely different way from what was possible when I went to school. There is a lot of good in the message, and there is also a lot of agreement about it, but in my minutes I naturally do not choose to go into it. What worries me -- in line with others -- with the grips of the message, is a very large concentration of power, a cleanup that I think is going to go beyond diversity, and assume that there is also counterpower in an environment. This isn't about the fight that's going to be too much in Oslo, I'll rarely be there, or the fight to keep something in Bergen. This isn't about geographic location, it's about the power structure within an artistic expression, where I'm starting to become seriously concerned that we rationalize ourselves away from diversity and rationalize ourselves away from counterpower. The regional funds were there just to be the regional power and the counterpower. Limiting their power within the film world I think is a pretty scary way to go. We are calling for a national management plan in relation to the steps taken with the Film Archive. The left is not that we are opposed to the role of the National Library, but there is a lack of understanding – as I see it – about the role of the Film Archive and the way they have worked. Not only is this based on donations, it is also built on a lot of sprawl, hard work and collaboration between producers and archives, between the competences that are there, and the desire for, for example, to re-publish something. This isn't just about a storage, it's actually about having contact with the producers and the market, and that's the competence that I think the Film Archive has today. You can physically place something exactly where you want to, but having power and competence one place is important, without connecting it to the other power structures within the archive side. The Film Commission has talked about many of them. I don't think the point is whether it should be in Bergen; it's the distribution of power that's the point. It is then assumed that someone has been allowed to say that it will still be in Bergen today, but that is not the main point behind Left's support for the proposal. We're also skeptical of the collection of power in relation to the cultural school bag. Being able to have two actors that focus on both the consumer and the manufacturer in relation to children and young people, I think is important. So a little comment about equality. The left seems very many of the measures, and especially the ambitions within them, are very good, but I'm very sceptical about the use of quotaing – which I'm going to say was my party that invented – within the art and cultural world. I think it's strange that you're very busy collecting all the power one place, then using quotaing as an instrument when power fails. I think you get equality by spreading power, by being able to spread opportunities to form counterpower, which actually makes it possible for many of the ladies who need a push to move forward. They don't get that by hearing that they're being auctioned. They get that by saying that we have some counterpowers in the system. Otherwise, the left is also very much for everything that has been said about what is done with subtitles. We are very sceptical about the advertising press, especially about children, and at that point we have supported the Christian People's Party, which we have been with in several other matters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1688	Film is one of the art forms that create the widest interest, and that reaches most. Film can be great art, it can grab us emotionally, open new horizons, challenge and engage us. That's why it's an important cultural policy goal that we have the opportunity to watch good films in our own language, from our own reality and with our own stories. That is why we need a strong and good Norwegian film industry. It's going great in Norwegian movies right now. The audience flows to Norwegian films, already have more than one million purchased tickets for Norwegian films in cinema this year, new talents arrive and Norwegian films win awards abroad. But we're going to get even higher. The film release sets ambitious goals on behalf of Norwegian film and film policy. We need to reach more people with Norwegian movies. The ambition is that every fourth ticket in the cinemas is for Norwegian movies. That means about three million visitors. We're going to make more movies, we're going to export more movies, and we're going to have higher quality in Norwegian movies – amazing, concrete goals. It is significant that when we have a debate on this, there is a broad consensus; it is the largest and most ambitious effort on film ever made in Norway. I am also pleased that a joint committee agrees to merge the state-owned companies Norsk Filminstitutt, Norsk Filmfond and Norwegian film development into a new Norwegian film institute. Here I'm a little uncertain about what to talk about in terms of power concentration, because as I read the setting, a broad majority of people support this aggregation to one film institution. By combining the forces, we avoid overlapping responsibilities, there will be one institution to deal with for users, and we can coordinate our efforts much better. In a small film country like Norway, after all, we need to make good use of government and public funds, unbureaucratic and simple. So it's said that there's going to be stronger political governance, because it's the message that we want to keep a system where it's us as politicians and awarding authorities that decide the main pots of money for film production, for the activities of the Film Institute, and for film development. But that's exactly how it is today. The same pots determine today how much the Film Fund should have, how much the Film Institute should have, and how much the film development should have. But instead of doing it in three different institutions, we do it within one institution. So there will be no more concentration of power than today, or more political governance. And of course, we're not going to put ourselves in what kind of movie is being made. Apart from children, young people and documentaries, film consultants are the professionally responsible, just like today. So here I think it must be some kind of misunderstanding. Of course, it's the money that matters if we get a bet on a movie. We've increased the film budgets since we took over 60 million. SEK – 60 million. kr. There is reason to remember that from 2001 to 2005, the film budgets were cut by 17 million. kr, so here it's not just talking about a much faster pace, but about a completely different direction. Now we're going to have the whole country with us. There is a strong interest in Norway in contributing to film production. It's positive. That is why only in 2007 did we increase support for the regional film funds by 5 million. kr. In the past, there may have been no restrictions on state resources, as there was virtually no State resources to limit them. But what we're saying is that this money in the regional film funds can be used freely for long films, as opposed to what it was before. When Olemic Thommessen's party was in government, it was forbidden to spend the money on long film at all. They were to be used for short films and documentary films. Now you can spend the money on long films, as you like, with one exception: not on those movies that already get government money. Of course, the local money can be used freely, including for the films supported by the Norwegian Film Fund. The reason why we do it this way is that we don't need more bureaucracy to distribute government funds to the same movies. It's really surprising that the Right Party and the Advance Party are opposed to an unbureaucratic and sensible use of state resources. Moreover, I refer to the article by Tove Karoline Knutsen, which described the role of the regions in an excellent way. So finally, about the Norwegian Film Commission: it's probably indicative that the opposition in terms of history's greatest film bet is limited to spending its main time on an institution that has two positions. Two positions in Bergen are what centralisation stands and falls on – not because they are to be moved from Bergen to Oslo, but because they are to be part of the institution that is to be the great impact force. If that's what's the big appeal point to the film message, I don't think we've bombed so terribly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1709	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1712	That's not just the anchor point. It sounds like the Council of State actually thinks it's the location of the Norwegian Film Commission that's the central point. The central point was highlighted by both me and the representative Thommessen, that the Norwegian Film Commission should be released from the new institute. I would like to hear if the Council of State believes that the Norwegian Film Commission should be merged with the Institute – that it now indicates that it will be in Bergen, but thus within the new Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1721	All of this is unusually strange. Firstly, as the Communication states, and as the Committee has agreed, I believe that the Film Commission will become part of the new institution. But whether those positions should be in Bergen, or whether they should be in Oslo, or whether they should be in Tromsø, it will be up to the new institution to decide. We cannot sit here both in the Stortinget and in political government and at the same time direct two positions to one place or another. That's what the new institution has to decide. I have nothing against it being in Bergen. But now I'm going to add that the person who becomes responsible for film production is probably the person who should be least in the city where the institution is located, because he is going to travel all over the world and attract international film productions to Norway. Betting Bergen as a film town, which is an important bet, is about a lot of things. It's about getting state money to the regional funds, it's about Bergen International Film Festival, it's about Bergen Cinema, it's of course about the film fund FUZZ, it's about the West Norwegian Film Centre, it's about TV 2, it's about independent production companies that need increased investment in film. We're doing that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1730	With regard to the leadership of the regional funds in the past, I think the Council of State should look a little bit into the memory of the description he just gave. It is true that there has been a discussion of whether there should be a lead on the state resources. The regional funds have never been the leaders. The county councils spend their money on whatever they want, and so will they in the future. In that sense, there is no release in relation to what the Council of State adds up to. But there's been a discussion all along. The size has generated a desire to obtain regional film funds that can operate according to the Trollhättan model – a bit like that plus/minus. Government parties have been involved in committee comments all the time. Among other things, in the Budget indent. S. No 2 for 2004-2005 said: ‘The Committee is also aware that, for this reason’ — the use of State resources for infrastructure — ‘the Ministry has made some headway in relation to Film 3. The Committee considers that it is necessary to continue to seek out schemes which can function satisfactorily in the light of the objectives set out by the Committee.’.» So it keeps going. I'm sure the Council of State remembers the story of both these remarks and others. It's something quite different than what you've come up with now. Now you've given up finding the good solutions that we've been asking for for for four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1744	Right in government for four years. In all four years – to the extent that it was supported by Film 3, which came in gradually, and which has been greatly escalated after the government change, and which will be increased in the future – there was therefore no way to spend the money on feature films at all. Now there's an opportunity to spend the money on as many feature films as you like, including the state funds, except for those films that already receive government funding through the Norwegian Film Fund. That must be a great improvement, as the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen described. When it comes to introducing a reimbursement scheme, the Right, as far as I remember, was against that when they were in government. Now they say you should have a charging scheme instead. You were against it that time. I would like to welcome you there. And then I have to say that it's a paradox that you criticize the Government for operating with centralization when not a single thing is moved to Oslo. But at the same time, the opposition to the only really great decentralization, namely that the Film Archive is being moved to Mo in Rana. One cannot both criticize the Government for being in favour of centralization, and then vote against decentralization itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1753	I think the Council of State must have misunderstood a little, because in the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we ask «The Government to ensure that the Norwegian Film Commission continues to become an independent entity with its headquarters in Bergen». Then we have not in any way accepted the inclusion and management of it by the Norwegian Film Institute. But I have another question for the Council of State. I have had some enquiries from the regional film funds. They tell me that they have met with the Council of State, where they have been suggested that a solution should be found so that the regional film funds can actually use resources for feature films – including the state part. Then I wonder if the Council of State can confirm to me that there have been such meetings, and that the regional film funds have been suggested that a solution should be found in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1760	Let me first say that I acknowledge that the opposition has a different view on whether the film commission should merge with the new film institute. It's okay, there we disagree. But my point is that this is just about an institution with two years' work, so it's kind of not the fall of the Norwegian film industry if it goes up or down with centralization. So, about the regional film funds. Well, we've found a solution. The requirement in the film announcement was that there should be matching funds in addition to the state that should be bound not to be used for those films that already receive state support. It has changed and said that well, that's just the government funds you need, not the matching funds. This is a major improvement from today. So you can use all the local funds for all kinds of movies, and you can use state funds for everyone, except for those who are already getting money from the Norwegian Film Foundation. That the Progress Party of all will be involved in building many institutions in Norway that will make 25 feature films a year, and that will distribute the same state money, I think is strange. I think it's very nice if we get a competition between the regions to attract film productions, but then it should happen by generating more and more local funds to draw these productions there, not by spreading government funds through much more bureaucracy. In fact, I should think that the Progress Party agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1771	The description given by the Council of State in relation to how the regional funds were, in fact, directed from the department is, at best, upresis. A film was made, for example. 'Pitbullterje', where Film 3 made a success, I say, of investing in a movie that threw itself away. It was a film funded mainly by Norsk Filmfonds, and it was solved. It was unclear how this should be handled, and I still think it seems unclear. It could have been in-interesting to hear what the Council of State is justifying why these state resources should not be used. Is it, as he was in the middle of it, this thing with inauguration -- I think I've seen a quote from the Council of State earlier where he's talking about raising funds -- or is there any other, more formal reasons behind it? So the representative Knutsen says that government funds can be used for the development of projects. Does it mean, for example, the fact that a script is developed by state resources will not be in the way of obtaining funding from Norsk Filmfond?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1780	The state has a tool to distribute government funds to feature films, and it's Norsk Filmfond – it's going to be the new film institute. Here it is either a 50-50 scheme or an advisory arrangement that provides money for up to 25 films per year. So it's very important to get even more money for Norwegian movies. It is an important contributor to regional film funds through municipal and municipal funds, as well as stimulating private investment. Then we say that we even have to support with state money. They can freely use all their local resources, and the state funds, with the sole limitation that the state cannot be spent on the films that we already give money to from the Norwegian Film Foundation, or the new film institute. So it's a much better situation than today. You can have co-productions abroad, you can invest in long films that are not supported by Norsk Filmfonds, and you can use the local funds to invest in the films supported by Norsk Filmfonds. I do not understand that this should be unclear. This is a major improvement. At the end of the day, that's the amount of money we spend on regional film funds, which is going to be critical. To imagine that the main task of these regional film funds is to use state resources to lure the various films from the Norwegian Film Fund support scheme into the districts are wasted resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1789	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1793	Film-Noreg is in good time. With that message, the Government has submitted, and we are now dealing with, the time is getting even better. After we took over the power of government, the bet on Norwegian film has taken a big turn. We have increased the budget significantly after it was cut in the previous period. Now we get a message confirming the course chosen by the Government, a message that attracts great and ambitious goals on behalf of the film industry throughout the country and on behalf of us who are cinematographic. The government suggests that there are more children and young people who get to express themselves by experiencing movies now than before. There are an increasing number of producers, directors, scriptwriters and others who work for more and better Norwegian films than ever before. There are high-quality people who take their education at Lillehammer and get into the industry. And not least, there is a goal that even more people will experience even more good Norwegian movies in cinema. What we think is the joy of the film message, as well as much else, is that one here takes a holistic approach to ensure that film, both as a cultural expression and as a industry, is made available to the whole country. This means that there are several people who are allowed to express themselves, or hidden talents are discovered. That means that we get told stories from all over the country on movies, the numbers are getting bigger. And that means that the will and the ability to bet on films like nutrition is being used. It's either in Lillehammer and inland, it's in Bergen or Stavanger, in Middle Norway, or in Målselv and North Norway – it's all a strength for Norwegian film. In the previous period, as we are now the government party, we had to press and work out the willingness to bet on films in the regions. That is what we are now following in this message and in this setting. I mean, everything now is in the way that the regions of the country that are willing and good enough can achieve great results that will delight the film environment and the film audience. Where the previous government was acting and reluctant, we are now taking hold. It has been a long wish from the regional film funds that they should also be able to invest in feature films. That's what they're allowed to do. For example, until now, Film 3 at Lillehammer has only been able to use state resources for the production of short films and documentaries and infrastructure measures. Now the regional funds with this setting and the policy that the Government is pursuing can invest in all formats, whether they are short films or documentaries, TV dramas, co-productions with the rest of the world or feature films. The only limitation is that one should not first use government money from the new film institute and then come with more government money from the regions. Otherwise, there is no limitation, and movies that are not supported by the Video Fund can be freely supported just as one wishes. The regions have therefore been given an opportunity to make their own, independent cultural policy and artistic choices. It is also a strength for regional investment. It's also the case that we're now establishing an incentive scheme for foreign production coming to Norway. Norway is a high-cost country, and fortunately for it. But that makes us, in order to compete, dependent on some carrot, some bait. With our nature and our culture, we are an attractive location for many, and not least there will be many places in District Norway. The previous government never got in place such a scheme. Now let's do that. There are going to be more invested crowns in Norway, not least in the areas where a production takes place – there are important industrial developments. But it also means good marketing of Norway abroad, and that means not least an additional strengthening of the film environment in Norway. The incentive scheme has a lot of positive effects that we're going to take with us. We also receive support for regional film centres, so that it can develop even more talent, more competence, a greater focus on children and young people and an even better basis for Norwegian film. There's a lot of willingness to bet on movies regionally and locally. That's good. For this reason, it is right to establish a mechanism to match state resources with at least the same amount of local and regional resources. Then a person who really wants to bet, and a prop for more means of film total. We're all interested in that. The film industry, especially locally, has been busy with it. It is now also being implemented. With the film message we're about to deal with, the government has once added to the most ambitious film policy, not least the regional bet on films in Norway. The goals are the most ambitious, and I think we'll see that the results will be the best for Norwegian movies when this policy is put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1823	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1826	Christian People's Party and Left write in the setting here that they are concerned with a ban on advertising cinemas for children under seven years of age. We made such a proposal in connection with the treatment of Ot.prp. No 72 for 2005-2006. SV promoted this proposal, by the undersigned, four years ago, it was well. It was up to this government to deal with because the former Minister of Culture of the Christian People's Party would not deal with it. We are now looking at a case in point that the Christian People's Party is promoting the same proposals that SV made in the previous period. Of course, we're satisfied with that. We also refer in the setting to the government parties' treatment of Ot.prp. No 72, Innst.O. No 15 for 2006-2007. It says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all the non-participating members of the Advance Party and the Right, consider that a ban on advertising before viewing children’s films on cinemas can help to reduce the commercial pressure on children. Cinema is a powerful medium that can have a major impact on children. Another plurality, all the unbecoming members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, indicates that the Minister of Culture, in response to the Committee, says that the Government will continue to follow developments when it comes to advertising in children's views. [[attachment]] Furthermore, studies should be carried out on the economic impact of a possible future ban on the use of quinones. The majority are aware that the digitisation of cinemas will have an impact on this issue. This plurality asks the Government to return to the Storting in its own form." I believe that the comment of the Left and Christian People's Party in today's position is well taken care of by the treatment we had of Ot.prp. No Seventy-two. I guess the government is following this up, and the government is coming back to Stortinget. I would also like to say that I am very pleased that we are now receiving a support scheme for film festivals. I would then like to point out the Animation Festival in Fredrikstad, which this committee unanimously said in the previous period and during this period should receive support. So I'm very, very happy that we now get that kind of support scheme, and expect the animation festival to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1846	I noticed that the council thought that the move of the film archive to Mo in Rana was like the great grip for decentralization. From our point of view, the point is not to add up to a common storage system in Mo in Rana, but the whole point of our objection at that point is the professional anchoring you have in relation to watching movies. There I think a very good idea has been arrived at, which I hope the Council of State will pick up, namely that we should have an overall strategy for restoring films in Norway, including what is already in Mo in Rana, because there are significant amounts, and there is little to it. Otherwise I have to say that once again I am amazed at the central party's relationship with centralization in terms of taking care of regions. It's a recurring exercise. Here is the representative Sande panegyrisk in relation to a message that is thus a dramatic power concentration in Oslo, which makes all the arrows point to Oslo, which strikes down perhaps the most important parts of what should be the growth factor in the regions, which refers the regional effort to become a question of government appropriations in the future, rather than creating environments that can stand on their own feet and represent their own programme thinking. It's the party that promised to move activity out of town, and to strengthen the regions. We'll see that in a case-by-case way: we're going to break the regions. You put yourself on a centralization line, and it's striking. Here, at least, there was an opportunity to make use of some points, to ensure growth and to give growth opportunities – because it is not just a question of money, it is also a question of structure. The importance of regional funds, in addition to all the measures previously outlined by the Council of State, in the form of centres and local film-cultural actions, lies precisely in the fact that it is in the funds that one has the germ to get its own programme thinking, a separate funding base – short and well-known local-based processes that do not necessarily follow the whip after the trends represented by the Oslo environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1855	I have to admit that there is a mystery to me what the representative Thommes thinks when he says that the regional bet contained in the film message is bad. It's just to say once and for all: there's more money in the regional funds. The regional funds can operate in all formats, including long-term films, with both state and regional funding, and have the opportunity to tell their own regional stories. It's solid. It's black on white in the film message and in the majority's comment. I want to say a little bit about the National Library. The film message is intended to transfer the collection and conservation functions of the film heritage from the Norwegian Film Institute to the National Library. It threatens the majority of the committee, the government parties, are right – also the Christian People's Party. There is a need to clarify the division of responsibilities between these establishments. It is the new film institute that will be responsible for forward-looking communication, while the National Library will have competence in digitisation, restoration and conservation, and thus be responsible for the collection and preservation of film and videograms. They already have such a responsibility for all publicly available documents. The national library also has very good physical conditions for working with films, including: two good storage magazines, one for nitrate film and one securing magazine in mountains for acetate film, magnetic tapes and polyester. The National Library also has its only cinematographic restoration laboratory, a laboratory such as the U.S. The Norwegian Film Institute uses. There are ten people who have special competence for storage and laboratory work who are employed in the National Library, and both the Film Institute and the library use international professionals when you need it. It is also the case that both the National Library and the Norwegian Film Institute are approved for membership of the International Federation of Film Archives, thus fulfilling the professional international requirements for such work. We believe that the two institutions will be able to have good and fruitful cooperation in the future. We are pleased with the decision to, for example: the order of selected films to be restored will be taken into close cooperation between the National Library and the new Film Institute, on the basis of some criteria and priorities outlined in the 2001 rolling picture protection plan in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1866	It was Representative Espen Johnsen who made me draw for a three-minute post. I think most people might think of using summer nights for other things than sitting here and discussing this, but when the representative Johnsen comes up with the claim that the previous government was the action lamb when it came to film politics, I'm quite stated, because the previous government was absolutely busy with film politics and saw the significance of it. What this government has presented has been commended by the Christian People's Party today. We don't agree on everything, but we think it's very good in what this government has done when it comes to film. But then there are also things that the government party and the Workers' Party promised when they were in opposition, which they have not fulfilled. We haven't pulled it out today, because we know that when one sits in government, it may be demanding to have everything one wants. But the representative Johnsen developed this with foreign productions; it's a step in the right direction, what's happening. It wasn't like the Bondevik II government didn't want to give anything in that field. But what history shows – with the options that were available – was that the opposition ordered the previous government to send a big message, with a three-month deadline. In December, during the budgetary procedure, they said that 1 March should have a big message. Trond Giske hasn't produced a single big message in three months after they came to power. It says itself that things take time. And it also turns out that when you get such a short deadline, a non-delivery gets as much as you want. A small reply to the Council of State in connection with a debate that has been held in the past: the Culture Committee has dealt with about all the issues that the Government has raised. But it's a matter that came to the committee on 15 May, a fairly comprehensive matter that we haven't been dealt with before the summer, because it was very late. Otherwise, it is not right that the committee has had so much work pressure that we have not been able to deal with the issues that we have. This committee has taken its job seriously, deals with matters thoroughly and properly. But when the Council of State comes extremely late with thick, comprehensive issues, we expect that the Council of State will have a defence and proper treatment and not an emergency treatment – when we see that it takes a long time to get matters up to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1879	The committee certainly knows me as a very patient and calm person. But when the representative Espen Johnsen made his contribution, it was not free for me to almost jump in the chair, and to be so late, I was also terribly provoked. What the representative Johnsen said, at least what I got with me, was that it was us – and then of course it was the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party he referred to – that fought out the regional film funds. Then I think, with all due respect for Espen Johnsen, that he actually has to read the story. He should probably also read in the budgets of the previous period. There are comments on the regional film funds from other than the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. He should also read the film stuff we had in the last period, where he will see that there was a majority of the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the SV and the Advance Party that actually took decisions that we sent to the Government. It would never have happened if we hadn't had a good cooperation and got together on film. There were no red tabs and flags that fought out any regional film funds; there were quite others that fought them out. Tove Karoline Knutsen says that regional film funds can now be used in all genres. Then there is something I have not understood. The report states that the regional film funds can be involved in long-term films, that is correct, but not if these long-term films are supported by the state. The state money that the regional funds receive cannot go into long-term films that receive government funding. If there's anything I've misunderstood here now, I hope that the Council of State or possibly Tove Karoline Knutsen will clarify that misunderstanding. This is what is also misunderstood in the regional film funds. – So I would have appreciated that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1891	It's almost tempting to compare the representative Thommes' post with a broken dairies in the way that it contained pipes and empty thoughts. It's the way that one complains to the Center for a huge movement of power from the regions to Oslo. What does this movement of power consist of? Then Thommess must come up and be concrete. The setting makes it clear that Thommessen supports the coordination that is taking place in the new film institute, so it cannot be what the representative is looking for. It is not such that the government weakens the regional environments. No, she's strengthening them. What is Right's answer? Well, it's actually putting down one of the institutions that in the new film policy is meant to be an active role that contributes to the regional film funds, the county council. It would be interesting to hear from the representative Thommessen who will take that role when the regional level is gone, and to see to it that the regional film funds also have a regional economic involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1900	The President would like to point out that comparing co-representatives with closed dairies is hardly a good parliamentary speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1903	Let me first start by taking a strong distance from the representative Espen Johnsen said in his post here instead. The previous government was not at all paralysed in its film policy. It was quite effective to cut the film budgets in Norway by 17 million. kr from 2001 to 2005, so action paralysis cannot be called at all. I really don't think it was bad will from the Minister of Culture at the time, although I don't think it was film that was closest to her, but it was a brutal reality, with a finance minister who wasn't willing to bet on culture, with the result that you had to cut it there for good. So a little bit about what makes part of these debates about culture in the Great Britain get quite excited. I think that's simply because the opposition has, to some extent, been on a line where you go to the pulpit and claim almost anything, without documentation. When Olemic Thommessen goes up here and says that this is a dramatic centralization of power to the Oslo region, he has to substantiate what this dramatic centralization consists of. It can't be the merger of the Film Foundation, the Film Institute and the Film Development, because that's right for. That's not what lies in the dramatic concentration of power. Where we hold back a little bit of power concentration, there is where we're going to have political control over the money pots for film production, film culture and film development, respectively, as we have today. But there's actually Right disagree. There they believe that power should be centralised even more strongly, for it will be governed by the Film Institute itself. Can't that be what we've done with the Film Archive, because right here stands for a line where it's still going to be in Oslo, and not moved to Mo in Rana. So it can't be what it's about like the dramatic centralization. It cannot be the regional funds, because there will be no more centralisation, there will be less centralization. Ten million. kr more has received the funds since we took over, they will get even more. They get more room for action to invest in feature films. There is only one constraint. The limitation that has occurred in the past that you could not spend state money on feature films is being removed. The only limitation is that you can't spend that money on movies that have already received money from Oslo. So it can't be that centralization either, because it's a decentralization. Then it is likely that this is the fact that one of the film positions in the Norwegian Film Commission and the two annual works in the Norwegian Film Commission will be placed under the same umbrella as the Film Institute – that is the dramatic film centre. I think it must be a sort of level of documenting what you're saying. When you say it's a dramatic centralization, you have to come up here and say what this centralization is. Otherwise, it is impossible to conduct discussions. I have seen that the director of the Film Commission, Truls Kontny, writes tearing posts about his own position in the newspapers, and that it is dramatic for the Norwegian film world that he is going to be under the Norwegian Film Institute. I think the Norwegian film industry is going to live very well with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1922	Tove Karoline Knutsen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1926	I just want to support the Council of State in what he said now. Sick about such a big institute with a leader and a board can seem like a heavy power concentration, I'm actually pretty sure that the new film institute is going to be a much cleaner organization of the film field than what we have today, where there are many slightly different and sometimes conflicting tasks in one and the same unit. I'm guessing that the new institute will have a much cleaner and more transparent organization. So to the representative Karin S. Woldseth: Yes, both state and regional funds in the regional funds can be used for all formats, including long film. One limitation is that state funds should not be used to top finance those who have already received support from Norwegian Film Fund. However, it is fully possible for regional actors to use the state resources available in the funds to tell their own stories, regional stories. That's what's exciting, what's new, and what's amazing about what the regional funds from now on are going to represent.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1933	Olemic Thommess has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1936	The centralization is, of course, the accumulation of all power in the new film fund. We've made it clear that it's under strong doubt we're going in for that collection. What's been an important premise on the Right is that when this happens in Oslo, we can manage to build up environments outside the country, which can be a real counterweight to this. In this debate, I have tried to point out a number of issues that are precisely that, namely what is needed to build up those environments. This debate has shown more clearly than ever, just as I said, that all the arrows point to Oslo. It's in Oslo the money stays lying; it's in Oslo the power over programming stays lying; it's in Oslo the whole – what to say – the centre of gravity of both money and competence remains lying. It is clear that this is a strong centralization, and the signals that the government itself has pointed to, because the government itself has been aware of this, are, in my opinion, not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1943	The representative Thommessen has used up his speaking time, so I'm not going to bother him with new rounds of this. But I just want to say briefly that if Thommess really meant what he said, he should first support the Government and the majority of the population in that we should have a political debate about the different pots within this new institute, so that not all power concentrates there, but that we also get an open discussion about the priorities. I mean, here the right itself is in favour of centralization. Then it can't be to give the regional film funds an alternative power to say that, well, you're going to be allowed to spend the main pot of money that you've got from the state, on the films that Norsk Film Foundation has decided to make. It's just another channelling, it doesn't change anything of the Norwegian film fund's priorities. It's just getting a little extra money from the regional -- you're actually spending the muscle power of the regional film funds on just putting money into the priorities that the Film Fund is doing, so it's strengthening centralisation, not weakening it. So I don't understand. But, well, we're going to continue the discussion in other contexts. At least there is a strong strengthening of the regional film funds, which is done both through the notification and, of course, through the money we spend on the regional film funds. Finally, I would like to say that we have now discussed annual work – I don't know how many annual works, a few – for the Film Institute, which is involved in archives, and two annual works in Bergen, where the film commission is involved, and we have discussed whether the film funds should be able to provide regional money for the films that Norsk Filmfond has decided to make, or not. There are details, so in this debate we might also have to figure out that this is actually a historic day for Norwegian film, because a total of four times three, that is, twelve, the main objectives of an ambitious film policy, join the main lines of the structural changes, and agree that we are now going to carry out the time of the bet on film. It is a strength for the Norwegian film industry that we are gathered about it and that the committee is actually in agreement in the big lines. That means that we in this room are willing to commit ourselves also in terms of the budgets ahead and say that Norwegian films are to be lifted in Norway and internationally. We just have to become a film nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1954	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 3550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1970	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e1977	There is a broad majority in the Committee that joins the Government's proposal on changes to the licence collection and reduction of broadcasting fees for 2007. Licensing has been discussed several times during winter and spring. The background has been that the NRK was required to change its accounting procedures during the previous period, so that the periods for the payment of the licence would follow the calendar year. The reason was that the NRK was subject to VAT. In the budget for this year, the majority of the population followed this up and decided that conversion of the licence application would follow the calendar year, while the licensors would pay as much as before, at the same time as before, and see as much television as before. In other words, the licensee should not notice any difference, even if the accounting in the NRK was changed. I would still argue that it would have been quite possible to carry out what Stortinget decided before Christmas last year, without in any way going over or ramming the television viewers in any way. The ministry was also prepared to do so. When it turned out, however, that the economic consequences for the NRK's part would be as large as the NRK said they would be, it was right for the Government to put forward a new case for the Storting. The adjusted proposal of the Government has come along, takes care of the important government party and Christian People’s Party – except that we will have to pay the licence in the future by 31 January and 31 July, and that for 2007 there will be a discount in the license of $346. One secures NRK's economy and liquidity, and one ensures that TV viewers see as much television as before, and at the same price. That's the most important thing. There is a broad majority, all the parties with the exception of the Progress Party, which is now behind the new licence collection model and the reduction in broadcasting fees proposed by the Government for 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2000	They are well known in this room that the Progress Party wants a reorganisation of the NRC and a reduction and in the long term a termination of the licence. I'll leave that relationship in this context. The changes planned in the case of the licence caused significant uncertainty in December-January. We interpret it so that the proposal that we are now dealing with will clean up this. However, the Progress Party believes that the licensors should not disregard the interest message that is coming. It's just $5 per cent. the licence is concerned, but for the Progress Party this is also a matter of a principle approach. I am therefore addressing the proposal that is to be found in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2009	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[See page 3550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2027	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2043	The size is today to manage the 2006 Annual Report from the Ombudsman of the Administration of Stortinget, Document No. 4 for 2006-2007. The Committee is mostly in agreement, with the exception of a small section on linguistic smoothing. I expect that representatives from the majority will do this on their own. It is right to point to the ombudsman's important function in an open, pluralistic and democratic society. One might say that the system of a trustee for the administration has been successful, and it is right to say that many countries have copied the system. When we are involved in and promote the development of democracy in other countries, an institution is the custodian of the administration as part of the scheme. It is also interesting to note that the word ombudsman is a word used in many languages. I think it is right and reasonable to give praise to the agent for the work that has been done. One notices that the number of issues that have been raised on our own initiative is increasing. This returns a stronger element of dynamic. But it is important to point out that this does not have to go beyond the other work. The Committee finds annual reports rich, informative and well structured. The annual message gives a particularly good picture of a number of different problem settings in terms of different management areas, while at the same time it addresses the user's situation, as opposed to the administration's practice of laws and regulations. Legislation is a dynamic process where there will always be room for improvement. The Annual Report is a good tool for assessing how some laws and regulations work in practice. There shall be no injustice to the individual citizen. This is an important principle in a rule of law and an important basis for the Ombudsman’s control function. The Ombudsman raises in Chapter III the question of the delimitation of the public administration and thus of the Civil Service Ombudsman's work. Developments in which parts of the public administration are organised in their own legal entities, followed by administrative laws and public law. The Committee refers to the instructions for the ombudsman referred to in Section 1: ‘The Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the administration — the Civil Ombudsman — shall endeavour to ensure that there is no injustice in public administration towards the individual citizen and that officials, officials and others serving the administration do not make mistakes or neglect their duties’. In 1980, the wording «general government» entered into the ombudsmanslaw § 4 as a substitute for «public administrative bodies». The law was based on the fact that the ombudsman's work also covers relations where the administrative image is exercised by institutions that are not bodies of the public administration. The Committee agrees with the Ombudsman that this is an important issue and indicates that it has also been discussed in relation to the changes adopted in public law. Inner. O. No 41 for 2005-2006. On the basis of the ombudsman's task of preventing the individual citizen from being mistreated or wronged by the administration, it would not be in line with the intentions behind the ombudsman system if it were to be allowed to organize itself away from the ombudsman's work force. It is also quite clear, in the Committee's view, that independent legal entities carrying out administrative tasks fall within the competence of the Ombudsman. It is also the case, as it is also written in the Annual Report, that independent legal entities with activities linked to public interests will also come under the control of the ombudsman. Regular monitoring of this is carried out by the National Audit Office or by the political governing body. The Committee has noted that the ombudsman has asked the Government to take steps to ensure that the introduction of VAT on legal services may be contrary to Paragraph 98 of the Constitution. We're looking forward to this statement. Furthermore, we are also aware of the ombudsman's eight that freedom of expression to the public seemed to be under pressure, despite the change in the Constitution that was made in 2004. The purpose of this change was to strengthen that freedom, that the public were able to express itself freely. 26 complaints received by the ombudsman in 2006 were issues relating to child protection. These are difficult things, where the child is the central party, and where there are many intersecting interests. They're very emotional. Most of these matters could not be handled by the caretaker. It is therefore important and appropriate to take the initiative taken by the Ombudsman to obtain a research project on the quality control of the issues of child protection that will not be dealt with. Every year a number of complaints are received from landowners who have received a refusal to apply for a derogation to build in the beach area. These are issues that are in the border area between management and policy. In view of this, the Ombudsman’s role must be limited to pointing out whether there is an incorrect use of the law, or whether there is an incorrect administrative handling. In these words, the Committee proposes the setting for the Civil Ombudsman’s Annual Report 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2084	The Ombudsman has delivered an annual report for 2006 which is comprehensive, informative and well structured – and this year also with a picture. The case rapporteur commented on most of the important aspects of the annual report, so I'm just going to focus on a few of the issues. In the annual communication, the Ombudsman raises the question of the delimitation of public administration and thus of the competence of the civil ombudsman. There is an important issue in the light of developments in the organisation of general government. The starting point must be that it shall not be possible to organise itself away from the critical point of view of the Civil Ombudsman. The Committee therefore agrees with the Ombudsman that independent legal entities fall within the remit of the Ombudsman when their activities relate to administrative tasks or specific public interests. However, it must be stressed that this must be seen in the context of the instructions of the Civil Ombudsman, which is to ensure that the individual citizen is not subjected to any injustice by the administration. There must and must be a borderline between this responsibility and responsibility for other types of control of the administration in general, including that organised as independent legal entities. The latest form of control will be entrusted to the National Audit Office and/or to the political governing authorities of the bodies. This issue also applies to another issue mentioned in the Annual Report, namely complaints concerning exemptions in the coastal zone. The Civil Ombudsman uses in his description the work of the complaints received on such cases, formulations that may raise questions as to whether this border crossing is sufficiently clear. When the Civil Ombudsman asks the Ministry of the Environment for its view on whether current dispensation practices are consistent with the national objectives expressed in relation to the coastal zone, he expresses himself in a way that might raise doubts as to whether it is wrong for individuals to be controlled or whether it is more similar to a more traditional management control. The last one is the Riksrevision. Let me also underline the Committee's emphasis on the need to balance the use of resources between the complaints received by the Ombudsman and the issues he raises on his own initiative. The latter is undoubtedly an important part of the Ombudsman's task. However, the extent should not be so large that treatment capacity is impaired in the cases that come in and that necessarily have to be given priority. The Civil Ombudsman shall receive, in the suspension, well-founded commendation in relation to the annual report. Therefore I will allow myself to point to one thing that amazes. The Civil Ombudsman uses 5 1/2 pages in his Annual Report to argue for a rematch on a decision that a unanimous odelsting made as late as last year. It is, in order to use a parliamentary expression: premature – especially because it was made quite clear in the debate that the amendment of the law should not entail material changes to the Civil Ombudsman’s right of access. With regard to the majority’s comment on the use of new drugs, it is true that the law exempts, among other things, the use of new drugs. the civil ombudsman from having to use both forms of the target. So this is a recommendation. After all, the law does not prohibit the Civil Ombudsman from doing so in any of the cases he also brings to Stortinget. The Civil Ombudsman is in charge of what was well-targeted, so I don't think it was going to be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2107	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[See page 3551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2123	The situation at the Transdum International Police Station was critical when the Civil Ombudsman visited the place in March 2006. The Civil Ombudsman took action on the matter, and everything indicates that the visit and follow-up of it continued to improve the situation. With the exception of the Progress Party, which has its own views and proposals, the Committee stands united in its observations on this matter. The background to the establishment of the International Foreign Service was criticism from several teams that the persons concerned were placed in ordinary prisons together with persons convicted of criminal offences. One of the bodies that took this up was the Council of Europe's torture committee, the CPT. The Civil Ombudsman has, among other things, been responsible for practical matters at the boarding school. addressed aspects of security cells and forced use, communication control, consent to inmatement, use of hired instruments, the activity offer of the interns, the food supply and inspections. I'll just briefly say a little bit about some of these relationships. It should be a matter of course that people live under proper conditions even if they are in an international trip and hopefully only have to be there for a short time. Frozen-dried dinner is e.g. not what we should offer, and fortunately it has changed. The same applies to the conditions in the safety cells. These were also referred to as ‘insuitable for detention of any kind’ by the CPT. We can't be familiar with these statements. Inspections of the boarding school every half hour can also seem quite violent, we have to admit. Especially at night it must have seemed disturbing. At the same time, it is important to stress that frequent inspections may be necessary to ensure the safety and security of the occupants. But this has to be done in a way that doesn't seem offensive and that safeguards the individual's right to privacy. One of the most serious things that emerges from the Civil Ombudsman's report is the lack of legislation. It is critical that the international community has been in operation for so long without the development of clear rules enshrined in the law and regulations governing the operation of the international community and the use of detention, power and coercion. In parallel with the examination of this matter by the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Municipal and Administrative Committee has had legislative changes to deal with the necessary legal bases for the operation of the International Foreign Service. This matter has recently been dealt with here in the Chamber. The Ombudsman makes comments on the draft law in his document, and he is in favour of the new legal provisions. As far as I can see, the legislation will improve and remedy the critical circumstances of the Civil Ombudsman. The Civil Ombudsman has also called for the establishment of an External Board of Supervisors to supervise the operation of the Internatio and the treatment of non-residents residing there. The Committee welcomes this. So far, there have been both interns and people who have signed consent statements at Trandum. This has not been a lucky combination. The new legislation shall no longer open to persons living in the rest of the world on the basis of their consent. There must be other solutions for these. Some – including families with children – stay in the boarding school for a longer time. Their need for various types of activity has not been adequately addressed. A new activity building has now been built and the new legislation clarifies the right to physical activity and to stay in open air and to provide a reasonable number of indoor and outdoor activities. I expect this to be followed up in practice. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned with the children's situation on Trandum. This is not a place where it should have been a child. The Christian People's Party therefore promoted legislative proposals in order to better take care of the children who are in such a situation that they should be interned. I hope that other solutions are quickly found for these children. This case shows that it is useful that the Civil Ombudsman visits administrative bodies and institutions and examines matters that seem critical. The further course of action suggests that the involvement of the Civil Ombudsman was important for the correction of critical circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2155	In a way, I wanted to make a real effort in terms of immigration policy and the need for closed reception, but I would like to pay close attention to our particular comments in the Committee's position and address the two proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2160	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2163	I will start by giving praise to the rapporteur, as I see it, presented this matter in a very good way. Much of what I was going to say in my speech, the case-rapporteur said, so I shall not repeat it, but I shall conclude to all the points of view raised by the case-rapporteur, Ola T. Lånke. I would also like to pay tribute to the Civil Ombudsman, who has taken care of this matter. There is no doubt that there have been unworthy relationships on Trandum. Fortunately, we can see that conditions today are good, but we know that there are people who have been there under unworthy conditions for over a year. That the Civil Ombudsman goes into it, and that leads to improved relationships there, is very good. I hope that the Civil Ombudsman will focus on this kind of thing in the future. Then I have to say that for my part and for the SV part we have to ask ourselves some questions. How many similar things do we have around Norway? So we've tried to criticize mistakes we've made in the past: what kind of mistakes did the Norwegian state, the Norwegian community, to the tattoos? What kind of mistakes we have made against different minorities over the years – against the Sami minority, against the travellers, etc. - for which we actually have to apologize today? We know that people from the royal family have had to go and apologize on behalf of the Norwegian people. But what are we doing wrong in 2007? Are we really going to have refugee camps in Norway? Should the world's best country live in, have refugee camps and, as the Advance Party wishes, receive closed reception? I think there'll be new rounds where we have to apologize for the way we choose to treat people. What has been revealed at Trandum is revealed, but we also know that there are other places where people seeking asylum – and seeking asylum is lawful – are treated in an unworthy way. That's why I think we should focus much more on how we treat people who come to the country, whether they are seeking asylum, or there are other reasons why they are applying to get into Norway. It is completely unworthy that we operate with refugee camps in Norway. We don't need that in this country. That is why we need to focus on that in the future. I must say that I take a great deal of distance from the comment made by the Progress Party, and the proposal that they have made, that one should have the more stringent when staying at reception and in the way in which one treats this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2174	The UN High Commissioner for Refugees is headquartered in Geneva. The visitor to UNHCR is met by a statue of Fridtjof Nansen. So we're met by one who was involved and highlighted the expression of human dignity, international solidarity and Norwegian involvement in that field. There is no doubt that Norwegian refugee policy today contains difficult balances. However, there can be no doubt that the civilian ombudsman's visit to Trandum was the most necessary and was an important priority of the civil ombudsman's. It allowed the correction of a course that could hardly be said to be in Nansen's spirit. I'm not going to add that much. I would also like to commend the case spokesman, who has guided us through this matter both with the comments that a broad majority is behind, and with his post today. But I think it's sad that not a bunch of stuff can be behind these comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2183	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2199	It is a joint committee which notes that 2006 was the first year of a new strategic planning period for the Riksrevision focusing on a shift towards a more comprehensive reporting to the Stortinget. The Committee also agrees with the fact that the Riksrevision is now drawing attention to corruption and public maladministration by seeing the importance of building a counter-power against the tendency for corruption to develop. The National Audit Office’s efforts to organise the audit in order to contribute to the fight against financial crime and increased control of government procurement are in line with the Committee’s priorities. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that reporting to the Stortinget in Document No. 1 was added in the autumn of 2005, with the Riksrevision now reporting more comprehensively on the administration and implementation of the budgets by the ministries. In this respect, the Committee sees that the Riksrevision has decided to amend its programming period so that the audit year runs from 1 May to 30 April. This will mean that the establishments will receive final audit letters by 31 May after the financial year and that the date of reporting to the Stortinget will be accelerated so that Document No. 1 will be presented to the Stortinget when the Stortinget meets at the beginning of October. The Committee believes that this would be a sensible arrangement also for the Committee's work on these issues in the Grand Duchy. Furthermore, we have noted that in 2006 the National Audit Office decided to set up an entity responsible for capacity development of national audits in selected co-operation countries, thus contributing to the development of good governance and the fight against corruption in these countries. In this context, a cooperation agreement has been concluded between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Audit Office to ensure that the National Audit Office’s development cooperation supports the Norwegian development and foreign policy objectives, a cooperation that the Committee sees very positively, in particular as the fight against corruption in many developing countries may be the best form of assistance to these countries, so that, in the long term, if it is achieved and more orderly in the management of its countries, it will not be so dependent on annual assistance. Then there is a majority in the committee that points out to the Riksrevision, which is not bound by the goal law, that it is fully possible for the Riksrevision to use side-by-side objectives as well. Of course, we know that it is, but the Progress Party finds no reason to be on a note, as we have full confidence that the National Auditor and the National Auditor's College are aware that they have the opportunity to use side goals if they want to. Of course, I have also noticed that no proposal has been made by the majority in any direction, whether on legislative changes or anything else. So this is a kind call. We don't see any reason to be involved in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2214	I'd like to take a few minutes of Stortinget's time a late evening just to base the comment that the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen are unable to join. In the 1800s, the Stortinget chose five state auditors for one year at a time. Between 1883 and 1887, one of these auditors was Arne Garborg. He was not only one of Norway's leading intellectuals, but also one of those who stood in the limelight for the national goal. In his time as State Auditor, the Stortinget asked, in 1885, the government for "to make the necessary provision for the Norwegian language to be equated as a school and official language with our common language of Scripture and Book". This Yamstelling Decision will later be based on Norwegian language policy. A broad majority in the Committee is behind a comment which suggests that the Riksrevision – in the spirit of Arne Garborg – should now use both Norwegian languages in its publications. The left is not represented in the committee. The left was behind and was turning through the balancing decision in 1885. I find it hard to see that they are disagreeable in this. – I record that I compete with conversations at the back of the hall, but I actually found it worth taking this to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The detailed rules for target use in the state services of the Public Service Act do not apply to the Riksrevision, but it does override the objective of law: linguistic smoothing in Norway. We don't go in to change the laws, the notes are jamside's laws and shed light on the road that the Riksrevision is about to go. The majority of the committee also asks the National Audit Office to draw up summaries in its annual reports of the distribution between the new Norwegian and book objectives in its writings. The National Audit Office is an important institution in the Norwegian community. That's the way it should be. The words they say are heavy in the public change of words. The Riksrevision can therefore also play a constructive role in the work on linguistic smoothing. That is what the Stortning says today that the Riksrevision should do. In the weekly newspaper Day and Time on 1 June, after the Committee's statement was known, National Auditor Jørgen Kosmo said: ‘We shall, of course, try to comply with the Committee’s wish to provide reports in new Norwegian, insofar as possible from the resources available to us.’ I found it to be an appropriate response, and I take it that the Riksrevision as well as other of the Stortinge's underlying bodies take a clear and powerful signal from Stortinget in great seriousness. In this note, there is a call for the resources available to the Riksrevision to be used according to the Storting's intentions. Let me end by saying: Former State Auditor Arne Garborg also used both the official languages of Norway. In 1890 he published the novel "Hjaa ho mother". The same year came the Danish-Norwegian edition of the same book, then entitled "Home Mama". In a letter to Bolette C. Pavels in 1890, he wrote about the new Norwegian version: «If you can read it again, read it in Danish – and tell whether they think it is better or worse in that language. It makes my heart feel good that you think the Norwegian seems to be the original. It's not really a translation either – only Gentelling." So the National Audit Service is not going to deliver everything in both languages, but it's going to vary. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2247	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2263	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2276	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2427	During the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of Proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Christian People's Party, addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2466	Proposals Nos. 1 to 4, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2523	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:57 [[2006-2007]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2564	There is a vote on the proposal from the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 29 May 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2586	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 2 and 3, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2619	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Norwegian Film Commission continues to become an independent entity with its headquarters in Bergen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2649	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size agrees that for 2007 the broadcasting fee for television broadcasters shall be SEK 1623 excluding VAT.’» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2718	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-2.ana.ud2320e2879	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
