ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e38	The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Bjørn Sturla Odden, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Børge Brende, submitted an application for leave from 1 January 2008 onwards and the Spring Session of the Stortinge to take up a post in the World Economic Forum in Geneva. President Thorbjørn Jagland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e51	I would like to inform you of why the Presidency recommends that this leave be given. The starting point is the Basic Law, which regulates the possibility of laying down a large-scale mandate, i.e.: there is no such possibility. However, we have cases where wholesale representatives have left the Storting before the period is over. There are mainly two categories of cases. One is when a representative is appointed to the Council of State, e.g. to the ambassador. Then he loses his freedom of choice and must immediately withdraw from Stortinget. The same applies if a representative takes a different position in a department. The second category is the case we are now facing, which is about getting a leave because he has a different type of job. We have one previous case to which we can refer, namely when Paul Thyness was granted leave to take up a job as Vice President of the United Nations Development Programme, UNDP. It was then formulated in such a way that the Constitution can be waived if it is in national interest for Norway to have such a job. Børge Brende has received a job as Managing Director of the World Economic Forum. The management of the World Economic Forum consists of eight directors, each with their respective fields of work. Børge Brende’s main responsibility shall be to link contacts with governments, parliamentarians and non-governmental organisations and to set up annual session programmes. The World Economic Forum is today a foundation that the thousands of largest companies in the world are behind, with 500 employees in its organization. They work closely with many other major global organisations. The World Economic Forum is an important pre-miss provider for the G8 Group on climate issues, and the Doha Round in the WTO. It's hard to see that this position is of less national interest than Paul Thyness got in 1980. Any such case is difficult to consider in the light of the provisions of the Constitution and must be dealt with with with with the humility and reflection that is necessary. If we think about it, it almost never happens that a big-time representative is offered such an international top job, so the danger of slipping out and the precedent is not very great. However, I have noticed that there is an irritation that a number of large-scale representatives have been appointed State Secretary over the years. That's understandable, because it means that the executive intervenes in the composition of the Storting, which is the composition of the voters. It is not unnatural to ask whether a subordinate position in a department can be considered more important than a mandate for the elected assembly. Of course, it is different with government councils, who are responsible to Stortinget, with the right to attend and the obligation to meet in this room. The Presidency will discuss whether it is necessary or possible to have a stronger and clearer framework on such matters, in the light of the issue we now have to deal with and what I now mentioned. With these words, I recommend that we make this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e70	The application from Børge Brende is proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e80	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Carl I. Hagen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for the establishment of a Security Committee in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e85	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e99	Since the late 1980s, it has been a political goal to increase the proportion of women in defence. As early as 1976, the size allowed women access to command training and, in 1983, the same access as men to the duty of protection. In 1984, the Stortinget adopted full occupational equality between men and women in the Defence. So the law has been in place for a long time. But the measures did not give the results we wanted. Experience from other parts of the world of work shows that where there have been previously human-dominated professions, the proportion of women has increased considerably over the past 20–30 years. The police have, for example, ready to increase their female share to 25 pst. The size has adopted a target of having 15 pst. Women in Defense during this long-term period we are now in – 2005–08. Unfortunately, this objective will not be achieved. The women's share today is only 7 pst. among the command and command, and approximately 5 pst. among those who serve the first time. To think that we can double this in a year is just wishful thinking. I am therefore pleased that the government has put increased recruitment of women to the Defence on the agenda through this big message. A total of 16 measures are proposed to both recruit and keep more women in military positions, as well as to get more women in leadership positions. Both are equally important. As the rapporteur-general, I would like to say that it is good that it is essentially a joint committee that submits the setting. But I want to add: it should just be missing. But there are some exceptions, and I will come back to them. I would also mention that the committee has held an open hearing on the occasion of the case, where the interest was great, and we got a lot of good input. The characteristic of an equal society is that both men and women are represented at all levels and at all levels of work. In the view of the Committee in principle, the defence should not be an exception. The low proportion of women is therefore not in the pact with that society of which defence is part. This in turn means that the defence does not sufficiently exploit the competence and resources women can provide to the organisation. The Committee therefore agrees with the Government's objective of increasing the proportion of women among both guardians, officers and workers. As I said at the outset, there have been actions in place in the past – but as we now see, the result we wanted has not been achieved. It is therefore also necessary to ask whether an increased proportion of women in defence is a real wish in the organisation and whether the measures taken in the past have been followed up and have received the necessary management anchoring. The Committee has therefore stressed that if the objective of increasing the proportion of women in defence is to be achieved, the need for more women must be anchored, pursued and communicated at all levels of the Defence Organisation. We must demand that recruitment leaders give priority to women, and provide women with career opportunities in line with men. The Committee would also stress the importance of focusing on possible differences between family and careers, and especially in the light of services in international operations, where we actually need many women. A good family policy with flexible solutions that provide room for service adapted to the lives of individual employees will be essential to our success. However, the Committee believes that calling for a voluntary session for women is what is likely to result in a higher proportion of women in the short term among those called for a first-time job. The Communication also discusses the introduction of gender-neutral session and protection obligations. The Committee points out that there are shared views on this, but welcomes the fact that, in the context of the new long-term defence plan, the Government will investigate and further assess this. There is also reason to mention that the Defence Policy Survey is in favour of a gradual introduction of equal protection obligations for both sexes. The head of defense doesn't go that far in FS07, but he wants to have a forced session for women. The Committee has noted that the overall objective is that both sexes should be equally represented at all levels of defence, but that a realistic objective is that we reach a minimum of 20 pst. by 2020, women in command and occupation. The Committee therefore looks forward to seeing the results of the various measures proposed in the Communication. Thus, 16 different measures have been proposed in the Communication. One of the measures is that 25 pst. qualified women shall be reserved by the places of study of the war schools and the staff schools. This is the Right and Advance Party against. I think it's alarming, because if you can't even go for such a moderate measure, I wonder how we're going to move on. The same parties also oppose the provision of programmes for leadership development and personal development by women. If we're going to move on, I mean, and the Working Party, we have to dry up a few little steps. We believe this is moderate measures that should be agreed by everyone. Among the 16 actions listed is the implementation of cultural and defence research. We must work on raising awareness of attitudes to diversity, and it must also be part of the goals of leaders. All the measures are in the option. The last of them, as I will point out, and as I think is important, is that more flexible arrangements are introduced in pregnancy and maternity leave. Of course, this applies to both men and women, but it is important if we are to achieve the goal of equality. I hope that in the near future these measures will provide a defence with many more women, for the defence will mirror the society to be defended. That's why more women have to do it at all levels. Greater diversity in the organisation, including gender balance, will make Defence even better able to meet the security challenges we face, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e137	We're all a few that we need more women in the defense, but there's little disagreement about the measures. On the SV side, we believe that these measures must be done for a long time. If we look at the needs of the defence, we're going to remind people that the defense sees it as if it's not good enough for us men. One also needs to recruit among women to get the best, and the defense should have the opportunity to search among the best among us. They're going to have the same rights as business and who else. For the defence needs, there must also be a foundation. If we take this further in relation to the duty of protection, there is also a need for the people to have the highest possible level of defence and a good and important service. It could strengthen both the willingness to defend and the ability to defend the people that the most possible has been within and had a good service, which they of course tell us further, and which is a kind of preparedness out there in the people. Of course, this is also important for women from a gender perspective. Having the opportunity to participate in the Defence Leadership Programme and to participate in good positions in Defence will be strengthening for women, not least in terms of achieving a career and, of course, the possibility of education. Then I register that the defense doesn't only have problems recruiting women, one also has problems with being able to hold on to the women you've got. It even turns out that up in the system, there's too little room for women. I mean that the measures proposed by the Government are very good, both to make women enjoy the Defence in the long term and that there will then be even more women coming to the Defense. It must be the most important thing to work out this ageing period and perhaps well into the next enlargement period, before any proposals for more drastic action are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e150	St.meld. No 36 for 2006-2007 is an important message – not only because it is about increasing the recruitment of women to the Defence, but also because it tells us that the defence as it works today may not be optimal and that some things can be done differently. For the Progress Party also has no objection to the fact that there are more women in Defense. We see that as a great advantage. The Progress Party believes that Norway should have a modern and flexible defence that can handle a wide range of tasks. The Progress Party believes that the Defence must have available personnel to respond to crises, conflicts and wars, both outdoors and at home. The defence must safeguard our national security and guarantee our sovereignty. At the same time, Norway must contribute to peace and security internationally. In line with the other parties in the committee, we believe that both sexes should be represented in the armed forces in order to have sufficient legitimacy in the population. In addition, in the view of the Progress Party, it will also make defence even better able to meet the security challenges we face nationally and, not least, internationally. The defence shall also, in the light of the Progress Party, make the society to be defended visible. We will show that for a very long time, there has been an objective both politically and defensively to increase the proportion of women – without giving the very large number of women in defence. I remember myself from my time in Defense, as among others. Senior officer at Army Command School, everything we just did to get more women to our command school. We were out in schools and workplaces. We drove out advertisements, arranged barracks for women, by remodeling a whole floor, with new bathrooms, toilets and new playrooms, just designed for women. Exercises and education we arranged as best we could, and what we thought was necessary. Some women, of course, sought, but some great success was unfortunately not. As for this, I have no clear answer, but the answer is probably very complex. The target of 15 pst. Women in Defence in the long term 2005-2008 will not be reached. Today's women's share is 7 pst, and we also think it's too low. But from that figure to the introduction of a gender-neutral protection obligation, the road is too long. Therefore, the Progress Party also seems to be right to introduce a function in the Defence Staff in order to strengthen the work of a higher proportion of women in the Defence. What distinguishes the Progress Party – and also the Right – from the other parties in the Committee is that we are more concerned that the Defense gets the best possible qualified personnel than a percentage of men and women. A sex quota is, in principle, discriminatory. Otherwise, we support most of the 16 points that hopefully increase the female share. The point that we don't support is that 25 pst. by the places of study in the war schools, women shall be reserved. Another point, which we are not opposed to, but which we are not in favour of, to put it that way, is that women are commanded to be offered development programmes for leadership development and personal development. That's of course okay, but it has to apply to both men and women, and not just women. The rest of the 16 points are pretty straightforward. Of those I would particularly like to mention, research is being carried out on culture and attitudes in defence. That's good. It is also good that awareness of attitudes to diversity in the defence sector and work on attitudes to diversity are part of the goals of leaders. All of this is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e163	There is no doubt that there is a unanimity behind the desire to get more women in the defense. It's a measure that's been going on for a long time. It will provide a better defence and a better connection between the people and the defence. As a result, formal obstacles have been removed from the road, yet we have not achieved the results we want. That is why I agree with the rapporteur that it is good that the Government has now put this on the agenda through the message we are now discussing. A number of proposals have been put forward which also provide for unanimity. That's excellent suggestions, but I guess we'll have to be honest enough to say that they're not particularly groundbreaking. So whether they bring us to the goal is another question. But I think that would help at least improve the situation. There is a disagreement at one point: the quota. I noticed that the case rapporteur used the concept of small steps on what we disagree about, and in many ways I fully agree with that assessment. I think this is a little bit of a step, so little that I doubt whether it gets all the world's influence on the result itself. There are some counter-conceptions that are completely obvious. It's not just fun to get involved in things other than their qualities and qualifications. And so this could actually develop into a little bit of an unfortunate circle. We can consider these things differently, but I therefore agree with the rapporteur's assessment that we are talking here about a small step. So I don't think that's where the point itself lies. It is probably the case that the most important issues are perhaps related to whether we want to implement gender-neutral session duty and gender-neutral protection obligation. That discussion does not invite the Government in this round, and I fully agree with that. However, I notice that this is under investigation, so we will have an opportunity to discuss this later. Whether these are good ideas is a completely different matter. But that's what we're going to get back to in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e176	The report on women in defence launches an important debate on equality. Equality is about human dignity and requires that women and men have equal opportunities and rights to participate in and influence social development. Gender equality is a fundamental prerequisite for a democratic society. Equality is not about men and women becoming equal and having equal roles in every context, but about gender not being essential to individual choices in terms of education, employment, influence and everyday life. The Christian People's Party believes that defence should be an integral part of Norwegian society and reflect society. Unfortunately, the proportion of women in the defense is not a real reflection of today's society. There is a political consensus to facilitate more women in defense, and the defense itself wants more women. It will be able to add new and important characteristics and skills to the organisation. A brief look back: it was not until 1985 that full formal equality between women and men was introduced in the defence sector, and from June 2006 a voluntary session for girls was introduced. That also means that girls are automatically called to the session. While the boys have a duty to meet, it's voluntary for the girls. Norway is per year. Today, one of the few countries in the Western world that allows women in all forms of combative service. Girls have the same terms and conditions of service as men in the defense today. That means they can do first-time service, command and war school in the same way as the boys. Girls are not subject to a general protection obligation. Therefore, girls who wish to perform first-time or command school must sign a declaration of willingness. When it is signed, the girls are charged with the same rights and obligations as male guardians. It also requires them to meet with any repetition service and mobilization in war. The Christian People's Party believes that voluntary session for women will make the defense recruit wider. This will provide a greater and more important diversity of defence. The defence needs different types of people, with different characteristics and competences. In other words, it will improve the ability of the defence to carry out the very important tasks demanded by the authorities. Defence shall safeguard and promote national interests, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Norwegian forces must be of high quality and relevant and effective in relation to their tasks. In other words, recruiting both women and men is important here. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Department will launch an investigation on gender-neutral session duty and gender-neutral protection obligation. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will already signal that, at this stage, we do not see the need to introduce gender-neutral protection obligations. However, the need for more women to become aware of and take an active part in the Defence may be considered as a non-sex session requirement. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, a gender-neutral social obligation may seem more interesting. We come back to this when the investigation is available and the matter comes to Stortinget. Voluntary session is an important measure. Well, as important as recruiting is keeping those who are on session. Recruiting women to defence is therefore a challenge that needs to be solved. The defence has as its objective a minimum share of 15 pst. by 2008. The command schools and the war schools have a higher goal. They want a share of 25 pst. In recent years, the proportion of women has varied between 6 and 7 pst. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that 25 pst is the right strategy. qualified women are reserved by the places of study in the war schools and the Staff School. It is otherwise, as in many other areas of society, important with a good family policy, and here we have the Christian People's Party's views that we would like to contribute to when the future investigation is available. Defence must actively focus on a good family policy as one of the measures to keep women and men in the organisation. It may be difficult to combine a career in Defence with family life, but the challenges should not be greater for women than they are for men today. A good personnel and family policy is therefore very important to achieve, and the Christian People's Party will actively contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e197	Today, the defense has been overly low in women, both in command, in servitude and among those who serve the first time. The low proportion of women is not in agreement with the defence society, nor is it in line with the government's equality policy as set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. The low proportion of women leads to a lack of adequate use of the skills and resources that women can provide to the organisation. Today's system may have had a negative effect on the recruitment of women. We therefore need an increased focus on recruitment measures to get more women into the defense. The Defence Trustee System decided at the 2006 National Conference to work for a statutory gender-neutral protection obligation. The reason for the decision is that TMO believes the defence needs more women and that they regard today’s legislation as discriminatory. In the message we're about to deal with, it's a general goal that both sexes should be equal represented at all levels of defence. It will necessarily take a long time before the defence has a gender balanced composition in all the categories of personnel. However, there are no formal obstacles to the defence not being able to achieve a goal of equal representation of women and men in the organisation. A realistic objective proposed in the Communication for the Women’s Share in Defence is that there is a minimum of 20 pst. by 2020, women in command and occupation. Today's share is 7-8 pst. I look forward to a further investigation into gender-neutral session duty and gender-neutral protection obligations. In this investigation, the different impacts of the schemes will be affected, including any impact on civil service. This issue will then be the subject of the next long-term defence plan, which will be presented to the European Parliament in 2008. I will take the liberty of mentioning some important milestones in relation to women and defense: 1897: general duty of protection for men1976: The Grand Duchy grants women access to command training1983: Women are granted equal protection in line with men1984: The Grand Duchy adopts full professional equality between men and women in defence1992: first female fighter pilot, Mette Groetteland1995: Norway's first female submarine boss, Solvency Krey1999: first female colonel, Berit Ovesen2002: first female flagship, Elisabeth Natvig2006: Women are invited to the session So the question is whether we get parole and protection obligations for both women and men. I have noticed that the Defence Policy Selection has gone into step by step to introduce this. I look forward to a debate in the next few months on duties, rights and opportunities for both women and men in Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e240	A previous speaker in this case said that there were not many great steps, there were many «small steps». But it is precisely through the many small steps that Norwegian society is changing in important areas. Let me just look at it in perspective: if we look at the mobilisation that has taken place at all Norwegian educational institutions into higher education, Norwegian gender equality policies here have led in most areas, and there have been the many small steps that have led to us today in the situation in Norwegian education that women are moving in and in majority in most higher education. And we have a challenge in relation to our basic education, and we ask ourselves, what is it that makes the boys not hang out with? This rug is necessary to bring it. I also want to allow myself to include another backcloth in the case of institutions that change slowly, and where it is likely to be so that they change slowly. It was in the early 1960s that we got the first female priest in Norway. In 1994, there was of course one thing at the Church Meeting in Norway that women should be heard in all positions in the Church – they are not being replaced. The point of these comments is that the Left does not support the moderate quota proposal. We believe that it is actually underestimating the dynamics of the entire population, including the female part of it, and the representative of the Central Party just showed us how we've got role models in a number of areas of defence. I believe that precisely by looking at these role images, which I believe are being made in the proposals that have been presented – and which the Left supports, with the exception of the proposal on quotas – many important steps could be taken further. Let me draw a parallel to another community area, to the Police College. All must compete equally for both physical and mental requirements. The proportion of women who are qualified and who pass and enter is increasing – it's moving towards 40 pst. However, what is a challenge in the police, and which is also a challenge in the defence, is what happens later in the career. In those contexts, I have a good deal of sense for the proposal to look at how to take care of leadership issues in such a way that they hang out – not so that only men can be there, but also women can be there. But the quota proposal, based on any perception of the dynamics of Norwegian society, is underestimating that dynamics. In addition, I have the impression that in professions that are important to the violence of society, and that we are going to have, both police and defence, is very special about someone who is going to work in a context, coming in on a special basis. I don't think we deserve to have that perception and that thought. We deserve to have the open attitude that I, for example. no later than today, the representatives of the defence officers, who are just looking for women, who wish to do so in a proper way, met. That's this mentality we want. It is a mentality I myself meet with the officers, both younger and older officers. It is this system in which the Left believes and which we believe in in what has been presented by the Committee. But I think it's important to signal that I feel in this context that the quota proposal is to do the equality issue a bear service, and it's not wise for the defense. I think we'll have access to many capable and good women, and when the time perspective is as far as it is, I think it's inevitable that we get it. The increase in institutions, as I have mentioned, heavy institutions such as the Norwegian Church, heavy top-ranking organizations such as the Police, suggests that the same developments will also affect our defence. It is simply the breadth and gravity of social development that will lead many more competent women into the defense. What's crucial, perhaps more important than today's debate, is that in the years to come, one still has a sense of defence as something high to bet on, which gives status, position and respect. It is a key issue and, of course, lies behind both the debate we will later have on the long-term plan and the political selection in this context. On this basis, I have given the Left's comments. [[CELL PHONE RINGING]] I have a challenge, President – I'm going to wind up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e253	She's the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e256	Today, the defense has 7 pst. women in command and employment, and this percentage, to which many have referred, has not changed significantly in recent years. I just have to say that the political objectives of a higher proportion of women in defence have not been achieved. That's the background for the government's report on increased recruitment of women to the Defense this year on 29 June. The Communication proposes 16 concrete measures to increase the proportion of women. The Committee's position and the statements made here today show that there is broad political support and agreement to increase the proportion of women in defence. It not only gives inspiration to me as a state council, but it gives not least inspiration to women who serve in the defense, or who consider serving in the defense. I am also very pleased that an overall committee supports the majority of the measures proposed by the Government to achieve the political objective. Both at home and outside, defence must reflect a democratic, equal and modern society. To achieve this, the defence must be more representative of the Norwegian population than is the case today. The defence has more demanding and complex tasks than just a few years ago. High demands are made on command and soldiers to be able to operate in unpredictable situations, both nationally and internationally. The defence therefore needs a wide range of people with different backgrounds and competences in order to fulfil their role and function in a good way. It is therefore important that the defence can draw on the competences of the Norwegian community, both among women and men. To ensure that the defence has enough qualified personnel to solve today's and future challenges, there is a need to recruit from all over the population, not just from one half. Several women will be an important part of changing defence and adapting it to modern society. Different religious and cultural conditions may restrict how international forces can act against women in the local population. A greater proportion of women in international operations could contribute to increased access to information on local conditions and specific challenges that may be important for the mission. In international missions, a Norwegian military force should also be a reflection of our own democratic society. A good gender balance at all levels in our forces will show equality and equality in practice. In December 2006, I set up a Higher Women's Commission in Defense. The selection was wide-ranging and was given the task of preparing proposals for increasing the proportion of women in defence. The report from the sample has made a significant contribution to the gross domestic product reported here today. The measures set out in the Communication are mainly aimed at three different aspects: increasing the recruitment of women, increasing the number of women to stay in the organisation and increasing the number of women in management positions. Increased awareness of attitudes and increased understanding of diversity are essential for women to remain in Defense. Therefore, actions related to defence positions are included in the notification. The moment that the representative of Sahl was faced with in terms of staff and family policy is also important and an area in which we focus in particular. In the Communication, the Government does not decide whether to impose a gender-neutral session requirement or a gender-neutral protection obligation. However, it is very important to have a fundamental debate on these issues. I aim for the Government to come back to Stortinget with this when we present the proposal for the next long-term defence plan. Unfortunately, as the Committee has also pointed out, the measures taken so far to increase the proportion of women in defence have not had the desired effect. The report on the size of this issue today will be an important contribution to achieving the policy objectives of which there is broad consensus. I have great expectations that the measures will help to increase the proportion of women in defence at all levels, and I will follow this closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e286	In the October Falsbladet you can read an interview with a woman’s command named Jeanette Håvimb. She's a staff officer at Telemark Bataljon and says that she's nothing special about the quota of women to the Defense. She says, among other things:\t\t You can "Quoting means essentially forcing people into places where they don't belong, and for my part it's going to be very wrong. If you're going to look at the long term of actually trying to keep those who want to stay in Defense, you're going to have to get those who want to make an effort first, and there's a greater chance that they'll continue instead of leaving after a vested duty of protection." The second thing I want to do is refer to an indent in the setting. It says: «Female command is provided for development programmes for management development and personal development.» What makes women need this more than men?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e301	I am very well aware that there are different opinions about whether or not to use allowances as an instrument. There are many views of this also in the Defence. I think that once we've had a female share of 7 pst. For very many years, and it's not moving up a millimeter, you have to look at other and more radical instruments, and then a moderate quota is such an instrument. With regard to development programmes, I believe that doing this in a sensible way can produce good results. It's important that we take care of the women we want to take care of. It's not easy in an organization that's dominated by 93 pst. men, to assert themselves in the same way as in a more equal organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e308	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e326	June 19th this year, Stortinget deals with most chapters in St. pp. No 78 for 2006-2007 on investment. The ones that are left over are chapters 4.4 and 4.5. The purpose of these chapters is to provide Storting with information on the review of the defense downfall and previous removal processes. The review that has been made and the conclusions that you can draw from it are in line with the Soria Moria statement. The reduction was decisive to achieve the necessary savings over the period 2001–2005. In addition, I would like to point out that decommissioning has been a natural consequence of a change in defence, both in terms of device, scope and logistics. This review gives rise to important knowledge when it comes to defence renewal processes. Deployment has gone on in a way that has not at the same time led to an increase in the privatisation of services, which was discussed in the past. It makes sense that security is now provided for the defence's core functions under the responsibility of the Defence itself. And then I see that the Right Party and the Advance Party have their own notes when it comes to removal processes. I don't think we're so very different here. I have full respect for their comments, and they can certainly express themselves about them, but when it comes to removal processes, it's not like you're against local business, or other business for the sake of the cause, doing the job for the Defense. But we have to figure out the right balance point. And then we must have respect for the very nature of the defence. One must usually have both a running gear and probably also have a workshop for it – one must have the whole line. But there we have not come to any conclusion. We'll see even more about this over Christmas when we get a big message about interaction with the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e339	During the treatment of St.prp. No 78 for 2006-2007, on the approval by the Storting of new investment projects at the end of the spring session, the majority of the Committee decided that part of them had to be postponed until the autumn. Chapter 4.4 and Chapter 4.5 are currently being treated. In the process of transforming the defence from a mobilization to an intervention defence, a significant downsizing was needed. The objectives set for personnel, the economy and the timetable were achieved. In order to achieve the reduction target, take-off incentives were widely used. The use of this means was expensive for the defense, but the savings were fortunately greater than the costs. The defense had little control over who was offered to leave their posts. This resulted in the loss of a number of personnel with a desired critical competence. Specially important was the voluntary take-off. This, in turn, led to the rapid disappearance of the competence requested from the Defence Department. In retrospect, the Ministry of Defence sees that the downsizing process could have been carried out differently. In particular, the Ministry wishes to improve in three areas: 1st@item: inlistbox Adoption of conversion plans must be implemented in due time.2. The use of take-off incentive measures was not sufficiently targeted, resulting in the loss of the wrong type of staff.3. Lack of defined residual competence for use in the different parts of the defence was not made clear in the process. The main objectives of a good defence are that at all times there is sufficient competence both military and civil to achieve the specific defence objectives of the Stortinge. Human beings are the defence's most important resource, and the Government states that future down-staffing processes are based on total economic considerations and that the values of personnel are treated satisfactorily. The last one's immeasurably important. With this, the government takes self-criticism that the downsizing processes could have been done much better by the Defense than was the case. So I'll talk a little bit about the review of past processes of exclusion. The government announced in St. Prp. No 1 for 2006-2007 that it would review the use of exception by the defence as an instrument in its migration process. This is a follow-up to the Soria Moria statement. The defence has carried out its own evaluation of exempted projects carried out. Important evaluation parameters were total economy and operational conditions, security and preparedness, as well as the personnel implications. The conclusion of the defence evaluation was better control and management of costs, increased flexibility, and the projects were implemented so that the operational conditions were properly maintained. It is therefore with wonder that I read further in the landfill proposal that the defense is not sure if the exception provides long-term good results, even though the defense's own evaluation seems to show just this. The government will continue the modernisation of the defence. This results in increased operational activity in the North and the ability to participate in international operations under the auspices of the United Nations and NATO. Where it is appropriate to streamline the internal efficiency of the Defence Military Organisation, this is given priority over postponing parts to external actors. The government will also not consider outsourcing tasks that the defense is currently required. The fact that the defence itself is to perform core functions is natural. Furthermore, the objective is that the conversion into the Defence shall strengthen the operational activities, which in turn will lead to the optimal execution of the Defence’s tasks, intelligible. What I am stunning about, however, is that the government does not at all want an assessment of privatising and postponing non-sensitive parts of the defence business. Competition in the vast majority of cases leads to better, cheaper and more flexible and innovative task solutions than cases where we have a monopoly situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e387	I am pleased that we are now dealing with chapters 4.4 and 4.5 of this motion for a resolution on the review of the downsizing of defence and the review of previous processes of exclusion. This is a follow-up to the Soria Moria statement, which says: ‘The government will review the experience of downsizing, privatisation, tenders and horizontal interaction in the Defence.’ The defense has been through a tough transition that has cost a lot in relation to human resources. We have to realize that there is no longer room for cheese-making in defence savings. We also need to take into account employees who are tired of the constant changes. For the defence, it is now important that we set out a course with a long-term perspective and with predictable framework conditions for tomorrow's challenges. We must create peace and security around the Defence both internally and in society as a whole. I notice that the Government in the context of the work on the new long-term defence plan 2009-2012 states first of all that the people are the most important resource the Defense has. Therefore, a new long-term plan should seek to address: the further conversion of defence to solutions that are totally economical favourable to defence, and not just focus on business-economy savings in the use of manning frameworks in governance, does not prevent the finding of solutions that are totally economical favourable to defence in view of the fact that there is a good dialogue with employee organisations in the further transition; I am very pleased with this, and it shows that we are pursuing a new policy. But we are still facing internal challenges in Defence today. Last year, in the context of the examination of the budget, the Committee concluded that annual work frameworks must be considered as a tool, "but they must not stand in the way of establishing solutions that are economically favourable". Despite this, there is an introduction of an additive and extensive use of rentals. Yes, a letter has recently been sent out in the FLO that the annual work frameworks laid down should be respected despite the fact that the order books are full, and that it will clearly pay off to hire people in fixed positions instead of using large sums on rent. I feel confident that the Council of State will clean this up, and I hope that the military leaders will be more good at following up the signals given here from the Stortinget. I am very pleased that our government says stop for further privatisation and exception in the defense. It is important to bear in mind that military power is the state's ultimate instrument of violence. In this context, I believe that careful fundamental assessments and analyses of the core functions of the defence must be carried out and must always be carried out under the sole control of the defence. I am also concerned about a comprehensive review of the Defence Support and Logistics concept, which assesses logistics and support functions from a preparedness perspective, taking into account issues such as the competence of defence material and systems. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of having a good, tidy, constructive and involved relationship with employees and their representatives. This is a prerequisite for a successful further conversion of the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e426	A few of the speakers have pointed out that this case is the remaining part of the investment proposition that was presented in the spring session. It calls for two comments. One is the question of what these two chapters really have to do with investment issues. Probably nothing, except that the government would send a document to the Stortinget anyway, so it was okay to hang this on. It is a practice I have noticed also used in connection with other documents. We've gradually learned that the documents aren't necessarily what the title refers to, but the question is, don't think about it a little bit neater. We have some of the same problem now related to the regrouping proposition this autumn. That's the one. The second thing is that, as we remember, the reason why these matters were not dealt with, is that the government submitted this proposition so late that really no part of it should have been dealt with in the spring session. Nevertheless, we took out and dealt with the matters that were urgent, extended the landfill session, took some inner swings – not least in relation to our own party groups – to get this done. It would therefore not be possible to deal with this during the spring session, and it was not related to the investments either. When I mention this point right now, it's because I remember in ours that there were enough parts that thought we should have dealt with the proposition, because these propositions used to come so late, so we should be able to do it this spring as well. To that is to say that it is possible that it has happened before, but there is nothing better about it. And when it comes to leading what should happen to spring: when the investment proposition is presented to spring, the government must ensure that it is presented so early that there is time for both internal treatment in the committee and proper treatment in the political groups, and it should come so early that it is possible to do all this without extending the accumulation session. This means, in other words, that the government has to reflect significantly earlier than last year if it is expected to deal with the investment proposition before the end of the six-month period. So to the very contents of it. It's true, as Bendiks Arnesen's representative says, that in many ways this is a follow-up to the Soria Moria statement and to the performances you had when you wrote it. In this way, I cannot fail to read some disappointment out of the government's handling of the matter, because it is clear that the defense's evaluation has concluded that operational conditions have been satisfactorily maintained, while better control and management of costs and increased flexibility have been identified. That's the conclusion of the exceptions, and that's actually a pretty positive conclusion. It is clear that it has led to so much disappointment that the government says, but it is not immediately certain that it is. But then it hasn't had time to type in why it's resonating that way. Until that reasoning is put on the table, I prefer to assume that this is actually an attempt to land ideologically, because you've suspended it that exceptions are not good. We're just going to see that reality wasn't what you'd believed in Soria Moria, but it's not just about this area. However, what I think is a bit surprising is that the minority of the committee – representing the majority of the majority of the majority of the population – has not been able to agree with the idea that when assessing whether it is appropriate to postpone something, thorough financial calculations must also be carried out, so that the money reaches as far as possible. It's interesting that it doesn't have the committee minority would be involved, because it's obvious that you're willing to pay for your ideology. That's all right. But I would like to remind you that one of the defence problems now is that there is too little money. It is the clear message from both studies that has been presented this autumn, and it is also evident in the draft budget for next year, and I believe that the defence has been served that we manage the economy as well as possible. This is not the case, as someone has tried to make it, that this is a discussion if you also enter and privatize the core areas of the defence. None of us have claimed to do that. There I fully agree with the fundamental assessments, but that does not mean that in some of the areas that do not constitute the core areas you cannot take this sensible economic approach to the question. So you're not willing to do that, but maybe it's also an attempt to give some concessions to ideological pre-assessments, which then haven't been proven to vote here either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e445	The chairperson of the Committee chose to link this matter, which he has now commented on, with what happened earlier this year. I want to use the opportunity to link the matter with what is likely to happen later. I see the comments on how to use the defence's personnel resources, and how to operate the defense, as quite significant in the debate on what dollars you spend, and what effect you get from the crowns. With regard to the first question, about the staff resources, I will not link any comments to the staff that has taken place, other than that I take note of what is described in the document and which has also been commented on earlier by the representative Henning Skumsvoll. On the other hand, I think it is quite important to stress the relationship that permeates defence policy selection. It is very important that the defence must be good and capable of exploiting its competence and thinking about its competence in such a way that its use can also be made more flexible. This is a very heavy lead in the setting of the Defence Policy sample, and it is introduced as one of the prerequisites for the Defence to contribute to any enhanced effort in the coming years, by improving efficiency. This is why there is every reason to focus on how to manage your skills, how to recruit and take care of your skills. I'm not going to say more than that, because that's going to come back to later, but it's absolutely crucial. Then I also have to say that I am quite surprised that when it comes to defence – and everyone knows that the crowns will reach what is the operational tasks of the defence – you cannot participate in what the majority of the committee says when it comes to making economic assessments on the basis of what to do in relation to the exclusion of tasks. But I just want to highlight the following: I don't think anyone can count on having other dollars than those that exist when you're making up a defense budget. Then there has to be a point that those problems that are not the core tasks of the defense can actually be solved in a different way. I fully agree with the representatives who have said that there is no reason to believe that there is no reason to believe that sensible competitive outsourcing in these areas can also have an impact. To sharpen it and make it clear: we are not going to post the intelligence, we are not going to post the defence's core tasks. But the defense has a series of tasks, support functions and other areas that lie around providing operational measures, whether in the air, on the sea or on the land. That review, which I believe the majority of the committee wants to go further and have a pragmatic, relaxed relationship with, hopes for the Left for its part that the Minister of Defence will also have such a relationship with, because in the contribution of following up on the premises of the Committee of Defence Policy in order to improve the effectiveness of the defence, all such prerequisites must be reversed. We have just had a debate in which a dogma has been challenged in many ways, whether to have women in place in defence. At that time, there has been a willingness to assess measures. Then you also have to have the same transparency in managing the heads effectively outside of what is the defence's core tasks. I agree with the considerations put forward by the chairman of the Committee on this point, but also with the considerations put forward in that case by the representative of the Progress Party. I would assume that this must be of what you perceive as an incursion in the hunt for crowns and manage them, and I base it on the further proceedings. With these comments, Left ends up in the current setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e462	The defense, as many have been involved, has been through a comprehensive conversion that has been necessary and correct. At the same time, it is important that we look at the experience in the course of the process and consider whether there is something that should be done differently in the further transformation in order to make it as targeted and as good as possible. It is good that the Committee endorses the further work of the Government to facilitate the adequate and appropriate competence of the Defence at all times, both in terms of military and civil competence. It contributes to the necessary long-termity of human resources policy. This is not least important at a time when the defence, like everyone else, competes for the labour force in an increasingly tighter labour market. No matter how much material we have, humans are the most important resource the defense has. Therefore, it is also so important that we ensure that the values of personnel for the sector are treated as well as possible, and that we also actively use the personnel in the further development of defence. I note that in the vote there is essentially agreement on the Government's line with regard to the use of alternative renewal measures in the defence sector, as a follow-up to the evaluation of previous exclusion processes. The government believes that good internal solutions can be achieved, and the Storting has also agreed that, where it is possible and useful to streamline internal defence, this should be given priority rather than losing parts of defence activities to external suppliers. However, disposal could also be one of several possible renewal measures in the future, but only in cases where internal solutions are not possible or effective. I note the Committee's emphasis on the fact that the core functions are to be performed by the Defence itself in any case. This is necessary in order for the defence to be able to safely fulfil its national and international tasks. I would like to mention an action that was taken by the previous government and that we have stopped: we have not gone further with the exception of base operations on Haakonsvern, because we consider it a core task to operate the defence's own base. For the Government, it is important that assessments of alternative renewal measures focus on security policy and operational issues, including flexibility and access to the necessary competences. These considerations will be fundamental to the further development of defence. As the Committee is concerned about, we will have a review of the concept of logistics and support in Defence in the context of the next long-term plan. In this review, it will be important to take into account that direct operational support logistics is absolutely necessary for operational capability, and thus, of course, should be done under the Defence's own direction. The government will pay particular attention to the personnel and competences involved in the assessment of the overall economic impact. Staff shall be properly involved in all efficiency processes. I note that, like the Government, the Committee stresses the importance of having a good, tidy, constructive and involved relationship with the employees and their representatives. That's a prerequisite for us to get to a further conversion in the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e482	The Council of State says that the Government – and it is also written in the document – will not delay anything that can be carried out internally in the Defence, even though one is aware that competition often produces better results and not least is cheaper. I just have to admit, there's a disagreement. The defence logistics organisation, the FLO, has been a bottleneck for a long time. There have been delays in projects and, until recently, there have also been job stops there. What I want to ask the Council of State is: in the light of the ongoing problems with supply and logistics organisations in order to have the projects implemented, is the Council of State prepared to assess whether there are no major parts of the FLO's activities to be outsourced?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e491	Very much of what's going on in the FLO is support for the operational capabilities of the other defenses and the entire operational operations, so much of it won't be suitable for exceptions. In general, I say that this can, of course, be assessed in some cases. However, in many cases the defence has also been located in places where total economic considerations have to be taken into account. This isn't just about the money, it's about staff, it's about how the whole business is structured, and not least about how to secure a self-sufficiency that we're completely dependent on to be able to run our business in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e496	The question is about exclusion. And just to prevent misunderstandings: we all agree that this is not about the core areas of defence – so we are outside the core areas of defence. But then the question is: does the Council of State agree or disagree with the majority of the committee when we say that in assessing what is useful to outsource, we also need to make thorough financial calculations, so that the money reaches the maximum possible level? Question no. 2 is: If the Council of State feels that this is not important, why does she feel that such thorough financial calculations should not be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e505	I believe, of course, that financial calculations should be made, but it is important – as I also said in my post – that we also look at the total economy in what we want to do. It will also be about personnel, about an assessment of whether we should have this competence internally. There is always an assessment that needs to be made in relation to the projects of exclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e510	The Council of State sees it as positive with greater cooperation between military and civil, for example: with regard to the purchase of spare parts for the vehicle fleet? The defense has many cars that are equal to the civilians, e.g. Volvo, Scania, Mercedes, Toyota etc. For example, when they have to get hold of cars at a military workshop in Elverum, they have to call and use the military channels. If they had crossed the road to the civil workshop of the car dealer there, they could have got parts over the counter. Will the Council of State give the military workshops more choice, that is, instead of having to go through the military channels themselves to choose where to buy parts, and thus get the parts right away – and perhaps at a more favourable price?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e519	There may be examples that you can do things with greater flexibility. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it is important that we stick to the purchasing channels that we have in the defence. With regard to the very specific example, car parts in Elverum, we may need to get back to – and consider whether we should be able to buy more locally. There's also someone who's taken up in other contexts, in connection with other things we're buying. In general, it is through central agreements that purchases are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e528	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e533	Just a brief comment: the majority of the committee has asked for a thorough financial calculation to be made when assessing what is useful. Governments stressed that she wanted to consider the total economy. To that I would say that the more factors, the better, so that we get an idea of what the economy of this is. On the basis of the explanation given by the Council of State, I note that she will base the majority's comment on this point, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e540	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e556	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e565	The gift enhancement scheme is a direct result of the treatment of the so-called research notification, Will for Research. It is important to remember that it is not long since this was being treated. That is why it is not long since we set up the gift-enhancing system. It was in 2006. I think it is important to remember this when we are discussing and adopting changes in the gift enhancement scheme today. We have to respect that the basis of experience for this reason can be a little bit crazy. Let me first say a little bit about the arrangement we have today. The size of the population has previously adopted very ambitious research objectives. The goal is to 3 pst. GDP will be researched. The participants in this race towards the goal are two parties: the public and private, very simplified to say. It is still far from the goal for both parties. Of course, we in this room have to be very careful about criticising the pace of the other party when our own speed to reach the goal is not optimal – but still more so. Just this challenge, namely the lack of speed, was one of the reasons for establishing the gift-enhancing system – not as criticism, but as a stimulus. This scheme would stimulate private, defined here as enterprises, individuals or foundations, to give gifts to the Research Council, the Norwegian Academy of Sciences and universities and to universities with the right to award doctoral degrees. Tempo and scope were to be increased, not only when it was the one who gave, because if the gift were large enough and otherwise within the framework, it would mean that the State had to contribute 25 pst. the size of the gift, in addition to the value of the gift, i.e. an enhancement of the gift. Secondly, we all want greater attention to be paid to, and through, several donations. One giver, Trond Mohn in Bergen, says it's a pleasure to give, it's one of the driving forces. Moreover, it can be a good investment in the future, perhaps a better investment of wealth than other investments that have been the focus of the past few days. Thirdly, this is at the same time a recognition that private individuals should contribute more to the funding of research. We also know that this is a challenge facing others in the EU. Thus, it is not just in Norway that private individuals should improve in this context. In this way, one would like to believe that we are in good company, but unfortunately that is not the case. We're probably a little bit behind in this fight as a nation. Of course, there may be many reasons why we are in favour of other countries, but the research report states that in Norway, basic research ‘has been regarded as a public matter’. So we're dealing with a tradition -- a tradition we want to do something with, for the benefit of all parties. Fortunately, when someone gives money to research, it is turned up heavily in the media. The same media also report the fact that when you look at the 20 richest people in this country, we find a fortune of $250 billion. From 2004 to 2006, 541 million were granted. kr i gift for basic research – 400 million. SEK of these came from one person and 135 million. kr in gift enhancement. It's going to be 676 million. kr. There is a phenomenal amount of money isolated, but not in relation to wealth or the objectives set in the Research Communication. Today, the size of the gift has to be at least 5 million. kr to trigger gift reinforcement. The proposers believe that this limit should be set at DKK 500000 in order to increase interest in research, while at the same time open to other or new donors, and of course to achieve the objective of the research communication. The Committee agrees with the proposers that one has to look at this, but in a slightly wider context, so that one can consider extending the framework. The administration of the scheme itself is the responsibility of the Research Council. It would be natural to cooperate with them to see if a person can get a better system, a system that can be managed in a way that does not create red tape either for the donor, for the recipient or for the administrator. In view of the fact that, through the examination of the proposal by the Committee, there may be other issues that one should consider in this matter, the whole Committee was behind the proposal, which means that we are now asking the Government to come back to the Storting as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget with a case to this effect. The Committee therefore considers that, at this stage, the Storting should not decide whether to change the lower limit of the amount. I will commend everyone in the committee, both the proposers and the others, for demonstrating the ability to find good proposals for decisions that can make the gift-enhancing system, which is a good system, even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e593	There is full agreement in this Chamber that research is important for the future. There is full agreement that everyone should do what they can to contribute to increased research. There is also full agreement that one should increase the research effort to 3 pst. of gross domestic product. Since that decision was taken in this room, the share of research funding in relation to GDP has declined — from 1.7 pst. of gross domestic product at 1,5 pst. of gross domestic product. We are at the bottom of the Nordic region in terms of research efforts. There is a great potential for following up on what this hall has unanimously adopted. I think honesty is the longest. I think it's hard to be absolutely sure that by 2010 we'll be able to achieve the goal of a 3 pst research effort. of GDP if no radical action is taken. The Progress Party has proposed to increase the funding for the Research Fund by DKK 34 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. We have proposed to change the distribution between public and private according to their share of GDP. We want to increase the public effort from 1 pst. to 1.4 pst. and reduce the private from 2 pst. to 1.6 pst., to show that we need to make radical change measures if we're to be able to achieve the goals that all in this room agree on. It's not long until 2010. That means we have a lot to do in a very, very short time. The gift-enhancing scheme is one of the measures used to stimulate increased private contributions to research, i.e. private donations to research, for which there has actually been little tradition in the Norwegian context. It's been a very successful arrangement. There are many who have used it, and there are many institutions that have benefited from the gift-enhancing scheme. The problem is that the scheme has a limitation that is a pretty strong constraint that at least ordinary people can contribute to research, and that is that the minimum amount to trigger gift enhancement is 5 million. kr. It's a high amount. If a person is serious about investing in research, this limit should be reduced radically. In principle, in the proposal for a representative, the Progress Party proposed setting the limit at NOK 500000. I would like to boast very strongly of the Committee and the rapporteur for the second time from this chair, because there has been a radical change in the attitude of the government parties to good proposals, including those of the Progress Party, which has made it for the second time in this Chamber an overall committee that has found good solutions to practical challenges. Of course, the Progress Party is pleased with the impact we have received, but we are even more happy on behalf of research that we are now getting a new assessment of the lower limit to trigger gift enhancement. Maybe 500,000 kroner is not the right amount, but we will have plenty of opportunity to get back to that. Maybe the amount limit should be lower, maybe it should be slightly higher, but the goal must be that we seriously put in place the measures that it is possible to put in place, in order at least to do what we can to achieve the objective of 3 pst. There's an unusually long way to go. It's longer to the goal of 3 pst. than it was when it was adopted, and it's for thought. I hope that the cooperation that has developed within the Committee, and which I also believe the Council of State will help to stimulate by opening up constructive and creative – and we are pleased – will continue in areas that are important to the nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e617	The gift-enhancing scheme established by the Government of Bondevik II in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 20 for 2004-2005, Will for Research, has proved to be a right, important and interesting tool for triggering private contributions to basic research. The target to use at least 3 pst. GDP for research purposes by 2010 is an important objective, which was also the subject of previous speeches, but it is at risk of becoming a speck. The vision, as the 3 pst objective, was to ensure that Norway has a knowledge-based and competitive business life in the future. It was decided with cross-political agreement when Stortinget dealt with the research communication in 2005. Red-green politicians like to point out – even in the main hall, although moderated a bit by the case rapporteur today – the lack of private research effort as one of the main reasons why the Government has problems in fulfilling its own promises. It may be a loving lightning conductor for self-imposed rest cuts and austerity in research, but finding scapegoats doesn't solve the challenge, although it can be a fun and exciting exercise. Norwegian Industry has shown, on a few occasions in the last two years, that industrial research in nominal krona has been reduced in the last two years. This has something to do with the signals you send out, and with the means you are willing to use to achieve a goal, as was also the case with the previous speeches. For in previous years, i.e. during the previous government, there was strong growth in this type of research. If you want to increase private research efforts, you need to create conditions to trigger such efforts. But it doesn't. Schemes such as the TaxFUNN scheme and today's theme, the gift-enhancing scheme, are treated more favourably by this government. When private donors have responded so positively to this scheme that they have given more than the Government has foreseen in the budgets, other research funds have been redispatched to meet the government's share of the grant. I would think it might seem reasonable to discourage potential private donors from seeing their gift become a burden on other parts of the research. This gives me an opportunity to say something about giving culture. We have no widespread and liberal giving culture in Norway. It has some consequences that one creates a social structure in which most of the things are to be arranged by the state. It's not just a giver culture you're missing, you're also missing a destination culture. Fresh examples of intense debates after private gifts to research should be good evidence of this. At the same time, we should note that there is no doubt that the U.S. world hegemony in the field of excellent universities and research is based on a marked and visible donor and recipient culture. It is gratifying that there is broad consensus in the Committee that the gift-enhancing scheme is an important instrument for triggering private research funding. The right is in favour of proposals which could lead to a wider use of the scheme. With today's government, the 3 pst. goal appears more like an unobligatory vision. Then I can – a little spooky – add that I hope you do not confuse this with the zero vision in the field of transportation. We think it makes sense to lower the lower limit of the scheme. It could bring the scheme to the attention of a wider donor group, generalise the scheme and thus contribute to the development of both a donor and a recipient culture. But we're in doubt whether a lower limit of $500,000 is the right and reasonable amount limit. We also find, unfortunately, reason to stress that an extension of the gift-enhancing scheme should not be at the expense of resources for other research. We therefore attend to a thorough treatment of the gift-enhancing scheme before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e634	The committee setting is unanimous, and it is good that our committee can present such matters in the Stortinget. But I take the word to clarify some important assumptions, some expectations. The expectations are that when we get a case, the case will help to develop it, among other things. The representative, Gundersen, now said that we in Norway are being accepted for a gift culture, call it a mesen culture. We've had it like this in Norway, we've discovered, that the man Trond Mohn in Bergen has gradually become known, first in connection with a quarter of a billion dollars to the University of Bergen, so in connection with a significant amount to the University of Tromsø, and then in connection with a gift to the University of Bergen, at least for a while, creating confusion at the Government. But I see that the government has decided to deal kindly with this, so I'm not going to come back to it. But that might illustrate that we're not used to this. For my part, I have noticed that from the time NHO invited to a seminar on creating such a culture, a lot of gifts have actually come. At that time I remember that Jens Ulltveit-Moe said something like this: In Norway, approx. 400 families with a fortune of 200 million. kr or more. Are you approx. 50 years, you can shed 20 million. kr the rest of your life. There should be something left for societal purposes. It was the invitation to a very open seminar, where the whole purpose was to think creatively. The left has a expectation, when we get back a case, and when we also get later budgets, that gift enhancement is seen as an important tool, and that we also look at the lower limit. We're open about how far down one should go, as others have been going on, but we think it's an important tool. It is also important to stress that when we receive gifts, we must not later be reprisals of what we received when Trond Mohn gave his great gift, because then the former minister of knowledge, to whom the current Council of State has now taken over part of the portfolio, seized that when a gift came in, the contribution of the state was simply financed by taking from another part of the research. So what do you do? Point 1: Research is weakened. But – paragraph 2 – you break a contract with civil society. Because the contract with civil society, that is, those who are going to give something, is that when you give something, you trigger something in addition, and not something that just needs to be involved in moving money into a budget. With these expectations, the left will follow the settings presented. We expect that we will be helped to create a good culture around giving gifts, that it is honest, honest and respectful to do so, and that we will never ever experience that when someone gives a big gift, you age and move money from other parts of the research budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e649	I am pleased with the cooperation that has obviously been in the committee, and with the commitment that emerges here in the Committee's debate on research efforts, including private ones. Under this scheme, the public contributes 25 pst. in gift-enhancing for private gifts for basic research, known to be the lower limit of 5 million. kr. The gift enhancement scheme was launched in the latest research report, St.meld. No 20 for 2004-2005, Will for Research, as an action to strengthen the contribution of private donations to basic research. The background was that Norway, compared with other countries, has a low element of such research funding, some of which has been discussed by representatives. I want to say that I am pleased that the research in recent years has received many great gifts. As the representative of Dørum said, this government and this Council of State are kind to such gifts. The fact that we have received many great gifts may indicate that the scheme works as intended. Private gifts are a positive addition to the funds that come from public sources and companies' own investments in research. Although the public has had and will continue to have a primary responsibility for precisely basic research, public funding will not be able to capture or realise all good research projects. Increased elements of private gifts will enhance the diversity of research funding. I believe that increased diversity is positive in itself. It may also help to capture research areas that fall outside public priorities. The scheme assumes that the recipient institution can guarantee that both the gift and the public gift enhancement are used for long-term basic research. It therefore implies a responsibility to receive a gift. Responsibility is partly linked to ensuring scientific certainty. Recipient institutions also need to assess whether they can carry out research with a scale and device that provides for both the researchers and the scientific equipment available. The background for setting the amount limit at 5 million, relatively high. kr, was that one wanted a system that could accommodate, while at the same time being easy to manage. In addition, the assessment in the research communication was that there were already relatively good schemes for private donations that did not fall under the gift enhancement scheme and that this was also a new scheme. But of course, I'm open to re-assessing $5 million. kr is the correct amount limit. I take note of the proposal to reduce the amount limit to 500000 kroner. The Ministry has also received other input into changes to the scheme, including: in the case of who may be recipients of the gift. The challenge here is to keep the administrative costs at a reasonable level in relation to being a recipient and managing such a scheme. I fully agree that we have not had a culture for this in Norway. We want to welcome it, and we want to build a good system for it. But it also sets some challenges and demands for us, that is. the Ministry of State and the Council of State to administer it and the institutions to which the gifts are given. Here we have to be neat and proper, so that the quality is guaranteed. Both changes in the amount limit and questions about who is to be included in the circuit of donors need to be carefully considered. I think it is important to see these issues in context, and will therefore go through several aspects of the scheme. Such a review will have to be based on the experience that we have gained in the relatively short period of time the scheme has existed. Furthermore, it would be natural for me to involve the Norwegian Research Council, which administers the scheme, in such an assessment. Therefore, as the Committee wishes, I will come back to the Storting with an overall assessment of the scheme under the 2008 Revised National Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e671	It is very good that we agree on the importance of this scheme. But the Progress Party believes that it is also of the utmost importance that the funds that are triggered by this scheme come in addition to the ordinary appropriations for research and do not absorb other areas of research by smoking, as we have seen. My question to the Council of State is really as simple as: Will the Council of State make sure it doesn't happen again?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e678	What has been done in this scheme is that funds have been redeployed that had not yet been used – that is, unused funds from projects and programmes that were already delayed – to follow up the 25 % that were the responsibility of the state. The possibility of some flexibility has been used. But I notice absolutely the representative's input, and that will be a very important part of my review. Of course, it should not go beyond research that is in progress or research funding that has been granted. Instead, some flexibility has been used in relation to funds that were not used. I will promise the representative that this will be added to existing appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e686	I took note of the fact that the Council of State in the letter of reply to the Committee included the Cancer Association and that they had asked that the gift-enhancing scheme also be checked for other recipients. It was also repeated here that it would be assessed the inclusion in the review. I think it's a hard way to go. There is a risk of misunderstanding with this system, which is perceived to be quite easy to understand by mixing too many purposes. The situation of the Cancer Association is both regrettable and special, as it accounts for a very large proportion of the funds for cancer research in Norway and needs to be given a lot of attention. But I ask you to take into account that it might not be wise to drag everything into a system that has already proved to work quite well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e693	Now, when I'm going to review this to present it to the Biggest of Spring, it'll be natural for me to look very closely at the interfaces in relation to other parts of our research system and other kinds of gifts. I can reassure the representative that this will be included in the overall assessment. I hope, in good cooperation with Stortinget, to be able to arrive at a system that is even better than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e700	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e713	Storting goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29.ana.ud1973e769	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
