ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e105	At the request of the nutrition committee, the president will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the working party 45 minutes, the party 25 minutes, the right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the centre 10 minutes and the left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e112	Our job as business politicians is to pursue a policy that increases value creation. It does the government, which is investing in a good and active enterprise policy. Among other things, the Ministry of Industry and Trade is one of the budget winners next year. The government bets where we are good. One example is the maritime sector. We are now introducing Europe's best tax regime for Norwegian fleets, environmental investments in shipping, and continuing the net wage system for seafarers. These are some of the measures of the Government's maritime strategy. Nearly $2 billion will be allocated to this sector next year. Travel life is another area in which it will be invested. I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus that it must be committed to travel life, which is one of the world's fastest growing industries, where Norway has great potential for development. 215 million. SEK for the profiling of tourism industries next year is record high. I look forward to the national travel strategy to be submitted in a few days’ time. A responsible economic policy is alpha and omega for business. A stable exchange rate and an interest rate trend in line with forecasts are good framework conditions for Norwegian business. By setting up a new state investment fund of SEK 2.2 billion, 500 million there. kr shall be earmarked for investments in the maritime sector, we shall be given a new impetus for economic development by exercising an active ownership of future-oriented projects. The Fund shall provide long-term and risk capital – primarily for start-ups. Furthermore, the Fund shall focus in particular on the five areas of activity referred to in the Soria Moria Declaration, in particular on climate and environmental projects. At this fund establishment, we get a hub where the state can use its capital strength to develop new jobs and ensure that value creation takes place with anchoring here in the country. The North is the most important area of activity in the future. The Northern Territory Strategy of the Government includes: to enable us to realise the industrial potential in the north. It is important that we focus on sustainable growth, with emphasis on value creation and good cross-border neighbourhoods. There will also be a need for close and good cooperation between research institutions and industry. Energy and fisheries are the central areas for industrial development in the north. Other policy areas that need to be developed are travel and space technology. The Norwegian Research Council and Innovation Council are important partners in this work, and the Government has allowed more funds than ever before to these institutions. Nearly $2 billion will be set aside for nutrition research next year. It is quite striking to right the opposition's criticism of the lack of research efforts. The alleged cuts they criticize us for, do not take on real or agreed budgets. The Government's proposals for the State budget indicate that there is a strong commitment in this area. Research and development is crucial in key areas such as climate and environmental action. Mongstad is a good example to set to show that the development of environmental technologies is a good contributor to change and innovation. Another example is the planned gas power plant at Kårstø, where Norwegian operators will compete with international companies to develop the best possible clean-up technology. A short time ago, the Stortinget decided to participate in the EU Competitiveness and Innovation Programme, CIP. This programme will provide Norwegian enterprises with better access to capital, markets and cooperation projects in Europe. The government is busy getting Norway the most back for participation and proposing to allow 80 million. kr in 2008. This is both an active industrial policy and an active European policy. On 1 January 2008 is a date to which all enterprises can enjoy themselves. Not only is there a new day in a new year, this is also the date that Norwegian patent policy accedes to the European Patent Convention, EPC. There's every reason to stand on the sidelines of the congratulations. This will make Norwegian patent policy better and easier to adhere to for Norwegian companies. Through the treatment of ownership messages earlier this year, an important principle of what kind of ownership policies we want to implement was shattered. A follow-up is the purchase by the State of 30 pst. of the axans of Aker Holding AS. This will ensure a long-term industrial ownership and Norwegian anchoring in Aker Kværner. Not least, we will take care of the competences built up by Aker Kværner for many years. In things like this, the lines between the different parts are clearly visible. For example, both the Right and the Left votes against this purchase. But it's a matter we'll come back to later today. In the case of rents in shared companies, the Government has established guidelines whereby the State will vote against the use of options and other option-like arrangements. This testifies to a new course in public ownership. Claims that the state does not have an active ownership policy are thus wrong. Agriculture and forestry represent a relatively high proportion of employment here in the country. What kind of agricultural policy is centrally pursued is of great importance to the different regions around the country. Although there are differing views on today's agricultural policy and transfers to this industry, I see it as crucial for the government's policy that one strengthens the rural profile, and that among others. focuses on the framework conditions for family farming. Odelslova and the Conseil law are a fighter in the fight to ensure settlement, and at the same time they are a good tool for repatriating young people to find their way back to their hometown. Often it will be that these young people have come out to acquire a higher education competence, and a good competence is important to take home that when they are going to take over family use. A lot of the wealth we have here in the country is based on what comes from the sea. Fishing resources are the Community's property, and it is important that we carry out a fisheries policy that ensures that the taxation of these resources is sustainable. It is also important for value creation to benefit coastal communities dependent on fisheries. The government will follow this with a number of permissions over the budget, for example. through a strengthening of the Directorate of Fisheries as a further stepping up of efforts towards illegal, unregulated and unreported fisheries. The State must take responsibility for ensuring efficient infrastructure. There must be a holistic and effective transport policy, with the means to operate and maintain roads and to ensure broadband for all parts of the country. Furthermore, Norwegian industry must secure enough energy at a competitive price within the EEA legislation. And we have to be willing to use the gas in Norway. I am pleased that the Government is taking up the framework conditions for the power-generating industry. Work is of high priority. We should also be best at the environment in the world. And it's possible to be able while we're exploiting the oil and the gas for industrial purposes. For many years, governance has imposed environmental requirements on businesses, which gives Norwegian companies a competitive advantage in an increasingly strong global competition. The Norwegian knowledge society requires a sound education system that provides all equal opportunities and continuous build-up of competences. Norway’s advantage is great economic freedom of action, a large knowledge base and a high population outnumbered, with a large number of working women. We have extensive access to natural resources, large access to raw materials and to energy and unique clusters of competences within important areas. This gives us competitive advantages that the Labour Party will not scour, but exploit – something that this budget for next year is a good proof of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e155	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e158	The working party is the big one, and in this way it shall be the leading one, the party in this government cooperation. If we look at agricultural policy, the Labour Party has previously had agricultural ministers who have been willing to reform agricultural policy. Former Minister of Agriculture, Øyågen, is a good example of this. So far during this ageing period, the Workers' Party has been absent in agricultural policy. The willingness of the Labour Party to reform agricultural policy has been totally invisible, and agricultural policy has been abandoned to the conservative forces of the Centre Party. Now I have been told that the Workers' Party has set up a working group to give the party an agricultural policy, and then it is natural to ask: When will we see that the Workers' Party takes action on agricultural policy and becomes offensive to that policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e167	The Labour Party has been our offensive in agricultural policy for many years. We've been busy securing family farming, housing patterns, and districts all over the country. This does not mean that one should permanently lock an agricultural policy. Therefore, of course, the Labour Party is concerned about discussing and evaluating today's agricultural policy, and there is a process, as the representative also pointed out, that the Labour Party is in the process. I'm not going to be fixed when the Labour Party wants to launch a so-called new agricultural policy, but there's a dialogue within the government party and in the Labour Party all the time to improve a policy, because the world is full of challenges and changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e172	The tourism industry is a major and important industry and contributes to many forward-looking jobs across the country. Especially important is the industry of District Norway. On this basis, former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Børge Burnde presented an action plan for the tourism industry in the summer of 2005. The red-green government has said that it will work for several full-year jobs in travel life. We now experience the opposite, with the NOx charge that particularly affects Coastal and Fjord-Norway, and cruise companies that Holland America Line has stopped large parts of its calls to Norwegian ports due to the charge. The tourist fishing quota is tightened up, and we still experience winter roads entering one of Norway's main tourist lighthouses, the world heritage area around the tourist community of Geiranger. Is the representative Oppebøen Hansen satisfied and comfortable that the Government is pursuing such a passive and absent policy in relation to the tourism industry along the coast and in our districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e184	Claims that the Government does not conduct an active and offensive travel policy are incorrect. No other government has spent this much money and has allowed this industry as much money as today's government. In the course of two years, from 2005 to 2007, the Republic of Norway has a double approach to the profiling of travel life in Norway. The government was early in notifying a new travel strategy for the country, and within six to seven days, the government will present the strategy paper that will tell the representative Røbekk Nørve that this government will conduct an active and good travel policy for the whole country, which will create great employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e191	The Christian People's Party is concerned that business needs to be built from below, so we listen to business, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. It seems that the Government and the Labour Party are more concerned about business building from above, and they don't seem very good at listening. Already last year, there was a problem with the Treasure Fund. This year we have had a long discussion about the taxation of fleets. The conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises are also not as they appear to be good. Many of the tools for business are outside our framework. The Christian People's Party has been busy for a long time that we have to remove the inheritance tax on a generation change in family businesses when the next generation is moving on. This fee is a huge problem for family businesses. My question to the representative host: Can we assume that the Labour Party will be involved in removing the inheritance fee for a generation change in family businesses when the next generation is going to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e202	First of all, the claim that this government will not listen to business. It's completely wrong. The best way to measure the functioning of business policy is to take into account the business situation today. There we see that optimism is very great among today's business leaders. The order situation in the Norwegian competitive industry has never been as good as it is today. So the employment has increased by over 150,000 people over the course of these two years this government has run. Nor is it true that the red-green government will not have a transition into Norwegian business. On the contrary, we facilitate a more active industrial policy. When it comes to the issue linked to the Norwegian tax regime, there is a case that the Government will come back to when one has had a complete review of the charging system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e211	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e215	The representative, Oppebøen Hansen, began his speech by pointing out that the Government had put forward a maritime strategy for the shipping industry, and that the best tax regime in Europe had been given. I don't quite know what planet Upbeøen Hansen has been on in the last half of the year when he hasn't realized that the entire shipping industry has strongly protested against tax with retroactive force, which, in addition to all probability, is unconstitutional. That the representative Upbebøen Hansen did not mention it in his post, you only get to register, but had there been a certain team in the post, he would certainly also mention it. One of the areas that separates the Progress Party from the Government Parties and, to the extent that also part of the other parties in the Chamber, is Norwegian agricultural policy. We are pleased to record that the Right is coming after us in that area. We in the Progress Party believe that agricultural policy should definitely do something about it. If you look at the farm layout, it is estimated that approx. 1600 use is to be reduced to the next year. Looking at the statistics, in 1989 there were 99 000 agricultural holdings, in 2006 there were 51 000 – in other words, there are still closures in the agricultural holdings. This happens despite increasing transfers year by year and protecting the sector – in indirect and direct support, it amounts to DKK 20 billion a year. Norwegian fishing industry exports about DKK 40 billion. It can only mean that the agricultural policy that is being pursued today is wrong. It's old-fashioned. It's passive. It's socialist. It is based on a situation 50–60 years back in time. What Norwegian agriculture needs is a modern, offensive and forward-looking agricultural policy, not just to meet the internal conditions in Norway, but not least the world we have around us. Norwegian farmers must be allowed to become more independent. They must be free of nutrition. It is necessary to strengthen private ownership and to provide them with opportunities for niche production. They must be allowed to focus on the consumer, produce organic food if they want, and they must be allowed to produce brands of high quality, because the Norwegian farmer is probably one of the best in the world and has the basis for producing the world's best products. You have to give him that opportunity. The consumer is willing to pay for quality. That's what you're looking at in a number of other areas, and it'll probably apply within the food segment. There is also reason to review the bureaucracy in agriculture. Some have estimated that it is up to 10,000 annual works occupied by bureaucrats. Today’s Economy had made a calculation on 2 August 2006 that showed that it is about one bureaucrat per year. Dozens of farmers, i.e. approx. 5,000 bureaucrats. So there's every reason to take a complete review in that area. I mentioned that Norwegian fishing industry exports for approx. $40 billion a year. It is then interesting to see how this government treats Norwegian fishing industry. Let me start with the NOx tax, which this government has introduced. One may still be driving and negotiating to find a solution to the NOx charge. That's what you did a year ago. When you hear from one party, i.e. the business community, who is negotiating with the Government, it is quite clear that this government does not want a solution in terms of the NOx tax, because it has become so convenient to get this money – billions – injected right into the treasury. It can't be the government's will to find a solution to the NOx problem when you haven't been able to get it done. The business community is making and making recordings and constructive solutions, and the minority in Stortinget has made a lot of proposals in this way, but you can't get a solution. I must say that disappoints me. I have noticed that many people have commented on the NOx fee, including from the government parties, so I have to say that I am very excited about the comments made by the representative Breck and not least the representative Gullvåg's posts today. He has a habit of clinging to his own government, so I hope both TV 2 and NRK turn on the cameras when Gullvåg comes up to the speaker's chair. Because I expect Gullvåg to say the same thing from this pulpit as he said in the election campaign. That could be so funny. There has been a major debate in the media on structuring, especially for vessels under 15 metres. I notice that it is an incredible arrogance from the Minister for Fisheries, who does not want a dialogue with the industry at all when they point out a number of weaknesses that the majority of the population have caused to the industry. There were weaknesses that were not in the debate when we dealt with the structural communication. So I notice that the Council of State does not want a dialogue with the industry, but only runs right through it. Even SV's fisheries policy spokespersons were out and criticised their own government for structuring vessels under 15 metres. It's interesting to see how it also conflicts within the Government. But I have to say that I am disappointed on behalf of many fishermen, who do not get the impression of having a dialogue with the Council of State. I note with amazement that today the Progress Party alone is trying to find a solution for newly recruited fishing fleet. In the past, there has been a unanimous growth in this respect. After a while, the lot has fallen from behind, and today we're all alone trying to get a recruit for the fishing fleet. What the reason is that the other parties have fallen away, I don't know, but I expect them to come up with their views during this debate. Then I think it's a little strange that the Progress Party is the only party that wants a big message about self-afraid. We have been concerned about it in the past and addressed to the Council of State the question of looking at the economic framework conditions of the self-government industry. It labors with both poor market and difficult conditions. But it is not possible to get a pass on to them either. It could also be one of the last times you really have to deal with that question, because it's probably a matter of time before this is over. It is important for the fishing industry to have good working conditions, and then it is important for the Food Safety Authority to do the job it is supposed to do, and for the Minister of Agriculture to do the job he is going to do to the Food Safety Authority. Because I have to say that I am deeply concerned that the Food Safety Authority is carrying out such a poor control of fish and fishing companies that the ESA has reclaimed this complaint. With regard to the Russian Food Safety Authority, which controls imports of both salmon and herring, it is clear that they do not need much ingenuity in order to impose penalties on Norwegian fishing industry, simply because the controls carried out by the Food Safety Authority are too poor. So here, the Council of State absolutely has to tighten up the Food Authority and do the job he's going to do. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words to the Consulate General in Edinburgh and to the Minneapolis, which is now being closed. There are major Norwegian trade interests in these areas, and it is important to get a network in this way. I'm worried that you're doing this from the Government's side. In other words, this government does not focus on the business environment and needs of the rest of the world, but it is increasingly focused on assistance. I noticed that in Minneapolis, Walter Mondale was going to be the driving force and being a collector. He's 79. If he represents the future of this government, I have to say I'm worried. He is a retired and elderly politician who should have done something quite different than caring for Norwegian interests in that way. In conclusion, let me address the proposals on which the Progress Party shares with other parties, and the proposals on which we are alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e262	The proposals to which the representative Mr Korsberg referred have been taken up. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e267	Yes, there was a lot of black measurement here! The policy of the Progress Party lacks a soundness, no doubt about it. This setting is full of paradox. The progress party says they want to cut the bureaucracy all the way down to the bone, while they want the public to have more tasks, for example, I can. mention within the control of illegal fishing. In the case of agricultural agreements, an agreement that will apply until the next summer, the Progress Party will close overnight to remove it and cut with a total of DKK 7.1 billion in the agricultural budget. Is it modern agricultural policy? But perhaps the worst: the irresponsible economic policy. The progress game will run at 15 billion dollars more than the Government adds. Instead of pursuing a policy that provides business with good and stable framework conditions through stable exchange rates and prudent interest rates, I note that the Progress Party will set up a completely different course.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e278	With regard to the interest rate, I do not know whether the representative Upbeøen Hansen has been on this globe and received all the interest increases from the Bank of Norway after this government joined. And when it comes to economic policy, we see that we are still getting support from more people. Recently, we were actually supported by the representative of Gullvåg in the debate on the transport sector, where he criticised his own government for not being able to bet on the railways. We're clearly cutting the red tape. We believe that there is a need and a clear opportunity for reduction there. But at the same time – it’s important to clarify, and I’m glad that I get questions about – we also have the ability to prioritise what’s important to bet on, including. The food inspection and the checks to be carried out in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e285	First of all, I would like to distance myself from the criticism that Mr Korsberg brings against the Minister for Fisheries. We have a fisheries minister who has absolutely dialogue with the fishermen. I think she spends as much of her time on dialogue as it's possible at all. I hope that Korsberg will be able to withdraw it, for I think that is completely unreasonable claims made from the pulpit of the Stortinge. Then go to agriculture. $7 billion is going to be cut in agriculture. And my question to Korsberg is, have you gone in and evaluated what that means, for example. for his own county, Troms? What does that mean for Balsfjord or Målselv or Karlsøy? What does that mean for those places that you cut $7 billion in transfers to agriculture? Will there be any agriculture left in Troms? Will there be any agriculture left in the Nordic countries or in Finland? Has the Progress Party assessed this? Is it just a figure and a figure, or is it the basis for thorough assessments? Or do you actually want to wind up Norwegian agriculture, if you ignore the Jären and the areas around Mjösa?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e292	Of course, with regard to the criticism I made by the Minister for Fisheries, I am in favour of it. Because I read, among other things, The fishing blade and the fisherman, and there I find a massive criticism of the Minister for Fisheries. I have participated in the annual meeting of the Norwegian shipping industry. There was no one from the Red-Green parties or from the Council's office. Aalesund’s Shipbuilding Association is also an example. So that the Council of State lacks dialogue with the fishing industry, I am in favour. Then to the agricultural policy. If the Progress Party were to conduct its own policy for the state of Troms or for other states, it would have become special. Of course, the reduced transfers shall also apply to the Troms State. But what we're recording is that the number of farms is being reduced year by year. Transfers are increasing, and agriculture is being protected by customs. In other words, you have a wrong agricultural policy, and that's what's the starting point. It is, of course, fully possible to implement the policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e299	Norwegian timber processing is in difficulty. We have great territorial advantage in processing timber in Norway: the quality level and generations of skilled people. What does the Progress Party want with Norwegian woodworking? Draw the picture of how the party wants Norwegian timber processing to be in five years' time, so that people can understand what they want to use the Great Britain Chair to facilitate how this important industry, which is of great importance for the country's appearance, will be in five years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e304	That's a big and a good question. There are several things you can do here, but let me start with the energy. The most important thing is to develop more energy, so that Norwegian timber processing and other types of industry have ample access to power at a competitive price. It is also important to make some heavy investments in the transport sector, so that the road network can be built up, so that timber cars can be driven with more timber. It was just a look at the Evening Post that showed the distortion of competition between Sweden and Norway in terms of timber and transport. We must ensure that the woodworking industry improves conditions of competition in Norway. Then we also have to look at the level of taxes and taxes, and I am sure Lundtigen knows what is on the financial committee. I do not think it has been lacking on proposals from the Progress Party in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e309	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e312	The aim of the industrial policy in Norway is to maximise value creation. If we are to assess developments in recent years, with strong growth, falling unemployment and rising public sector revenues, last documented in the new age proposition, it is good to note that the Norwegian economy is doing well. It's positive, but it can also easily become a commercial sleeping cushion. The government parties wrote in their main comment that after two years with the Stoltenberg government, business is doing well. This suggests that these representatives are living in the belief that the government’s excellent industrial policy is doing well. I think it would be good for the debate on nutrition policy to remove that kind of self-criticism, and rather to look at how the different areas of business policy actually work for Norwegian businesses. What is relevant is whether industrial policy contributes positively or negatively to the development of business in the various areas. Last week, the European Reform Barometer, which compared industrial policy developments in areas such as the labour market, public finances, innovation and research and business climate, was published by the NHO. Norway is doing very well, perhaps not surprisingly, in terms of public finances. On the other hand, we are weak in the labour market, we are weak in innovation and research, and we are weak in the business environment. We are beaten by both Sweden and Denmark and are on average in the EU. This is a more relevant measure of how we actually deliver in the field of industrial policy. It should be possible for a government that came to the table and covered in 2005 and an economy that was growing rapidly to deliver better results than this analysis shows. On the right, many policy areas need to have a common objective of increasing growth in the Norwegian economy. The right’s alternative state budget has a horizontal priority of actions that can contribute to increased well-being in the future. In the setting, the Right points to proposals for more money for research and innovation – out of the government's rest section. We point to the need for lower taxes and taxes, and in particular we say no to increased taxes on Norwegian ownership of Norwegian companies by tightening up the taxes on wealth. We suggest increasing investment in higher education and school, and we spend more money on road construction. The right proposes a total of 31 measures that can improve labour supply in the Norwegian economy, while at the same time tightening the budgetary framework to reduce the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. SEK 1.6 billion may not be a long step with a significantly larger gross domestic product, but it is a pretty clear priority in an alternative state budget if you look it up to other priorities that other parties do. These are key elements of the Right Business Policy, although the proposals are not addressed by the Economic Committee of the EEA. The Economic and Social Committee, on the other hand, is responsible for ownership policy. We will deal with the government's purchase in Aker Holding later today. I just want to mention the great contradiction that lies in the fact that the Minister of Industry creates the impression that the Government is concerned about weak Norwegian ownership environments, while the Government is increasing the tax heavily on private Norwegian ownership. It would actually have been beneficial for Norwegian value creation and Norwegian ownership if the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Finance had made a speech at the Chamber on the attitude to the extent of private Norwegian ownership in Norwegian companies. The increase in property taxes by tightening up the 80 p.m. rule and by removing the stock discount is a rather targeted policy to weaken Norwegian private ownership. In this context, I would like to refer to a proposal from an overall opposition that the Government should present a big message on how to strengthen Norwegian private ownership. That proposal was made in connection with the announcement of ownership in the spring, and of course it was rejected by the government parties, because there is no policy on how to strengthen Norwegian private ownership. The management of country ownership has been a turbulent chapter in the last two years. In particular, it is disappointing to see developments after the treatment of the ownership message, which appeared to be a rather elucidating signal when it comes to cleanness and predictability. Development has gone in the wrong direction. The process of options in Norsk Hydro and the removal of Jan Reinås as Chairman of the Board of Directors were exceptionally amateur-managed and clearly broke with the rules of the rules of ownership and corporate governance – rules of the game that Stortinget joined just a few months earlier. The state as owner of the business must be principled and tidy. There has to be consistency between life and learning. This is not just a matter of whether the Government can trust the governments and the companies. It is also about whether companies, boards, employees, other shareholders, Oslo exchange, the other investors in Norway can have confidence in the State and in the Minister of Industry’s management of ownership of 1/3 of the listed companies. The impression is that ownership policy is superficial and media-driven, and that we have a Minister of Economic Affairs who is able to put pressure on us from chance if it comes from his own ranks. This weakens the reputation of the country as its owner and weakens the basis for the ownership of the country in the business world. The government proposes to revive old SND Invest by establishing SEK 2.2 billion in a fund to run with direct investment in individual companies. This bears the mark of symbol politics. We have many initiatives on the ownership side through the Seed Fund and the Argentum Fund, and we record that the business community of the NHO, Norwegian Industry, the commercial and service industries and the Business Association is not particularly enthusiastic about this fund. So rather, the Right proposes to use the money to increase the Research Fund, and does there a grip that is actually needed in terms of strengthening value creation in Norway. The maritime cluster, with its DKK 100 billion in value creation and 100,000 employees, is defined as a strategic nourishment by the Government. The Minister of Economic Affairs therefore presented a maritime strategy on 3 October entitled ‘Should course’. It wasn't that much to put on in the strategy of the Minister of Industry, and for all things, it's great at 100 million. kr more for maritime research. But when the Minister of Economic Affairs boasts of this 100 million, it is strongly against political parodiment. kr to maritime research, while a few days later the Minister of Finance proposes DKK 1.4 billion in annual tax incentives for this industry. The commitment to the Minister for Industry is then 7.1 pst. by the fiscal austerity of the Minister of Finance. This would rather deserve the title ‘steep course on land’. It is tempting to draw the parallel to the so-called ‘nutritional jewelry box’ mentioned by the former Minister of Industry. In any case, the tax claim of the Government is likely to end up in the Supreme Court, because it is contrary to the Constitution § 97. So the question is whether the maritime strategy holds a tough course towards the Supreme Court. Individual representatives from the government parties, who themselves have hardly any work experience, have been on TV and in newspapers and have said that shipping companies must stop complaining and start working. This tells us a little about the government-business dialogue. I think that many in the business community had expected that the red-green representatives, especially from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, were able to see that a cut in equity in this industry of 14 billion kroner actually leads to lower activity and less investment in the maritime cluster along the coast. The industry says that the consequence can be up to 70 billion kroner in less investment capacity along the coast. If this leads to correctness, this is a huge loss of activity in this industry. Fisheries policy is also characterised by weak dialogue between the Government and fishermen, and with associated frustration. It is easy to confirm this when we read the fishing press, and we hear it when we are out at the industry and visiting, for example. annual meetings of the Confederation of Fishermen. There have been two years of structural freezes, we have got a new structural policy without a broad anchor in Stortinget, fishermen have had increased delivery obligations, and we have a district quota system that does not contribute to increased competitiveness. Most seriously, the government has made this industry a fiscal balancing item through the NOx tax. Both the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Industry have argued in various contexts that the NOx tax should not be a fiscal charge. The NOx fee is a fiscal fee. That fee contributes 200 million. kr only from the fishing industry into the treasury in 2007 and it will be a fiscal levy also in 2008. As a result, this government has significantly weakened the competitiveness of the fishing industry without even achieving positive environmental impacts. It also tells a little about how low the fishing industry is prioritised when increasing the net pay system for seafarers by hundreds of millions. The agricultural deduction is increased for the farmers, but there is no room for an increase of 60 million. on the deduction of fishing vessels which could compensate for some of the differences in competition between shipping and the fishing industry. The right has proposed exemption from the NOx fee for fish and cruise. We are proposing increased fishing deductions. We are proposing a better structural policy, and we are proposing to wind up the regional quota system. In agriculture, the decline and conversion continue despite the fact that the League of Bonds and the Center Party got their husband in the department. It tells some people about agricultural policy that we now have problems being self-sufficient in meat and milk in our own market. I think these are conversions that will continue no matter how much you talk about small scale and varied usage structure. Right-wing wants a more forward-looking business policy, a policy that actually increases value creation, provides safe jobs, and provides new jobs in the future. That is what we have proposed in our State budget. In conclusion, I would like to address the proposals that have been put forward by the Right in the vote, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e364	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e370	As I know Right, it's primarily the party of self-employed people. Right try to give the impression of being a responsible party, a party that people can trust. Entrepreneurs need financial stability. But the representative Hansen was really little concerned with the importance of agriculture in Norway, and he said very little – I had almost said: When the light began to shine, he came to it for many of us important area. In its alternative budget, the Right cuts the agricultural transfers by 1.9 billion kroner, 33 000 kroner per year. annual work. It is based on a negotiated agreement, and I wonder how cut should work for the farmer in 2008 if this had become a reality. It would be reasonable to ask: is it simply a first step closer to the Progress Party's agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e379	I would say to the representative Eng that the Right joins many of the important objectives of agriculture. We want active agriculture throughout the country. We want to have a production that's on today's level. We want to take care of the cultural landscape. It says a little about the situation in Norwegian agriculture in the world's richest country that the average size of a dairy farm is around 19 cows, that the average sheep population is about 90 winter-fed sheep, and it is quite clear that with the level of transfer we have in Norway, we can easily achieve the objectives to which the Right subscribes, if we facilitate more forward-looking agricultural policy, where we get more and more effective use, and where we strengthen ownership and implement deregulation. So with 12 billion kroner of subsidies and a border guard, it's fully possible to achieve many of the important goals that we have for agriculture, without getting the negative development that we get with this government, where almost no one manages to run profitably.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e386	The representative, Hansen, was concerned about this with state ownership in his contribution. I've read some history, at least in leisure, and I congratulate myself on the fact that the Right has not had a great deal of power in Norway by the important crossroads, when the concession laws for hydropower are being dealt with, or when we deal with how to take care of the natural resources in the sea, such as. oil and gas. The right has always been negative for the country to be a major owner and for the country to have control over important natural resources. My questions to Hansen are as follows: If the Right comes into government, is it that the Right aims to sell into companies like StatoilHydro, Statkraft, Statskog or for that part of DnB NOR? Is it a problem that we have a strong state owner? Is there something that kind of bothers Norway, that the state owns too much, and that the state has control of natural resources the way you have? If they come into government, will the Right sell itself down?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e393	Then I will take the opportunity to welcome Inge Ryan to the Business Committee, and I look forward to a good cooperation here. If Inge Ryan had also used his free time to read matters that we have dealt with in the nutrition committee, for example. the ownership message, he would get a good picture of the Right ownership policy. We see the need for the state to have ownership in some important industries, including: based on natural resources, where we secure head offices in Norway. The ownership of the state at Oslo Børs is about 30 p.m. – by the whole of Oslo Børs. It means that it's important for us to avoid that the state negatively affects the rest of business through its ownership, and it's important for us that businesses develop in a commercially good way. This means that today's ownership policy, which is characterised by unforeseeableness, immaturity and buying-in, which is difficult to justify in principle, gives a bad signal to business. But when it comes to this massive sale that the representative Ryan is afraid of, I don't think he'll worry that it'll be the next period of policy when the Right takes over the government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e400	More than the entire Right minor consumption of money over the State budget has been taken from an income agreement, almost NOK 2 billion. There is a lack of respect for agreements concluded between the country and agriculture. It's irresponsible – that's what Right knows. But the party's peasant hostility is so thorough and so strong that it's such a big crowd that it has to act. At the same time, the representative here says that the Right’s policy will clearly strengthen Norwegian agriculture’s ability to achieve its objectives. It is a good application for membership in the theoretical world of social economists. The centre party is responsible for the sea-going operator. We are in a situation of increased international prices and shortages of important livestock products in Norway. Does Right want to use prices as a means of balancing consumption and demand, i.e. increasing farm prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e409	First of all, I would like to remind the representative, Mr Lundtegen, that the Right voted against the agricultural agreement on a principle basis. We believe it is fundamentally wrong that an industry on an exclusive basis should be able to negotiate its terms with the Government, and that the Stortinge should not decide how to use the means that go to agriculture, and therefore not take political responsibility for development. It says quite a lot about the situation in the agricultural policy that, after two years with the Central Party Council, the representative Lundtägen in the United Nations says that we have the biggest crisis in Norwegian agriculture in 40 years. It tells us all about the failure of the Central Party's agricultural policy and how little it is actually able to give the industry competitive framework conditions. I don't think it's a good solution to increase the prices of agricultural products. What needs to be is a more forward-looking, larger-use farm, more professional farming and a development in line with what is happening in the rest of the business world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e418	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e421	I am very proud and pleased that we have a government that will pursue an active industrial policy. I think it is important that we are clear about it, because industrial policy is about such key issues in our society. Firstly, business policy means a lot about how we want our society to be – that is, how we're going to guide society in a direction that we think is good for people in this country, where people are going to live, what people are going to do, how we're going to get food and have a safe food production, etc. The second reason why it is important that we have an active industrial policy is that industrial policy is very much about natural resources. It's about resources in the ocean, whether it's fish, oil or gas. It's about resources on land. It's about controlling and controlling these natural resources that actually allows us to pass them on to future generations – that there are resources that are actually being conserved and not just consumed. Thirdly, active industrial policy is important for making money. A number of the state companies we have, where we are joint owners or 100 pst. owners, make good money that we transform into well-being. And that's what's Norway's advantage, what's made us one of the world's best countries to live in. It's not just oil, it's that we have the ability to use natural resources, absorb revenues from them, and transform them into well-being. And we're going to keep doing that. Hydropower has been the second most important resource – from 1910 onwards. Gradually, we've also been given other resources. In this budget, I will comment on three fields that I think are particularly interesting. The first one applies to fish. We are presenting a budget in which the leadership grant has actually been strengthened. For most people, I think that leadership grants may be a little strange word, but it's just that it's going to be possible for small boats to get their catch delivered further to the fishing grounds, so that you can actually fish with small boats ahead. The fact that they have found room to increase the lead grant, I know that I have been very well received by many fishermen who have small boats with small engines and who depend on this subsidy. So I think that's very good. The second is that you actually give $10 million. extra to combat illegal fishing. It's a problem. When there's a shortage of a resource, it's incredibly important that we have a control system that works, and that money be set aside so that you have the opportunity to follow it up and have controls, and actually take those who run these illegalities. So there are two areas I would particularly like to point out as important in the Ministry of Fisheries' budget. As far as the agricultural budget is concerned, it is clear that the large item is, of course, agricultural. That's what most of the money goes to. On the last settlement, we saw a development. First of all, we got a good deal for the farmers. There is, of course, a group that actually has something to do with intext development – there is no doubt about it – and there is a group that we are very dependent on should work well and have good conditions. First of all, we need food, but it also has an incredibly important role to play in the settlement. There are two things about farming that especially please me. The first is that you were able to take a grip on the sheep farmers. We know there is a shortage of sheep meat in Norway. We know that there is a kind of production that is very environmentally friendly. That's why it's good that you actually managed to do a grip there, like you were able to do something for family farms and put a special focus on them. They depend on going to jail every morning and every evening, and have little opportunity to have a job next door. Whether you have 12 or 30 cows, it is important to focus on that group, and I also see that the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture have that. In the end, I would like to say a little about Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway is, of course, an instrument that should be a little economical. If there's a big need for a bet, you should spend a lot of money, if there's less need, you can spend less money. This is how Innovation Norway will work. Right now Norwegian business is going very well. There is a shortage of labour, and we are constantly getting feedback that things are going well. But there are parts of Norway that don't go so well. There are parts of Norway where it's still a little chilly. It is important that Innovation Norway focuses on the fact that it is in those areas where it is called, they should work most actively. Where it boils from before, you can calm down and pull out. It's at least a clear signal from me, that Innovation Norway has to become very aware of where they spend the money, and that you're actually the mechanism you have to be to control the money where they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e443	Wednesday 14 November this year, the then Swedish Fisheries Commissioner, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, addressed a sweeping criticism of his own government and the department. The criticism concerned the fisheries policy of the Government and, in particular, vessels less than 15 metres and the possibility of structuring them. Among other things, she spoke out.\t\t You can ‘But I expect the Ministry of Fisheries to take seriously the process criticism and that any ambiguities and possible errors to the Coastal Fishery Team will be resolved.’ Does Mr Ryan, who comes from the same party and has now taken over in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, agree with the criticism of his own government by the then Fisheries Ministers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e453	We have no need to criticize the Minister for Fisheries. But when that's said, it's clear that here we're in a very complex area. We have had many rounds about who should be allowed to fish, and who should be allowed to join together – or structure, as it is called in another word. I'm not hiding that this is difficult. It's a difficult subject. We have had several rounds in the Socialist Left Party, both internally in the Party and also with the Minister for Fisheries, and we have come up with a solution that we are pleased with. So my answer to Korsberg is that we have no reason to criticize the Minister for Fisheries for what she does. I think she has a good dialogue with the fishermen, and I think she's doing an excellent job for the Government and for fishermen and other groups who depend on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e461	I want to ask Ryan's representative about what he thinks about the prospects for Norwegian agriculture. He was extremely satisfied with record transfers in this year's agricultural settlement and is concerned with small-scale structures. But what we see is the trend in agriculture now, it disappears thousands of uses every year. There is no change in the rate of closure. The only new thing is that we have problems producing Norwegian meat in the domestic market, and especially sheep. What I mentioned in my article is that we have average dairy consumption of only 19 cows – in the world's richest country. We have average sheep consumption of only 90 sheep. Obviously, this is not attractive for people who have alternative employment, who take education, and who want to have a future. Does not the representative Ryan see that the dream of the people's family is an agricultural derailment, that there is a need to invest in larger and more forward-looking holdings?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e472	Norway is a poor country. It's e.g. It's a very big difference between being on Jären and being in Northern Ireland when you're going to answer that question. In parts of Norway, there are good conditions, some natural advantages, for farming, while in other parts of the country it is more demanding. Therefore, we are required to have a policy in this area, and I believe that agriculture, like all other industries, will be subject to change. So has it. We have significantly reduced the number of uses over many years, and I think it's about to flatten out significantly. But we have to differentiate the policy. I believe that what has to happen now is that you go in and look at where agriculture is most struggling, and then you have to come up with schemes that make it interesting to do with agriculture. Then we have other parts of agriculture that I think actually go very well, so this is a nuanced picture. But it therefore requires an active state policy of good agricultural settlement, which means that those who have lost their courage get their courage back, and that the various farms are developed. Then I say we have to take care of all farms. I think we need both the small user – the part-time farmer – and the large farms. Norway is a poor country, and it requires a lack of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e483	In a joint comment with the Right, the Government Party, including SV, writes that the EU's fisheries policy with a common management policy is a good one. The note is positive to most of what the EU does, and strongly notes that EU fishermen are throwing out up to 60 pst. of the catch. The EU auditor, who has written the report on this, says to the Financial Times that if nothing is done, the situation becomes disastrous. SV is not known to be careful in language usage, but it is clear, so these are new notes from the SV page. So my question is: has SV changed its position towards the EU and its policies, or has they simply been completely clipped into the government constellation in which they are involved? 'Pusete' may not be a parliamentary expression, but at least SV here has been very inexhaustible in their comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e490	That is a very good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e493	The practice of wing cutting has not yet been experienced, as long as we have been in government. We'll see what happens in the future, but so far we haven't been bothered with that exercise. When it comes to the issue of a common management policy is a good one, I would say it is. Being able to act together is a good thing. We are very critical of much of the EU’s fisheries policy, but the fact that the EU actually manages to coordinate and coordinate itself, we think that is a good thing. I could have said a lot about the EU's fisheries policy, which has been disastrous in many areas in relation to overfishing and, in my opinion, environmental crime, and which we just have to work on. However, it is important that we cooperate when we have a common resource, that Norway cooperates with the EU, and that we try to find solutions in the right direction. It will not help if only Norway has a good fisheries policy, and the countries with which we work do not have it. Then it won't be good for the sea and not good for the fishing resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e502	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e505	The government party continues to repeat that things are going well in the Norwegian economy for the time being. And that's quite right. In the Christian People's Party we see three main reasons for this: a good balance between public governance and the good international cyclical economy of market mechanisms, a responsible economic policy More fundamentally, I will also bring forward the common Nordic, Christian-Humanist cultural heritage, attitudes and values such as solidarity, equality and equality, individual freedom and responsibility, respect for laws and rules, and a society that is characterized by high levels of trust between the inhabitants. These values allow us to make good use of the most important of our resources, i.e. human beings. Fortunately, there is a broad political agreement on the major features of economic policy. The government is, for example, price-priced eundrel in the use of oil money – they shall have it. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party and the Government have a somewhat different approach to the best way to lay the foundation for future value creation. The Christian People's Party believes that business must be built from below. The main role of policy-makers is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and surpluses for the distribution of important Community goods. This will enable small and medium-sized enterprises to flourish and help us achieve important goals of full employment and integration across the country. For example, in its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party proposes: removing the inheritance tax of a generation change in a family-owned holding. We correct the government when it comes to higher education, we increase nutrition research, and we raise the tax FUNN by 25 pst. The Christian People's Party proposes an unchanged tax regime for small power plants, except for an increase in the basic interest rate. We remove the curtailment of pensions for 68- and 69-year-olds. The Christian People's Party opposes the Government's proposal to increase social security contributions for self-employed people, and we ensure better social security rights for this group. The government, on the other hand, seems to be more busy controlling business from above. The government does not do enough to give industry a good general framework in the areas of taxation and knowledge. The wealth tax on working capital and the inheritance tax on family holdings will not be removed, the tax FUNN framework and the nutrition right research will not increase. Instead, the Government chooses to give priority to various forward arrangements. In fact, it seems that the government has more confidence in the politicians than in the companies and the individual employee. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that competition is an instrument and not an objective in itself. Competition is small in terms of welfare and care services. But competition in business can be positive. It can give power to small and medium-sized enterprises and to ordinary consumers. Competition can provide greater supply of goods and services, lower prices, more innovation and value creation, and with safer jobs pooling. I am, therefore, disappointed that the Government wants to make it easier to overrun its professional assessments — assessments that often benefit small and medium-sized enterprises and most people. In ownership policy, there is a broad consensus on the main lines: the Governing Board shall take a decision on individual matters. Each company's social responsibility and responsibilities for ethics, equality and integration are central, and national control of natural resources and head office functions is important. But the government wants the state to use more Community funds to buy even more axles in Norwegian companies. In addition, the Government conducts a more unpredictable and unstable ownership policy in individual matters than the Bondevik II government did. The acquisition in Aker Holding was an example of critical action. Probably the state of Aker gave a higher price than the market price for the axans. The purchase can give an unfortunate signal that every time an owner wants to sell down, it's just to threaten to sell abroad, and then the state comes in with capital. We can't have it like that. There was no stormy cheer in the fishing industry when the government introduced the state budget. Firstly, the government has not yet arranged the heavy NOx charge. The Christian People's Party, like the entire business community, has long wanted a NOx fund instead of such a fee. It would reduce NOx emissions, and it would make life easier for business as a whole, especially for the fishing industry. Secondly, access to the labour force for fishing is particularly difficult. But neither in this budget has the government found room to increase the fisherman's deduction. The Christian People's Party is listening to the signals from Coast Norway and has in the alternative budget double the fisherman's deduction to NOK 150 000. The budget procedure in the Business Committee shows the deal on the criticism of Russian overfishing. That's good. The Committee also agrees that the EU’s fisheries policy ‘in some areas our faulty and unresponsive’. At the same time, the Right, Labour Party, SV and the Centre stress that the EU’s management policy is nevertheless ‘a good one’. This is interesting, especially when, in a recent report, the EU's own audit body states that the EU's fishermen operate almost uncontrolled overfishing, resulting in dramatic stock failure in the EU's waters. The EU auditor who has written this report says to the Financial Times that if nothing is done, the situation becomes disastrous. In the North Sea will be up to 60 pst. of EU fishing toss back to sea – once again according to EU own figures. This also applies to Norwegian North Sea fishermen. Although disappointing, it is not surprising that the 'yes' party, which loves the European Union, is not able to call a spade a spade. Love makes a known blindness. It is more surprising that the no-parties of the Centre and the SV can participate in calling this policy ‘a good’ when the EU itself calls the situation catastrophic. Fortunately, in the government's agricultural policy, we find a little to be glad about, because today's agricultural policy is largely a continuation of the line led by the Bondevik II government. This applies to objectives of facilitating good income development for farmers, ensuring a varied agricultural structure, maintaining a living agriculture throughout the country and paying particular attention to weak areas when it comes to production and land use. But the image is not just pink. The Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research reports a decline in agricultural income of 4 pst. in 2006. This is alarming. So I want to encourage the Government to give the farmers a real boost in the next agricultural business. Agriculture is a backbone in Bygde-Noreg. An active agriculture is crucial to ensure employment and composition throughout the country. Therefore, recruitment measures are crucial. Interested young people need to be stimulated and encouraged to choose a future in the industry. A reasonable level of income, well-functioning welfare schemes and good financing solutions are important instruments. Unfortunately, meeting with a surmaga bureaucracy, whether it's in Innovation Norway or elsewhere, has attracted many interested and enthusiastic young people. We simply can't afford that. The Christian People's Party wants Norway to be a leading country in environmental policy. In order for future generations to have a good environment, clean drinking water sources and good natural experiences, environmental and climate considerations have to weigh heavily in the formulation of the future agricultural policy. The strong increase in world prices for agricultural products is interesting. In a previous case, the Christian People's Party has called for the Government to provide an analysis of developments in the global food market and possible consequences for Norwegian agricultural policy in the context of the 2008 agricultural agreement. There is no need to underestimate the situation in the Norwegian economy. It's going well over time. At the same time, the Government has a job to do to give all parts of the business better and not least more stable framework conditions. Here's another way to go. Finally, I will address the Christian People's Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e583	The representative Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e588	In the vote, the Christian People's Party expresses great concern about the situation in the Norwegian fishing industry, and believes that the Government is not doing a good enough job ensuring good framework conditions for the industry. However, the profitability analysis for fisheries, which was published last week, shows that industry profitability is very high, in line with previous peak years, and that the contribution of fisheries to value creation is increasing – the operating margins in industry have increased steadily and steadily. Does the representative, Mr Sørfonn, maintain that the situation for Norwegian fisheries is bleak?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e600	When it comes to our primary industries, and especially fisheries, it's important to think ahead. The Christian People's Party listens to what the industry itself says. We're glad that it's still going around, and that it's good pay, as the representative Haugen here refers to, but at the same time this is the average. There are two-three relationships the Christian People's Party is very concerned about, and that are important. The first is the recruitment situation. Where we think that by raising the fisherman's deduction, a match will be the strong challenge the industry has from different parts of the fleet, from fleet layers and other industries, which take part of those that should actually become fishermen in the future. The second is the NOx levy, which is quite clear to be burdensome, which could lead to the introduction of catches to countries other than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e611	After all, it is the opposition's job to criticise constructively the government's draft budget. In part, we also see it in black paint. I noticed a sentence in Mr. Sørfonn's contribution, saying that the resources of the Tax Fund and industrial research are not being increased in this budget. I would like to comment on it in this way show that I am familiar with the research appropriations for the NHD budget increased by 520 million. kr since 2005. It's an increase of 37.5 pst. The 2008 allocation has been proposed at DKK 1.8 billion, an increase from the previous year at 5 p.m. I would like to have Mr Sørfonn's comments on the changes proposed here, taken in relation to the claim made in the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e618	Yes, I'll try. It is well known that last year it was cut both in SkattenFUNN and in research media – a talk about a hump. We want to get back, so we're on track again. When it comes to TaxFUNN, which is a simple and unbureaucratic system like the whole of business, not least the small and medium-sized enterprises, is very busy, so it was made more difficult on a monthly basis last year. One still does not know the whole result of the reduction and the deterioration that was made last year. One fear that it is monthly. We had hoped – honestly – that it was corrected this year, so that this constructive, positive arrangement could continue. But that hasn't happened, and we think that's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e623	I will drill a little further on the SkattenFUNN system. Of course, there will be changes in the changes that the Government has made, but there is in no way a breakdown of the scheme, as some mentioned earlier, and perhaps the Sjöfonn was also one of them. The Christian People's Party has now proposed increasing the financial limits. But there's some confusion attached to it, because I'm a little bit unsure whether it refers to the limits in the deduction basis, or whether it refers to how much the tax deduction can be based on the deduction basis. It may be a difficult and detailed question to address here in a line change, but my main question is at least whether the model of the Christian People's Party has been checked out against state aid law. Is the proposal in line with State aid law, so that one can obtain an approval for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e634	The TaxFUNN scheme is perhaps one of the most accurate and good tools that has been put in place. We got very good feedback from business that this was working, that this was unbureaucratic, and we had a boom of research and development in the companies as a follow-up of the SkattenFUNN. There is no doubt that the restriction – to use such an expression – that was made last year helped to set the TaxFUNN scheme back a long time ago. I am not concerned that this should not be approved, because our primary position is to move the TaxFUNN scheme back where it was – it has been approved before, so there is no problem – and develop it further so that it becomes even more accurate. So I don't share the concern that, if there was a concern representative Uppøen Hansen said here, that this could not be approved. This is a good order, which we have to put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e639	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e642	Good industrial policy, growth and competitiveness depend on responsible economic policies and the long-term nature of instruments and measures. The government’s 2008 draft government budget suggests that the use of oil revenues is DKK 7 billion lower than the rule of action suggests, and in a situation of economic pressure, this is an important signal to avoid a higher cost growth than competitive business can live with. The draft budget facilitates the development of a future business that we want. The government strengthens the commitment to research in the field of economics. I want to underline it – in a situation where the opposition is largely engaged in black paint of the proposals we have. The total appropriations for research and development in 2008 are close to DKK 18 billion. So they've increased by 3 pst, or by 1.2 billion dollars, compared to 2007. With regard to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, as I said in the reply here, there is a budget of SEK 1.8 billion. That's an increase of 5 pst. from 2007. And we've seen an increase after the government change in 2005 that's significant, almost 40 pst. When there are at the same time large investments in infrastructure, inter alia: full broadband coverage across the country and changes in the framework conditions for bioenergy, which are now proposed, mark a willingness to facilitate both an environmentally friendly and knowledge-intensive business life in the future. Industry is increasingly characterised by increasing diversity and different needs. Competition between enterprises and between nations is about the ability to convert and the pursuit of competitive advantage. Enterprise policy needs to be geared towards identifying and strengthening the advantages and benefits of the choice of industrial policy instruments. I am therefore pleased that the Government is now proposing a new state fund of SEK 2.2 billion, of which NOK 0.5 billion will be used in the marine sector. The NOx tax and its mechanism has been disputed, as also mentioned in previous articles today. I expect that the negotiations that are now in the final phase will mean that a binding environmental agreement can be established with the state to reduce NOx emissions. Negotiations have taken a long time – too long. It is important that they be completed as quickly as possible, both in order to clarify the business environment and to ensure the legitimacy of the scheme. This form of cooperation between the country and industry should and must be able to form a template in the future also for other mechanisms to reduce climate change emissions. Norwegian agriculture is the main task of producing safe and clean food for Norwegian consumers. A viable Norway requires a viable agriculture. It involves agriculture where there is room for both small and large units and where local diversity and creativity are encouraged. Effective import protection is a fundamental prerequisite for a national agricultural policy. Recent developments in food prices internationally and the demand for food are not changing in that main picture. However, the increase in prices internationally gives important signals about opportunities and the need for price increases also in the Norwegian food market. In particular, in a situation where there is a shortage of Norwegian-produced products, such as: beef, lamb and milk, it must be expected that the farmer will gradually be able to cope with an increase in the prices of his products, which could also help to increase Norwegian production. For an industry that continues to need increased revenues, this will be important and this space for action needs to be exploited. I would also like to stress that it is positive that the Government implements a green tax exchange for agriculture. The mineral oil levy is set at 40 cents, so that the use of bioenergy is made more profitable. At the same time, this is offset by an increase in the agricultural deduction. So to the fisheries policy: I would like to reject the fact that there have been major changes in Norwegian structural policy in recent years. The structural policy we have today is largely based on the policy on which it was mutually agreed up to 2003. The main features of the new structural policy have been clear since the decision of the Stortinget was taken on 5 June of this year, but some questions have naturally been followed up by the Department and the Fisheries Directorate. In particular, it concerns those matters relevant to the regulation of fisheries. Some have criticised the Government for having gone too far – others believe it has gone too short. It shows that you have achieved a good balance. Then you have to understand that individuals have been disappointed when they have chosen an adaptation based on one expectation that has not been met. This applies in particular to matters such as quota ceilings and the lower length limit of the structural quota system. Here I must point out – and underline – that the structural quota system is voluntary, it is an offer to the individual. Thus, no one has been forced by the authorities to make use of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e674	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e677	The parliamentary leader of the Central Party was himself concerned with what is now happening on the world market with regard to the prices of some agricultural products. We can have a long debate about who this is positive for and who it is negative for, but we do not have time for that in a row change. What has been interesting this autumn is that representatives of the Farmers' Layer and of the Agricultural Cooperation have opened up to break the agricultural agreement during the contract period in order to increase prices on the Norwegian market. Since the Senterpartiet and the Bondelag are more or less the same organisation, I would like to know if the Centerpartiet, by the parliamentary leader Lars Peder Breck, is willing to meet the demand that agricultural representatives have made for an increase in prices on the Norwegian market – when prices are now rising on the world market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e684	I think this is a very interesting development we are now seeing in the world market, which is also underlined by the question from the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr: Many developments in agricultural production have changed over the last year, there is an increasing demand for food, and there are, as a result, price increases around the world. It must also – as I said in my speech – have implications for Norwegian agricultural policy and for Norwegian food prices. We are committed to ensuring the framework conditions for agriculture in the future. We are concerned that we should increase the incomes of agriculture. Budgetary resources and price instruments must then be used in the future. We are here concerned that we should use the existing negotiating system, and we should use the instruments of the agricultural agreement. That is what will be the basis for further progress in increasing agricultural incomes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e691	The representative Breck did not say a word – as far as I remember – about the government's maritime policy in his contribution. Maybe we can understand that. However, the government parties boast that they have a 100 million bet. kr more for maritime research. What is striking in this matter is that the red-green industry politicians were totally absent on 29 November, when the Odelstinget adopted a tax tightening of DKK 1.4 billion each year for the maritime industry and a cut in equity of DKK 14 billion for Norwegian shipping companies. It is quite obvious to all who know this industry that such a reduction in equity will lead to a dramatic reduction in coastal investment capacity and thus to fewer jobs and less innovation. Does the representative Brerk not see that a maritime strategy of 7.1 pst is becoming quite embarrassing. by tax authorities, when everyone knows that the sum of this is a clear deterioration in the maritime environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e700	What the representative Torbjørn Hansen does not mention in a single word is that the future shipping tax system now adopted represents a clear improvement and a continuation of a positive and active policy towards the shipping industry. It has been the most important thing in that case. So it's right that the representative, Hansen, emphasizes, that it's set at 100 million. kr for a maritime investment package, partly for research and partly for other actions. We understand that is well received in the industry. With regard to the transitional arrangements for the shipping tax that have now been adopted, which will mean that we take NOK 1.4 billion in taxes from the industry, there has been a complicated case for the Senter party. We have put this compromise to the bottom. We have gone into the matter with other solutions, as we have underlined earlier, but we are fully committed to the system put in place here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e710	In the Bondebladt on 6 December, a study was made from the home tracts to the representative Breck. It says that ‘every third dairy farmer in Orland and Bjugn knows that he will not end in the next five years’. So two out of three dairy farmers are wondering about to stop. Furthermore, the article states that ‘three years ago farmers in Ørland and Bjugn would invest’, but now they have lost sparks and the desire to invest in agriculture is gone. We also have statements from the leader of Hedmark Bondelag. He says that he ‘reacts strongly to the fact that current Minister of Agriculture, Terje Riis-Johansen, is trying to blame former Minister of Agriculture, Lars Sponheim’. Three years ago, Lars Sponheim was Minister of Agriculture. Then there was optimism and investment among the farmers I referred to. Is it the case that the representative, Mr Breck, believes that it is the one who was Minister of Agriculture three years ago who is responsible for not being optimistic, as it was at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e722	I would like to remind the representative of Kongshaug that my place of residence is quite considerable away from Ørland and Bjugn. In Outer Namdal, there is a great deal of investment and interest in continuing milk production. The example of the representative of Kongshaug here from Ørland and Bjugn, as well as examples from other parts of the country showing the opposite, shows that there are considerable differences between districts in how a person wants to continue farming. Obviously, the investment ambition is also very different. What is dangerous now is that many major dairy farms in Ørland are being assessed for closure – it has been told to me. It's critical for us. We need to have a few framework conditions for agriculture that protect them. We're also working on it in the future. With regard to the issue of former government and former Minister of Agriculture versus the present, my starting point is that changes do not take place as quickly as possible. We see that a policy implemented by previous governments also has consequences now. But just blaming the former Minister of Agriculture is not quite right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e729	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e732	Norway must have companies that succeed in international competition in order to ensure value creation, jobs and, consequently, good welfare arrangements for all. Good conditions do not come about by themselves – it requires bets, and it requires willingness to give priority. In order to create and maintain jobs, a generally good framework for all parts of business is essential. Therefore, the Left wants targeted relief in Norwegian business taxation, as we propose in our alternative state budget, and a policy to help entrepreneurs and a modern knowledge-based business. The public support apparatus and public funds shall be directed towards parts of the system in which the private capital market cannot function, but it shall not take over where this function is excellent. I am seriously concerned about the whole of the government's policy regarding ownership of Norwegian business. Through a number of changes in the tax system in the last three budgets, the Government has made it increasingly less profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs and enterprises. This comes at the same time that the Government implements a rather massive increase in state ownership in Norwegian business. This means that the dispersed private ownership is replaced by a significant concentration of power at the hand of the state. This concerns me and the Left, and it should also concern the Government and the Minister of Industry, even though parts of the Government are based on the ideals that the State should take over the means of production and an ideology that community and state are two sides of the same matter. An active industrial policy has been the great mantra of this government. So far, one has been most active in removing directors who take into account their business in the interests of the internal affairs of the Government. For the Left, an active enterprise policy is quite another. Public intervention in industrial policy must be concentrated primarily on general measures, in areas where Norway is particularly disadvantaged, such as the United Kingdom. travel, research and development of competences. Therefore, the Left in its alternative state budget proposes a large-scale investment in these areas. We propose, among other things: NOK 1.2 billion for increased research efforts, of which 75 million. DKK for industrial research and 75 million. SEK to, among others to restore the Unpaid Labour Action Scheme of the Tax FUNN as removed by the current Government in 2006. In addition, the Left proposes an increased commitment to the marketing of Norwegian tourism industry — an increase in the funding of 50 million. kr, or 14 pst., in relation to the Government’s draft budget. Many public rules, forms and injunctions lead to unnecessary reporting requirements and complex legislation. Small businesses and entrepreneurs are particularly hard hit by the form field. For the Left, it is a main task to simplify the everyday life of these companies by abolishing unnecessary laws and regulations and simplifying reporting through increased use of Internet-based solutions. In the alternative budget of the Left, we propose spending 41 million. kr to reduce the fees associated with the Brønnøsund registers by 10 pst. Policy is about prioritizing, about being a business manager for some necessary changes. That's why the Left has taken on the rather tough and unpopular job of saying that SEK 1.8 billion to let a professional group not contribute taxes, it's completely unreasonable, when we actually take seriously the Prime Minister's and Government's words that the biggest money is going to go to the big things. DKr 1.8 billion will be allocated over next year's government budget, among others. Bartenders on the Danish boat, while fishermen who spend days outside Greenland in storms and storms should not have the same advantage – and in a situation where the country lacks labour. This is bad policy, the Left has the courage to say from. The net pay system for seafarers must be terminated because it is perceived as unfair for land-based tourism along the coast and for the fishing industry. In particular, it will be wrong when the appropriations for the net pay scheme next year are increased by 380 million. kr, an increase of almost 30 p.m., on the basis of a strong increase in the salary level of the beneficiaries of the scheme, which is a paradox in itself, all the time available for keeping the pay level down. You don't have to be a lot of a fortune-teller to understand that this is a development that will escalate in the coming years, and that the government has to do something with the scheme as early as next year, if there's not to be an increase in bill at a place between 500 million. NOK 1 billion already at next year's budgetary procedure. Many of the government parties’ large-scale representatives have sold the government’s so-called improvement of social arrangements to self-employed people with high levels of victories. It is true that self-employed people are now entitled to maternity benefits in line with normal workers, but not only do they have to pay the bill themselves, it actually has to be paid with more than 150 pst. in 2008. The government's putting in place a 60-million-dollar scheme. NOK 95 million. kr from the self-employed to finance this. It is possible that this is what the Government considers to be a fairer tax policy. It is only 14 days since the Minister of Agriculture and Food stood on this pulpit and boasted unhindered by the excellence of the Government. He said that ‘we are strengthening the industries that manage resources in the districts’, and that it will do so through ‘a reintroduction of forest policy’. After that time, we have received fears about the closure of most Norwegian Forest production facilities in Norway, having regard to the Government’s framework conditions and an overview of agricultural income trends in 2006 showing a 4pst drop in income. I am somewhat uncertain as to whether the industries that manage the resources in the districts are just as satisfied as the Minister of Agriculture. The chairman of the Norwegian Forest Society, Helge Evju, is at least clear in his speech: If this happens to Norwegian Forest, it will be the most catastrophic thing that has happened to forestry in human memory. However, the Council of State does the same as the Government in general and the central party councils in particular do in the habit: it owes it to the previous government. It is appropriate to ask when the Government is actually willing to take responsibility for its own actions. In particular, when the operating review from NILF shows that there is a cost increase, not least as a result of an increase in interest rates, which is the main explanation of the decline in the income of farmers in 2006. 1 pst. interest rate increase means an overall additional agricultural burden of 350 million. kr. When Terje Riis-Johansen took over the Council chair, the interest rate was 2 p.m. Today it's 5 pst. There have been twelve interest rate increases during the period of responsibility of the Government. The additional agricultural costs are over DKK 1 billion per year. It may be time to be a little more honest about the consequences of your own policies and a little bit more careful about blaming others. In the finance debate 14 days ago, the Minister of Agriculture's party trap Per Olaf Lundtägen launched a force-salve on the situation of nutritionists in Norwegian agriculture. He said that ‘it soon crosses all borders in relation to the supervision and requirements of food producers in Norway’. I totally agree with Lundtegen. It is too complicated a regulation, and many of the laws of agriculture are ripe for modernisation. Government parties went to the elections on a new fisheries policy. The problem is that the industry will not have that fisheries policy. I would like to quote the leader of the Norwegian Fiskerlag, Reidar Nilsen, a faithful working party member: ‘What worries me is that this government seems to be less concerned about the need for profitability in industry, and more concerned about detail management. I am afraid in some areas you try to turn the clock back and ignore the fact that we now have an industry that is doing without state transfers." The left shares this concern. I hope that political detail management along with rising interest rates will not send the industry into a time of new difficulties. In its alternative budget, the left raised the fishing allowance from DKK 80 000 to NOK 150 000 – among others. strengthening the recruitment of the industry. Norway's Fiskarlag believes that the fishing industry has lost 2000 fishermen only to the offshore industry. The left is concerned with the ecological sustainability of the fishing industry. Strict responses must be made to infringements and fraud. The good work in this area must continue. Finally, I would like to stress that the Left regards fishing resources as a national resource to be managed nationally. The left also believes that legislation which favours individual parts of the country in front of others is unfortunate for traders and for the industry in the long term. The fisheries policy of the left is based on the development of a competitive and comprehensive maritime nutrition. Finally, I address the proposals that the Left has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e782	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e787	After making a visit to Marx, we noticed that the representative Kongshaug confirmed that the Left, now as before, will terminate the net pay scheme for seafarers. In addition, they have so much to do with the shipping company that they feel that shipowners should not be able to pay the accumulated tax liability they have. In sum, we know that this will make the shipowners richer, that will result in a significant flagging out, and Norwegian seafarers will be replaced by non-residents with lower wages. My question is: is this to be seen as an extension of the Left's view on labour immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e794	One must have arrangements that are appropriate for the time in which one is. Even if a scheme is in place, one cannot continue with the same scheme when one sees that the conditions around have changed. When the rise in wages and salaries for seafarers with net pay arrangements has increased by 30 pst. And we had to adjust the budget by almost 4 million. For that increase in wages and salaries, we understand that there is no need for a net pay scheme to provide cheaper labour, because the shipowners have the ability to pay that labour. The left seems to be the time to look at that system, not least in relation to competition with other industries. Norwegian fishing industry is screaming for skilled workers. They have lost 2 000 fishermen to the offshore industry only in recent years. This is clearly a distortion of competition that is very unfortunate. I think it's time to review the entire net pay system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e803	We in the Central Party are proud that we managed to make an impact on better social arrangements for self-employed people, which the previous government did not get. The centre party is in favour of an active enterprise policy, where it has both general measures and a willingness to take specific measures. Norwegian Forest in France has received acceptable conditions on electricity. The Finnish forest industry has similar characteristics. The first question is: is Left positive to power-processing contracts contributing to profitable, forward-looking wood processing in Norway? The second question is agriculture. I think we should forget what happened earlier. We should forget whether it was optimism or pessimism. We who are professionals know what it was. We can look forward. In the current situation, the Left Party wants to facilitate increased prices of Norwegian food so that the agricultural economy can be strengthened through the market – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e812	First, the conditions for Norwegian Forest. It's a more complex thing than just power contracts. But the left stands for the importance of having framework conditions that enable Norwegian industry to survive in an international competition, not least in view of the high level of wages and prices we have received in Norway. Therefore, the Left has a number of measures in its alternative budget, which improves the framework conditions for Norwegian industry. As far as agriculture is concerned, I agree with the representative, Lundtegen, who says that we should not focus so much on what has been before, but look forward to it. I have tried to find out in my articles. But Lundtigen's party trap, the Council of State, is still showing three years back in time for agricultural policy. It's wrong, we have to look forward and rather modernise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e819	The Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research produced a report last week showing that agricultural incomes fell by 4 pst. in 2006. The first agricultural policy negotiated by today’s government was in 2006. The measures that were introduced only take effect from the 2007 revenue year. This has also been pointed out by the Minister of Agriculture in a comment on the numbers that were put forward. The representative of Kongshaug, in an interview with the Nation on 6 December of this year, owes the Minister of Agriculture a very harsh claim to be both impeccable, weak and dishonest. Is it true that the representatives of Kongshaug and the Left continue to hold on to the fact that they are not responsible for their incomes in 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e826	The questioner's presentation here is not quite correct. An agricultural settlement for 2006 also involves target prices valid from 1 July 2006, so the agricultural settlement negotiated for 2006 also has ingredients that affect income development. But it is true that the framework agreement does not apply to 2007. But the important thing in this is that one now focuses on the modernisation of agriculture, looks at the areas in which optimism and sparks can be created again – precisely by going into the legislation and letting farmers and nutritionists get a little more armshit in order to be able to invest and not feel that everything is detailed. It won't create creativity and optimism, we see that from other industries as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e834	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e837	Several of the speakers have been involved – and I agree – that Norway is a good country to live and live in. That's how we want it to continue to be. Well-being tomorrow and in the future depends on the creation of value today. Therefore, one of the most important things we can do today is to ensure that Norway becomes a good country to do business in. We have to create to have something to share. I am very pleased with the Government's offensive commitment to innovation and industrial development in this year's budget. We contribute strongly to stimulating increased value creation across the country, and have provided for a strong expansion of the framework of active business policy. In the 2008 budget, the Ministry of Industry and Trade’s budget is strengthened by a total of 13 p.m. in relation to the 2007 budget. Business needs predictability and long-termity. Good framework conditions are one of the most important things we can do for Norwegian businesses. This government contributes to predictable development of interest rates and a stable dollar rate. This is how we conduct an economic policy that gives business stability to invest in the future. This government has set ambitious targets. Among other things, we have said that our goal is for Norway to become one of the leading, innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world, in the areas where we have a special advantage. Through the 2008 budget, the Government is stepping up its efforts in sectors where Norway is leading internationally, or is in a position to become so. It's an ambition that separates us from the previous government. Let me first mention the maritime sector. In October, the Governments launched their own maritime strategy. Here the Government presented its plan to support the further growth and development of the Norwegian maritime industries. In the budget, we follow the strategy and propose 252 million. kr for research, innovation and competence actions in the maritime sector. That's an increase of 100 million. kr from 2007. In addition, the net pay scheme is continued and we are introducing an improved shipping tax system that will provide a good and predictable framework for industry. Travel life is also a sector for the future. In just a few days, the Government will present a national strategy for travel life. Our starting point is that Norway is a country with opportunities for unique experiences in a very special way. With such a good product, we also have great opportunities to create growth and values. When the government is about to present its own travel strategy, it is among other things. to increase Norway’s participation in international tourism growth. The draft budget shows that we are serious – only above the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will the investment be increased to 215 million. kr. I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's ambitions for travel life. An important objective of this government is to give everyone the opportunity to know. Our competitive power lies primarily in our heads. Today we have for the most part realized that we cannot compete for price and cheap labour. The products we produce must be very good, and the knowledge must be high. If we're going to still be able to compete, we're going to have to do more research. The government therefore believes that an active commitment to nutrient research is essential to achieving the objective of increasing growth and value creation across the country. I see that the opposition is critical of the government's research efforts. I disagree. The government budget for 2008 represents a real growth of 3 pst. for research. It is in addition to the increase in the research fund and the continuation of the SkattenFUNN scheme. Over the Ministry of Industry and Trade, since the government change, we have increased the research effort by 520 million. kr, an increase of 37.5 pst. It's not enough to produce good research results if we can't commercialize good ideas. Innovation Norway is the main instrument of the Government to raise profitable businesses throughout the country. This is why we are strengthening Innovation Norway’s instrumentation. In 2008, the government will set up a new investment fund of SEK 2.2 billion. The Fund shall provide long-term competitive capital and contribute to innovation projects and shall focus on the five marine and maritime sectors, environment, energy and travel. In addition, the fund shall contribute a competent and active ownership of the portfolio companies. The Fund will be a good complement to the other instruments of Innovation in Norway. In order for us to achieve innovation and change, continuing cooperation between the state and the business community is important. This budget strengthens those opportunities, and we are taking important steps forward in fulfilling our promises of value creation and common well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e868	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e871	Governments were involved in a national travel strategy. That's interesting. Travel affects many departments, and there may be good reason to coordinate them. I have also noticed that Georg Kamfjord, who was the government's external committed project manager for the travel industry, ended up protesting because of the government's and state council's management of travel life. There's a lot of interest in travel life in this room. The Progress Party has promoted a proposal for a representative, in which an overall opposition asked for a notification. In addition, the representative Torbjørn Hansen has had an interview about travel life. To get an overall debate: why does the government not want to promote a travel life message for the Storting so that we can take the whole debate for such an important industry, which is located around the country and engages all the big business representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e880	The representative claims that a committed consultant who was supposed to contribute to the process has ended up protesting against the Council of State, let me say that it has not transferred any such information to me at all. There's been a disagreement with the department he worked in the department, and there's actually something else. On the contrary, the involvement of both the Council of State and the Government is referred to as innovative in relation to what was in the previous government, not least from travel environments, other than the one representative mentioned by Korsberg. As far as the travel strategy is concerned, we have worked widely and had seminars around the country, because we take the knowledge of the industry seriously, in addition to the knowledge we have, and the knowledge of Innovation Norway. As far as all the instruments included in the strategy are concerned, they are subject to debate in the context of the State budget. But we follow up on what we said in the Soria Moria statement that the Government wants to put forward a government strategy in the central areas of activity. That's what's going to happen on December 18th, and Korsberg can rejoice: it's going to be fine!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e889	There is little doubt that the government's industrial policy has become a kind of parade march in the breakup of promises. Had it not been so well with the Norwegian economy, this would probably have been the government's very weakest point. What is most striking is that the so-called strategic industries tend to be worst hit by the changes proposed by the Government. The government itself was involved in the maritime strategy, with 100 million. kr more for research and SEK 1.4 billion more for tax consolidation for an industry that is extremely frustrated by the policy pursued by the Government. At the same time, we have a tourism industry that is also strategic, and has experienced a total passive government for two years, and the fishing industry has experienced a number of deteriorations in the framework conditions. But the crumbling of promises from the Workers' Party in the previous election campaign was perhaps promised a new industrial power regime. After all, contacts with the Union's staff were almost daily. I would like to ask: does the Minister of Industry now have an active policy on Norwegian Forest? Will there be industrial contracts? Is there going to be a government purchase? Are there any measures that affect any of them? Or is it the same policy that has been in place every year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e900	Did I understand correctly that the question finally ended with Norwegian Forest? In that case, I'll answer it. As far as the industrial power regime is concerned, the representative knows very well – it is mentioned a number of times by the Minister of Oil and Energy, who is responsible for the power supply in this country – that we are working closely with it to find good solutions for both Norwegian Forest and others. But if the question was primarily about Norwegian Forest, the situation for Norwegian Forest is that it is and has been a private company. In fact, Norwegian Forest has written up its own value in view of the fact that it is possible to sell the power to which they are entitled at a higher price than they pay for it. This does not indicate that in the first instance the power situation is the problem for Norwegian Forest. On the contrary, for Norwegian Forest, it is a challenge that the world market for newsprint has been reduced. So it's not a problem of ownership, it's a market problem as a result of previously chosen strategies, where I could say a lot about what I mean. But we're dealing with it and we're constantly being informed about the situation of Norwegian Forest, because of course we're concerned about it as part of the value creation of Norwegian raw materials. It is therefore the case that ownership issues, as the representative said, are the main problem for Norwegian Forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e909	In the main comment from the government's party, they start by writing 'that after 2 years with a red-green government, Norwegian industry is doing very well'. It would have been more correct to say that after two years of red-green government, Norwegian industry is still doing well, because there is no doubt that Bondevik II actually turned down the rise, pessimism to optimism, and got the arrows to point in a very sluggish way. In my post I gave tribute to parts of the Government's policy, but much remains. I'm coming, among other things. back to the industrial power regime, for it was said in the election campaign to be ‘a piece of cake’. Now there have been more than two years with a new government, without anything happening. A NOx fund is requested. Stoltenberg I introduced a sulphur tax fund that worked. Although it is located in other departments, I believe that the Council of State has ‘hands on’ on this. I'd like to ask you, do we get a new industrial power regime? And will the government look at a NOx tax fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e924	The representative refers to the concept of an industrial power regime. This is not mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration. This is a solution to the industrial power problem mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration. The Minister of Oil and Energy is working hard to do this. This is also reflected in the ownership message, as the representative Sørfonn mentioned earlier as being quite good. One of the possibilities we have is that State power, which is state-wide, should have greater ambitions in entering into commercial but good industrial contracts in the future. It will be one of the things that can contribute to providing long-term business in Norway in the future. So the matters that the representative of Sørfonn refers to are followed up. I must allow myself to say that I am recording from the committee's attitude that all parties – including the Christian People's Party – want to spend less money on industrial policy than the Government proposes, even if there are increases in individual items. I take it as an expression that this government's industrial policy is very offensive, also in relation to the opposition's desire to add to individual items. But the whole thing is very offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e933	The government and the representatives of the government parties have expressed pride and loudness over the so-called improvements in the social rights of self-employed persons. The right should be right, it is a small step in the right direction – also in the left direction. But the way it's done isn't the left hand side. In fact, it's like increasing the proportion of people in the health sector by $95 million. And then you add 60 million. It is believed that a better health policy has been adopted. We all know that it's not like that. Does the Minister of Industry really think that there is an improvement in the situation of the self-employed when they have to pay 95 million. SEK for public benefits of 60 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Why does the Left Government not support changes proposed by the Left, which would really improve the social arrangements for the many entrepreneurs and women self-employed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e941	First, a small reservation in relation to the government going a little step in the left direction. I'd rather say in the left direction. I feel more comfortable with that. With regard to the social arrangements, which were mentioned here, I am very pleased that we are making it more equivalent to self-employed people compared to what has been the situation for people who have been employed in businesses. The representative is probably familiar with this. At least I have been employed for my part in various companies in Norway, and then it has always been that the company I have been employed in has paid an employer's share of the social security, and I have been drawn a share in the social security as an employee. It is then reasonable when we put in place more equal arrangements for the self-employed, that they are also involved in financing it. It's a completely natural way of dealing with such a question. But I am pleased to note that Kongshaug thinks that this is a step in the right direction. I think it's relatively positive review compared to what we're used to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e952	The government and the government have done something that I think is very serious: they gamble with our common future. One of Norway’s most important industries, both historically and in the future, is at stake. I'm thinking about the entire maritime cluster, and especially the shipping industry. The government announced in the election campaign that they would pursue an active industrial policy. The active business policy has been to withdraw 14 billion kroner from the industry, and then to give some peanuts, in the form of 100 million dollars. kr, back to the industry. At the same time, the Council of State boasts that he has presented a maritime action plan, which he is too cowardly to present to the Stortinget so that we can have a debate in Stortinget on that matter. I wonder, what should the Council of State do to ensure that the trust between the shipping industry and the state is to be as it was before?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e959	The President does not consider 'too cowardly' to be a good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e962	No, and it is also not a comprehensive expression, although it would have been parliamentary, for all the concrete proposals contained in the maritime strategy, have been included in the state budget and are being discussed here and now. So it's completely possible to think about it. As far as confidence in the industry is concerned, the representative Asmyhr forgets a point – and perhaps not quite randomly what is the greatest point: that is, today in the Grand Duchy, if we are to judge by the vote, a future shipping tax system in Norway that is very good in the European context will be adopted. It is adopted with the support of all parties, from the outermost left to the outermost right. So it's never been more predictable than what it's going to be after today's decision. Then it's true that former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss said that if the deferred tax that has been in the old regime was to be a definitive tax exemption, we would have adopted tax exemptions. Thus, parts of the outstanding amount can be invested in environmental measures and thus not taxed. But the most important thing is that with the measures in the maritime strategy and the future shipping tax system, the shipping industry in Norway has never had more predictable and stable framework conditions than it has since today's decision in the Storting, thanks to the initiative of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e971	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e974	I think the debate we have witnessed today is quite special. We feel that the representatives of the government parties lack self-confidence – at least they give the impression of it. There is no way of boasting about this government, and one would think that the lives of the inhabitants of this country had been substantially changed in the two years that this government has been sitting. It's obvious that that hasn't happened. If someone had asked the voters what they think about the government's policy, I think you would get some negative answers. We have seen that there has been a dissatisfaction with the Government in the fishing industry. We know that there is great dissatisfaction with the government's policy in the agricultural industry. And we also know that within the maritime industries there has been considerable frustration at the so-called active industrial policy that the current government parties promised to lead in this field before the elections, but that has probably ended up in the biggest socialization of Norway's history – or ran, as you might call it. So we also know that there is really a lot of frustration among the government parties' representatives in the Stortinget. There have been several debates and also a series of media performances in these two years that we've been through. Then I record that there is still an attack on the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. I kind of think that's quite strange. For what has this government provided by agricultural policy so far during this large-scale period? That's a good question. What is happening to political innovation in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food? Could anyone answer that? What kind of greater political vision is that of the Minister for Agriculture and Food? So far during this great period, we have almost not got a single case on the board of the Business Committee from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and now the period is running out. We don't have much time now if we're going to design a good new and forward-looking agricultural policy. It is therefore regrettable that the majority of the population recently voted in favour of the proposal by the Right, supported by the Progress Party, to promote a big message of a new and forward-looking agricultural policy. If one goes into the positions that have been discussed in the Economic and Social Committee so far during this period, on the agricultural agreement and other aspects of agricultural policy, it can quickly be seen that it is the Progress Party which has been most offensive and which has made many good proposals which have received partial support from the other non-socialist parties. What surprises me is that these proposals have been defeated by the government parties. There are proposals for niche production and proposals to assess the tax burden on agricultural operators. The representative, Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen, said in his speech that it is important to pursue a policy for family farms. He even said that young people who have been out of school getting good experience when they come home to take over family life. Then I want to ask the question, what is family use? Is there a use with 17 and 1/2 cows that no one can live on today? Is that what should be attractive for those young people who have been out and been educated? It is quite obvious that they do not come back to the countryside with such a policy, which is designed to hunt people from the countryside rather than make it attractive to come home and take over the family farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e989	I must say that I fully agree with the representative, Mr Korsberg, who said earlier today that he felt that the TV cameras should be directed more often at this platform. It is said very important from here, but when I heard Korsberg's posts, I understand the reason they don't. Norway remains one of the world’s leading maritime nations. 90,000 people have their daily work in what we can call maritime businesses. We have long and solid traditions. The width of our maritime environment is quite impressive and ranges from shipping companies and shipping to offshore, equipment and shipyards. And we're going to get even better, as the government adds up to its maritime strategy. The maritime industries live in strong international competition and operate in a global market. Therefore, industries must have framework conditions that enable them to compete. And that is why the Government is now introducing Europe's best shipping tax system, as the shipping industry itself has wanted. In this respect, we should remember that the majority of the Shipowners' Committee voted in favour of equalising shipping activities with all other industries in Norway — otherwise fully in line with the business-neutral business policy of the Bondevik Government. In addition, the Government has maintained and expanded the so-called net pay system for seafarers, which allows Norwegian shipping companies to crew Norwegian ships with Norwegian crews. Then we would think that the shipping industry was satisfied – but no! The Shipowners’ Association does not manage to enjoy good framework conditions and again threatens to fly out because, at the time of the transition to the new tax regime, they have to pay two thirds of the tax liability incurred by shipping companies over time. The last third may be used for environmental investment. Now it is not surprising that Norwegian shipowners are trying to avoid paying taxes – rather that the opposition is supporting them in it. But it's pretty funny that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in their alternative budgets actually brings a tax that they're opposed to. Next year, the net pay scheme costs approx. DKr 1.7 billion. That's $300 million. kr more than the taxable companies have to pay back annually to the country for the next 10 years. But they get a good tax system, while governments are putting a strong emphasis on research and development, and there is a great deal of effort on maritime competence, recruitment and short sea shipping. On this basis, I think that the Norwegian Shipowners' Association and their associates in the Stortinget had probably earned a more balanced view of the Government's maritime policy. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is likely to set a new export record in 2007. Norway is exporting fish and fish products for as little as 37 billion DKK this year. The fishing industry is doing a great job. The level of profitability, both in farming, traditional fisheries and the processing industry, is consistently good. However, the reader of the opposition's comments on the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs' budget must have a different impression. In the absence of a comprehensive fisheries policy, the opposition, after the presentation and discussion of the structural message in Stortinget, has resorted to what I would call regular mowing. That is why we feel that there is a need to re-examine structural measures that have not yet entered into force and that we have not seen the effect of. However, the government parties have said that we need to evaluate the structural arrangements in 2009. The opposition has no time to wait for this. They are stuck in the fisheries policy that former Svein Ludvigsen led – and they will return to it as soon as possible. The divides in the Norwegian fisheries policy are becoming clearer and clearer. Government parties will have management of resources and off-takes. We want sustainable management of fishing resources. We want internationally binding agreements and reliable cooperation with other fishing nations in the fight against overfishing in the North Sea and in the Barents Sea. We will regulate access to fishing and ensure that both the sea fishing fleet and coastal fishermen have their fair share of the total quotas for the main stocks. We want delivery conditions that ensure the fish processing industry raw material all year round. We want participation law and raw fish law, and we want concession terms in the farming industry. The opposite is the sprawling politics of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is only the degree of liberalisation that separates them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1012	I have to say to the last speaker that the Labour Party is too law and rules and bureaucracy is no news. I'm going to use my post to essentially talk about two industries. That this is two of the most important industries in Trøndelag, is more of a coincidence. What I'm going to talk about is forest and breeding. Let me start by saying that I thought the representative Lundteigen asked a good question to the representative Korsberg, a question Korsberg of course answered very well. The question was about the future of the Norwegian forest industry and the value chain of Norwegian forestry. This value chain produces in trombone layers alone for $6 billion a year. The largest single actor in the world and Norway's clear largest timber collector are Norwegian Forest's factory at Fibortangen on Forest in Levanger. The factory depends on the delivery of three things to competitive conditions to succeed. It's power, timber and heat. With these facts in mind, I discovered that it is probably not the representative of Korsberg who can best answer the question about what is going on to save Norwegian woodworking industry and Norwegian Forest at Levanger. That question should be addressed to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. On May 2, 2006, the papers in Central Norway were full of the answer to that very question: What is going to do to save the Fibortangen? The answer is a gas power plant on the Fibortangen. Such a gas power plant would secure its power supply and provide cheap heat for forest production. Stoltenberg went as far as to say: «The next time I come, it must be to mark the start of the construction process» – for the thermal power plant, that is. Let me say it so that I hope it will be so, but a lot can indicate that former government council Eriksen has brought the toolbox to Northern Ireland, and that sitting Minister of Industry, Minister of Energy and Prime Minister does not have the tools they boasted of in the last two election campaigns. I'm afraid that the action mud in the government could lead to the next time the Prime Minister travels to North Trondelag, it becomes a torch train, as he did in Skien in 2005. We know how it went. Now it is up to the representative of Lundtigen and other forest friends in the government parties to ensure that the entire value chain for which Norwegian forestry is the basis can also make a significant contribution in the future to Norwegian value creation, welfare and employment. In this context, the NOx tax is a useful place to start. The NOx charge amounts to DKK 1.6 to 1.8 billion in expenditure and reduced competitiveness for Norwegian business. $1.8 billion is a little bit of an academic size. More seriously, some jobs in the fishing fleet have received a fee of NOK 60 000 per year. annual work. I remember that the fee has not had the desired effect at all, and that nothing indicates that the emissions of NOx have decreased in 2007. A number of representatives from the government parties, mentioned by the representative Breck, have announced that this work is being done and that it is more difficult than expected. I would like to remind you that a year and a half ago, the Progress Party proposed to investigate a NOx fund scheme instead of introducing a fiscal charge. So to the second major export industry in Trøndelag: the aquaculture industry. In the sea areas outside the three municipalities of Hitra, Frøya and Snillfjord in the South-Trøndelag, almost 2 million noon tracks of seafood are produced every day, mainly salmon. This is about as much food as the entire Norwegian farm produces in one day. Production and exports of Norwegian salmon have been a success, despite strong ups and downs, and despite attempts to establish regional policy rather than industrial policy considerations for the treatment of the industry. Recently, salmon prices have fallen. On the one hand, this has led to falling profitability, but still profitability. At the same time, the fall in prices has contributed to an increase in the total volume of salmon. Norway has for many years been the world’s most prominent exporter of salmon. This position is now threatened by Chile. The party considers that there is reason to be concern that Norwegian exports of salmon represent a smaller share of the world market than a few years ago, and that the position of world leader is weakened. In our view, the objective should be to maintain the position as the largest exporting country in the future. It might be interesting if the Minister for Fisheries could comment on this in his speech and say whether she agrees that the objective of Norwegian salmon production should be to be the largest in the future. Norwegian companies producing more in Chile and Scotland are good, but Norwegian production is growing to contribute to Norwegian prosperity and well-being in the future. The only way to correct the loss of market shares is to increase the volume of production. Increased production in the salmon industry may take place through the award of new concessions or through increased production within the existing concessions. Current legislation with maximum biomass is an obstacle to increased production in existing concessions. In this context, I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party to increase the maximum authorised biomass.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1048	Yesterday, like many others in this room, I attended Al Gore's Nobel lectures in Oslo City Hall. He had a very clear message, which made me even more confident, if possible, that the overall environmental and climate challenges are today's most important challenge. At the same time, the link between these climate problems and the international food situation is becoming more apparent. Agriculture, both agriculture and forestry, plays a very important role in climate and environmental work both in Norway and in the rest of the world. Food production and consumer energy contribute in isolation to global CO2 emissions. At the same time, the forest is the global carbon capturer of the world, and it stores CO2. Conversely, deforestation contributes to a situation we do not want. A good agricultural policy is therefore a policy that is also good climate policy. We are developing Norwegian agriculture further within this broad environmental concept. It is a work that I give very high priority to, and I am pleased that a majority of the Committee points out that there is a need to step up efforts towards the environmental challenges of agriculture in the future. I am strengthening the ministry's efforts in this area considerably in the future. Agriculture is undergoing major changes and facing major challenges related to future national food production, profitability and recruitment to the industry. Agricultural incomes vary over the year according to natural and market conditions. In addition, it takes time to change an industry with long-term perspectives. As a starting point, it is natural to see income trends over time. For farmers such as standing in the middle of a construction project, it is a reality that bills are not paid in the long term but in 14 days. There has been a debate in the Chamber today on what has happened before. I very much agree with the representative of Kongshaug and others that what is the point now is to look ahead and make changes that contribute to an improved situation. At the same time, it's okay to agree that we have a period of significant challenges behind us in that income trends were clearly lower than for other groups. It has been a challenge to address it and improve income trends, so that the potential for future agricultural development is better than has been the case. We work hard to get both incomes and optimism into place in agriculture. Then it's completely incomprehensible what we see, that the right parties here in the Stortinget are actively working against it by attacking the concluded agricultural agreement and proposing billion-dollar cuts in agricultural appropriations. Many are concerned about the market situation and the shortage of Norwegian goods in a number of productions. I am also very impatient in this area. At the same time, I would like to stress that market demand also implies increased opportunities for industrial development on individual farms. We have put in place several measures to contribute to increases in production, as well as the efforts of the agricultural agreement. I have noticed that the Right and Advance Party have also expressed concern for, among other things. sheep and milk. However, the right-hand batches double communicate when they require production-enhancing measures while proposing to reduce industry profitability by NOK 30000 and DKK 120000 per industry respectively. annual work. I believe that it increased the price of sheep meat by NOK 4 per year. kg, together with increased subsidies put in place in the agricultural agreement of the year, is the main individual measure for several decades to increase the production of sheep meat. The proposals of the Right and the Advance Party are the clearest proposals to reduce the scope of the same production. In the last few weeks, we have been reminded of the importance of ensuring safe food. The consequences of the unwanted presence of bacteria in food may be disastrous for individuals. Therefore, safe food is the main objective of food policy. Together with the other professionals in the departments, I am constantly working on implementing effective measures along the whole value chain. Food security in Norway is generally good. Following the serious outbreaks of E. coli last year in the bacon, both the Food and Public Health Institute have had a thorough review and have taken a number of measures to be better equipped to cope with similar situations. The recent list case of mycotosis has had tragic consequences for some, and shows that improvements are still needed to ensure food safety and to provide good guidance and safe diets to vulnerable groups. I have stressed in the budget proposal that the Food Safety Authority must release resources internally in order to increase the guidance and supervision activity on individual farms, on individual farms. Simplifications in legislation have also helped to free up resources. In other words, we're taking action to strengthen food security work by making it less administration and more supervision. I want to follow closely the improvement work in the Food Safety Authority in the future. The Committee has done a good and thorough job on this. The setting shows clear lines in the direction of agricultural policy. Nevertheless, I note that a clear majority on the Stortinget supports the government's agricultural and food policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1078	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1081	Having participated in a number of debates with the Minister of Agriculture and Food over the past two years, I have come to understand that he thinks that the agricultural agreement is a good instrument for managing Norwegian agricultural policy. We are not going to have a debate on this. But at the same time, when you have such a tool as the agricultural agreement is, it would have to be interesting to go in and see what the objectives have been achieved in the years we have had an agricultural agreement in Norway – this in order to improve the instrument of the agricultural agreement, in view of the agricultural policy to be pursued in the years ahead. I could imagine asking the Council of State if he would be involved in launching a project to review the achievement of the objectives that must be in the context of the agricultural agreement, and see if the objectives set out in this agreement have been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1089	As for the objectives we have achieved through the agricultural agreement, I think it's worth remembering yourself and maybe others on some facts about it. One fact is that we are now producing more food in Norway than we have ever done before. The demand for Norwegian food is also higher than it has been at any time. In the case of meat, we have e.g. a production increase of 2 pst. in 2007, as it now looks. Chicken production is increasing by a total of 14 pst. in 2007. We also see that through the contractual system and through its market governance, which is strongly opposed to the Progress Party, we are able this year to reduce sales charges by 300 million. kr. There is a rather delicate reduction in costs for Norwegian food producers. We also see that, by having market governance now, we can quickly re-establish a control of the milk market that means that we have a production that is proportionate to the objectives that lie ahead. I believe that having a system of an agricultural agreement, having a managed agricultural policy, clearly proves to have an effect on the achievement of the objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1096	In yesterday's Sunnmørsposten, small power owners and center partyman Gunnar Højdal from Volda spoke about the government's energy policy, which he thought was taken from the very beginning. It has not led to the realization of a single kilowatt-hour of renewable energy, the deployment of renewable energy has almost ceased, and what has been built is, despite and not because of the policy pursued by the Government. He pointed out that small towns in the West are hit by end-of-use and relocation, and that small-scale industries often contribute to generating income in places where there is little other nutrient base. Reversing the trend by reintroducing land-interest taxes on power plants between 1500 and 5000 kWh is almost an incomprehensible one. He calls it an array of values in the towns. He will now resign from the batch with immediate effect, and also recommends others to do the same. Is the Central Party comfortable with the policy in this area? And will the Council of State do something to correct the miscarriage, which is also affecting industrial development in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1105	As the representative is probably aware, and as Parliamentary leader Lars Peder Breck has said on several occasions, it is explicitly stated in the opinion of the Committee on Finance that issues relating to these areas must be thoroughly and promptly reviewed. That means that we see that this right here is a need to do it. The goal is to make sure that we put in place the renewable power that is needed. We have taken considerable action in relation to the general use of the instrument here by adding a lot of money to Enova compared to what has been done in the past. That means we have more money at our disposal to invest in renewable energy than ever before. When we get concrete insights into what's happening in the countryside in terms of building renewable energy installations, and it's not happening at a rate that we could wish for, it's natural to go through the situation thoroughly. That's what we're doing here in the hall, which is what we're going to do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1110	The inhabitants of Åkneset near Geirangerfjord are concerned. They want to put in place a 24-hour continuous monitoring of the heavy masses of mountains that literally hang threateningly over them. People think it's too late, and people are worried. The municipalities and other municipalities are engaged. So my question is: will the Council of State now speed up the task of establishing a 24-hour continuous monitoring here, so that people can feel safe, and will he have a close dialogue with the municipality of Stranda and the other municipalities? To put it a little folkly, will the Council of State on the Red Rape make sure that something happens here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1117	That's what the Council of State has done for the longest time! For the first time, we have put the monitoring system in Storfjorden and Stranda linked to Åkneset, a historical project for – if I do not remember faults – approx. 64 million. kr. In addition, this year we've said that we're making $10 million. kr to a 24-hour continuous monitoring centre based on a joint project with local authorities. As far as I have observed, it has been very well received in the local environment of Storfjorden, and is seen as a contribution from the Government to just putting in place the security that the representative Sørfonn demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1126	We are in a new situation with regard to Norwegian agriculture, given that we have previously had overproduction, regulation, sales fees, etc., while we are now in a phase where there is too little food produced in this country compared to the market. There are also signs that there are more people who want to quit the industry. There's a lot of reasons for that, and it's complex, of course. There's also a danger that it can be produced less food on the areas that we have. We have been so lucky that existing gardeners have taken over the areas that have been in production. I ask, does the Council agree that there is a new situation? Would it not have been fruitful if the Council of State brought a case to the Stortinget where we could discuss agricultural policy in the light of the new situation and also include the new situation in relation to the WTO? I do not expect him to give a message – we do not have time for that, but simply one thing with an invitation to a broad political debate in the United Kingdom on agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1133	To take the last one first: what can be defined as the new situation, that is, that we have an international situation with more focus on shortages of food than on abundance, and that one sees that the need for land use around the world will be greater in the future than has been the case in recent years, is, as I have said in Stortinget in the past, very important and something I intend to come back to Stortinget with a broad explanation about as soon as I think I have a good enough factual basis for it. So I have to say that in the context of the big climate debate and what's going on about agriculture, it's interesting to see how much remains to be done in terms of research and knowledge. That is exactly why I also believe it is important that proper work be done in this area, so that we know what measures we are going to take in order to achieve effective measures that actually work. As far as the representative of Kongshaug here mentions a new situation with regard to the need for food, I believe that, for example. the need to use Norwegian pastures becomes quite different when one sees that the use of land in other countries represents significant environmental challenges in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1142	As I was in my post, there is a certain bureaucracy in agricultural management. I showed you, among other things: to today's business and a number of other statements in this way. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has also stressed in the financial debate that there are some red tape and that much can be simplified. The centre party, as he asserted it, ‘will control broadly, not in small detail’. Then are the questions to the Council of State: How will the Council of State simplify the everyday life of Norwegian farmers? Why increase red tape in agricultural management, while the number of farmers is decreasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1149	In the case of agricultural bureaucracy, to which the representative of Korsberg refers, there is never such a small paradox here. The Food Authority, which represents a very important part of this bureaucracy – if I do not remember errors, about 1 400 years of work – is a supervision that must be there completely independent of food production in Norway. It's a supervision that goes far beyond just producing food. And as far as I have recorded in the debate so far today, the only party that has actively joined in order to increase activity in that area, the Progress Party. With regard to how we are going to ensure that there is a simpler everyday life for the farmer and other small business owners, I believe that what we are doing now in relation to the hygiene package and the common regulation we are getting for control through it is a concrete contribution away from a situation where the controllers have to stand and look at every single chicken passing through a slaughterhouse, or have to enter and, as it is said here, check every detail, that more of the control is transferred to the individual business, and that the authorities are more in and have overall control – in line with what I thought was the intention behind the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1156	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1159	Agriculture is an exciting industry — an industry with huge challenges, but also an industry with an incredible number of possibilities. The government has seen clear goals through the Soria Moria statement, and we're doing well to deliver. The general framework conditions are important – income to live from, access to capital through initial investment and welfare provision that provides security for both illness and holidays. In both last year’s and year’s agricultural policy, important action was taken to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian farmers. In this year's agreement, milk producers get about NOK 25 000 more per year. annual work. Sauebruka received an increase of over NOK 35000, while the impact for suckler cow production is about NOK 28 000 per year. annual work. So a no-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go. But the number to which it is referred has its starting point, whether we like it or not, in the agricultural agreements negotiated under the Bondevik II regime. For us in the Labour Party, it is important to have said that farmers are a profession of which we are proud. We must have room for the large co-operations that largely serve the needs of the food industry, but also single producers of whom there are still many, including. There I am. Think of producing safe food in an animal-ethical manner, nurturing the cultural landscape, having the ability to let the animals out on mountain pasture and make sure that we have national self-storage of about 50 pst.Oh, my God! We should be aware that food that we have the intention to produce should be produced nationally as far as it is easy to do. Political decisions must also be more closely aligned. That's the same thing as 15 pst. organic production, in a better balance with the tolerability of the soil. A green industry can become even greener with political arrangements of transfers in order to achieve its objective. Travel life also benefits from the farmer's work, both as a commodity supplier and not least because of the effect we all get from well-hauled towns. The World Heritage Site in Geirangerfjord had not been on the UN list of unique experiences but, I had almost said, aided by animals and humans. Desertification and flooding can give us an entirely different world society in a very short time. In addition, the world economy is growing in nations like China and India. The demand for food is increasing, and world market prices are rising rapidly. The outcome for Norwegian farmers following a negotiated WTO agreement has not been clarified either. The only thing that's certain is that the struggle for food will grow in the years to come, and Norway has many possibilities, perhaps even for exports, if we exploit them. The government has a clear objective that we should also have a significant food production after the WTO agreements are in place. We are looking forward to the Council of State coming forward to next year's agricultural negotiations with regard to measures to increase production where we take advantage. There is room for larger production volumes mostly in all areas of agriculture. One must try to get as close to his own consumption as he can. Overproduction, for many, is a poor economy in the form of 'punishment charges'. Forests provide income opportunities and can provide additional income, biodiesel and bio-fuels on major withdrawals in the future. The forest captures CO2, and good care and planting is very good for the environment. We have a lot of untapped possibilities here. The Forest Fund scheme provides good leadership for a forward-looking policy, and there we have nothing but good words for the change of course from the red-green. It can't be right for us in the richest countries to buy up the corn from the poor in developing countries to give ourselves some kind of alibi with environmental fuel on the petrol tank. We take away the most important foundation of diet, while we can use our own forest with a good conscience and create our own biofuels. There has to be more connection between life and learning. Then I see that the clock is ticking. I had something more on my heart, drawing myself a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1184	Never has the starting point been better for Norway, never has so many been in work and paid taxes, never has tax revenue been higher, nor has Norwegian business been better, and the North Sea revenue has never been greater. In spite of this, we experience a government that puts most of it in reverse, with rest cuts and constantly new fault cuts. It is painful to experience that the Government does not take responsibility and spends the good time investing in the future. The right is strongly critical of the government's increasingly absenteeism. The red-green went to the 2005 elections with strong promises for a new industrial policy. Today, we experience that the so-called new policy is retrospective and involves an increasingly strong commitment to public ownership. At the same time, there is a poorer policy for private ownership and entrepreneurs. The LO in More and Romesdal have encouraged the Government to put in place a corporate tax in line with our foreign competitors, and refers in particular to the need for a reduction in the wealth tax on jobs. In their statement to the Budstikke of Romsdal, they stress that the engineering industry in the North-West has shown that the industry is able to successfully meet foreign competition. The same applies to the subcontractors of the industry. This is largely due to the fact that the companies have very good competence in the products they supply. But competence alone is not enough to ensure a viable industry. If Norwegian companies are to be able to compete in an increasingly tough globalised market, they must have predictable frameworks. The LO also indicates that the tax regime in this context is very important and that most European countries, including Denmark and Sweden, have removed the property tax. The LO has understood something that the Norwegian Government has not understood, namely that the Government’s industrial policy is distorting competition and that it will over time strengthen foreign competitors at the expense of Norwegian industry. The right has worked hard for increased investment in research. What we see is that knowledge and research are prioritised by the red-greens through the famous rest cutting. The basis for future knowledge and growth is far weaker than it should be in a rich country where everything is ready to invest for the future. A forward-looking industrial policy and a responsible economic policy with growth-creating tax reliefs under the centre – The Higher Government strongly contributed to Norway today experiencing historically good times with strong growth in tax revenues. We now have a unique opportunity to build on a society that creates opportunities for everyone, and we have a commitment to invest so that the good times persist. Despite the record high tax revenues, we see a government with a lack of ability to get more out of the resources and that does not have the power to prioritize the major tasks. We see that the tourism industry, which is a major and important growth industry for District Norway, is today hit hard with government policy. At the same time, we experience that the small power plants that produce renewable energy, which are a beloved extra income for many farmers, are currently being taxed in full with today's government. The tax NOx also hits the fishing fleet hard, and the shrimp fleet disappears. The Government's proposal for a transitional regime for a new shipowner's tax system weakens the investment capacity of the shipping companies and thus also the clusters. In short, industry is being reversed and is raging along the coast with the policies of today's government. Value creation and jobs are weakened when the Government also increases next year the taxes on private capital invested in Norwegian enterprises. The proposal to remove the so-called stock discount affects family and private companies. A forward-looking industrial policy that facilitates growth is the best guarantee for achieving common well-being. Enterprise policy must stimulate conversion and offer competitive framework conditions in relation to our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1213	Fisheries and aquaculture are very important for employment and value creation both for the country as a whole and especially for coastal districts. The grips of fisheries and aquaculture policy are of great importance for the development of district Norway. That perspective is also reflected in the budget submitted next year. A lot of numbers have been mentioned here earlier today. I'm going to do that, too. Norway exports 27 million fish meals a day to quality customers around the world. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure and document that our fish are picked up from a clean sea, and that the seafood we sell is safe to eat. We also need to ensure that fish are harvested from sustainable populations and in a sustainable way. In the course of the two years this government has been sitting, we have been committed to fighting the so-called blackfish. The many different measures we have taken already show good socio-economic results. The decline in overfishing in the Barents Sea from 2005 to 2006 was as high as 23 pst. for cod and 55 pst. for elevators. This is now benefiting law-abiding coastal fishermen in terms of higher catch quotas and better market prices. We're not going to rest on the laurels for that reason. Fishing crime includes high values and the resistance to fish jacks must be maintained and strengthened to prevent illegal caught fish from finding new ways into the markets. That is why we are proposing to further strengthen appropriations for measures against illegal fishing by 10 million. kr to next year. This is money for the development of electronic tools, increased landing control and increased international cooperation on resource control. This will strengthen our impact on black fishing, and it is in stark contrast to the decline of the Fisheries Directorate by the previous government, and thus also the capacity of the agency to carry out control work and international cooperation, which are key factors in combating illegal fishing. I am pleased that the majority in the committee joins the Government's proposal for a significant reduction in both the annual fee and the registration fee for the brand register. The reason for this downward adjustment is that the new annual fee for the brand register introduced by the Bondevik II government resulted in fishermen paying much more than the actual costs they had in administering it. This is now corrected. The employment analysis for 2006 has recently been completed. It's a very interesting reading compared to the somewhat negative descriptions of the reality of the fishing industry as, among other things, has been expressed in this room. The profitability analysis shows that the year-round fishing fleet in 2006 had a total operating surplus of DKK 1.7 billion, and profitability is good in most vessel groups. In addition, a new export record was set last year, and it goes against a new export record this year. Good value creation in the coming years requires that we continue to ensure that fish stocks are managed sustainably, and that in other ways we facilitate the development of the fishing industry, such as the marine value creation programme and the establishment of the new state investment fund, where half a billion dollars are earmarked for the marine sector. The Government will also ensure that Norwegian aquaculture industry is developed and operated in a sustainable manner and within an acceptable framework in terms of land and resource use, fishing health, fishing welfare and environmental impacts. Work on escaped farmed fish is a high priority, and it is working on a broad front to bring down the escape figures. It is gratifying to note good results there too. For salmon, we have less than half as many escapes this year as last year, and also for marine fish, we have significantly lower numbers this year than last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1233	I would like to begin by boasting to the Council of State for following up what former Fisheries Minister Svein Ludvigsen did in combating overfishing with an international code. It's like the ministry has increased the budget by 10 million. kr to combat overfishing. It probably makes Russian thief fishermen and others tremble a little bit. The values of what is taken illegally represent almost NOK 2 billion. So this is a big and important question. Recently, the Coast Guard came with figures showing that they need to reduce the number of days sailing to the next year compared to the year of about one year. 25 pst. It's never been so low. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: is it reducing the Coast Guard budget so much that you have to reduce the sailing days by 25 p.m., part of the strategy to combat overfishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1240	A very important strategy to combat overfishing is better regulation and international cooperation. It's not something that comes out of itself. It requires capacity both in the Ministry of Fisheries and in the Directorate of Fisheries. It is quite clear that the cuts proposed by the Progress Party in the budget are 23 million. kr i cut in the department and 5 million. kr in the Fisheries Directorate, would lower our capacity to do this important work. The big mantra of the Progress Party in many contexts is building down bureaucracy, but the bureaucracy and the people we have working on this is actually a key, among other things. to follow up the control agreements we have put in place. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, we have significantly strengthened the Coast Guard in the two previous budgets in relation to what the previous government and the Progress Party stood for. We have better capacity – the new vessels we are putting into service now have significantly greater reach than the old coastguard vessels had. So our capacity is built up, not down.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1249	The NOx fee takes a smurf roof on, among other things. the fishing industry and the cruise industry. Both State Councillor Helga Pedersen, State Councillor Andersen and State Secretaries have made it up to several times that the NOx tax should not be a fiscal charge and that an environmental fund scheme should be negotiated. After long training by the Government, on Wednesday 5 December, an environmental fund agreement was finally to be in place to reduce NOx emissions. The agreement was to be concluded between the country and 18 trade organisations. Unfortunately, there was a breach in the negotiations, which is justified by the fact that the government in the negotiations was not willing to give anything in relation to the retroactive effect. One could also read in the Fisheries Bulletin that the Government has shown itself in this context as a small credible party to the agreement. However, does the Council of State consider that the NOx tax should be a fiscal charge, since the tax already paid has gone right into the treasury and obviously remains there? And does the government really want to put in place a NOx fund in line with what the industries want?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1271	It is quite right that the NOx tax has been introduced to combat NOx emissions, which will also benefit the marine environment, on which fishermen depend. When the government has had a very bad time in this matter, it is linked to the fact that the Bondevik II government did not do anything to meet the Gothenburg obligations, as the Storting decided many years ago. The negotiations between the Government and the industry are now taking place, in a good tone, as far as I have been reported here. I am completely unknown that there is a breach of the negotiations, and I am also not aware that 5 December is set as an end date for the negotiations. They're still going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1286	A recent EU report states that EU fishermen operate almost uncontrolled overfishing, and the report confirms that there is no overview of the number of fish actually caught. We know that up to 60 pst. of the fish caught by the EU fishermen will be thrown out again. The EU Fisheries Commissioner, Joe Borg, recently commented to the NRC that the Union agreed that something had to be done, but they did not know how to become some. In a joint remark, the government party states: ‘The draft mandate practised by the EU has been criticised by Norway and is for evaluation.’ Earlier today, 'pusete' has been approved as a parliamentary expression. If this is the Government's approach, that must be the case. Does the government council have tougher and more accurate tools in their sleeves to end the huge waste of food that is actually here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1298	There is probably a lot that could have been said about the EU's fisheries policy here, both strong and weak. What is important for Norway is that we have good cooperation with the EU on the stocks that we manage together. We have put in place a number of agreements in recent years that ensure this, and the relationship between Norway and the EU in the area of fisheries policy, I believe, has never been as good as it is now. The EU, under pressure from Norway, has engaged in ‘spooking’ fishing and has taken a force to clean up the so-called ‘spooking’ yarns. It was an important matter for Norway. We have also addressed the issue of drafts, which are resource waste, as the representative of Sørfonn correctly pointed out. Fisheries Commissioner Joe Borg has now proposed a new EU policy in this area, and I look forward to it becoming the Union's policy. In the UUU area, Norway has also influenced the EU Commission in the right direction. There's a lot of positive happening in that area, even though we're not in the goal yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1307	There is considerable concern in the fishing industry and among the parties involved in the precautionary principle that oil-related activities are spreading in increasingly new areas and into traditional areas of the fishing industry. One of the activities there is, among other things. seismics and tests which may interfere with fish and spawning migration. The fishing team has called for a halt to the ongoing seismic investigations in the Barents Sea, but the deadlines have been extended repeatedly. We are very concerned that the spawning migration of the fish is being disrupted. There is increasing oil exploration, but we have too little knowledge of the consequences of seismic studies. Will the Council of State give priority to taking a boost to the allocation of research funds so that we can gain more knowledge of the consequences of seismics and the living conditions of fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1314	I fully agree that it is important to ensure good co-existence between the different nutritional actors using the same marine area. When the Government presented the management plan for the Barents Sea, the Leader of the Fiskerlag also went out and said that the Fiskerlag had got all the points in the management plan. I would also like to remind you that the fishing industry was very satisfied with the conclusion that the Government drew on the Moor blocks. This summer we know that there have been some conflicts between the seismic surveys and the fishing industry in Northern Ireland. The Minister of Oil and Energy has taken hold of this, and before the next season, there is a better way to ensure that conflicts are avoided. There have also been some writings in the media about seismic shooting outside the North Cape. The directorate has been in dialogue with the individual fishermen and has stated that the investigations will be conducted in agreement with the actors who are there, so I also consider that to be confirmed. Then, of course, we have to follow up on a continuous basis when seismic studies take place, and make sure that we have the best available knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1326	I note that the Council of State is not necessarily of the opinion that it is a goal that Norway should be the largest producer country for Atlantic salmon, but that we should have an offensive farming policy. It doesn't hold up to $4 million. People to produce the fish, we have to export it too. Now it is that, despite growth in Asian markets, the EU is the major receiving market for Norwegian salmon. However, a few farmers in Scotland together with a few Scottish politicians are able to close the whole European market for free and good framework conditions for the export of Norwegian salmon, both processed and unprocessed. In this setting, where Norway is hindered by market access to its main market by a few Scottish breeders, the Government finds it opportunistic to close the only official contact point between Norway and Scotland, the Consulate General in Edinburgh. Can the Council of State explain to me why this is a sensible export policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1333	Firstly, I feel very confident that Norway will be able to cope with our competitors, including Chile, in the coming years. It's about volume, but it's also about quality. And it's about having control, among other things. with the disease image, and that's something you're struggling with in Chile now. For the Progress Party, who wants to remove regulations in all respects, there is something to think about. As far as relations with the EU are concerned, we have had the salmon case in the WTO panel. Norway took note of all the important points. And it's probably the case in this case that the great battles are fought in Brussels and not in Edinburgh.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1340	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1343	I experience the budgets of the Business Committee as offensive and positive. The Government has also this year made proposals for a State budget which is a follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration. But there are still challenges. A major task we have not yet solved is industrial access to energy in a long-term perspective. In Trøndelag, this is a particular challenge. In central Norway, we have too little energy in total, and the county is established as a separate price range. This is a situation that the Storting itself, over time, has created, and as I see it, government and greatness must also contribute to solving these challenges. I want to raise an industry that usually does not receive particular attention in the political debate, and it is the mining and mineral industry, which employs more than 5,000 people and provides more than 9 billion kroner in export revenue. Norwegian environments represent peak competence. Many are surprised that average people use 1,100 tons of minerals throughout their lives. Everywhere, we surround ourselves with processed mineral products that contribute to the prosperity we have. This is a forward-looking district industry without subsidies that stands on its own feet. And in this area, we have a lot of untapped opportunities over the whole country. The only threat, as I see it, is that we almost no longer train rescue engineers at the Institute of Geology and Rock Engineering at NTNU. The majority in the Committee have asked the Government to address this challenge. With this bottleneck out of the world and with a new mineral law, I think the rock industry is facing a promising development. Another industry with enormous opportunities is the space industry, where the government's investment has provided new opportunities for the Norwegian research and industrial environment. I would particularly like to mention the bet through the European Space Agency as incredibly exciting. This allows Norwegian companies to win contracts within a number of ESA programmes, which have a positive impact on innovation and innovation in this country. The Kongsberg Group is among the largest actors in the Norwegian space-related industry. But components from Norspace in Horten are now aboard 110 satellites that float around the globe. I also remember the business committee's visit to Eidsvoll Electronics for a while, a company that delivers electronics modules to the space industry. This is a competence company, established 40 years ago, with 20 employees, with defence, telemetry and space as areas of activity. Here we are talking about tomorrow's technology, knowledge-intensive products. These are some of the many examples that space exploration creates industrial opportunities across the country. Anyone who has been at sea knows something about the importance of navigation and communication technology. In fact, in recent decades space activities have become an indispensable part of the infrastructure of the entire society. Satellite images are necessary for the effective exercise of sovereignty by monitoring sea areas and fishing fleets, inter alia. I am pleased that the focus on simplification will continue next year, because systematic investment in this area is important in order to achieve long-term effects in business. Altinn is the portal of the authorities for electronic dialogue with the business community, and a recent survey shows that in less than three years business awareness and use of the portal have doubled. Users also report that they spend less time on public forms using Altin. It's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1360	The Government attaches great importance to the fact that competition law and public procurement rules should be effective means of promoting competition. It is important to ensure efficient use of resources for society and good and reasonable goods and services for consumers. These regulatory frameworks provide a framework for business behaviour in the market and ensure that competition takes place in controlled, social-starred forms for the benefit of all of us. It applies in the vast majority of markets. There is also a need for strong competition supervision with clear powers. Of course, with the emphasis placed by the Government on competition and effective markets, it is for this government that competition policy must be under political control. In this way, an aggregate increase has also in the previous period designed the competition law so that it is possible. I have noticed that the opposition is critical that the Government has made some of the Competition Authority's decisions based on political considerations. The opposition exaggerates the significance of this. A exactly the same practice was followed in the previous period. But the few examples we have show that the Government actively controls competition policy, and that in some cases we also have a different view from the opposition to the balance between the concern for competition and the concern for other important policy objectives. I have noticed that the Right is also critical that the Ministry has made its decisions in merger cases on a professional basis about the Competition Authority. This is alarming. The Administrative Act is based on the possibility of submitting an administrative decision to a superior body. All experience shows that certain decisions at the time are converted by the Board of Appeal. The Ministry’s professional review of the supervision of its decisions in appeals is thus important for the parties to the merger’s legal security. The government believes that competition is not always the right tool to achieve important social goals, and I am pleased that the representative of the Christian People's Party was also involved in the same thing. In order to solve problems related to market failures, such as: impurities, and natural monopolies, such as in the power grid, are required with other forms of public control and control. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has stated that, within important areas such as health, care and education, one should build on Community solutions and strengthen public responsibility. Public purchases in the state and municipality amounted to approx. $248 billion in 2006. This is why the government attaches too much importance to ensuring that the rules on public procurement ensure effective competition for deliveries to the state and local authorities, so that these resources are used as efficiently and socially as possible. In order to achieve this, the legislation must be known, understood and not least complied with. KOFA has been a success in many ways, and is important for compliance with public procurement rules. As the Business Committee has been busy with various issues and debates with me, the handling time in KOFA has been a problem for some time. To allow KOFA to bring down the remains, the government has granted extra privileges for a period of time. At the same time, I have asked for an average of not more than three months from a supplier submitting a complaint, until the matter has been clarified through the Secretariat's work and the decision has been taken. I'm pleased that KOFA has now reached that goal. In one year, we've had the remainders down from one year to three months. KOFA should have boasted, but it is also important, of course, to focus on keeping the processing time down in the coming year. There's no longer any need for extraordinary means to get it done. Now there is an established routine, one that has acquired the skills in place. We need to keep focus there, while saying that we should keep focus on good and fast case management. In 2007, KOFA was given advice to punish illegal direct purchases, which are the most serious breach of the rules, with a fee of up to 15 p.m. of the purchase. It should also, of course, help to improve compliance with the rules. Well, there's a percentage that's going to sweat when you make direct illegal purchases. From the new year onwards, the Directorate for Administration and ICT has been established. It will have a special task of investing in public procurement, including: through dissemination of knowledge and information on public procurement and by developing, operating and driving the use of electronic solutions. I'm not in doubt if we need that kind of body. We see that there are many violations of public procurement law both among municipalities and among state enterprises. We need tools to remove the pieces.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1382	One of the largest contracting entities in Norway next to the oil and gas sector is the public sector. The government is making purchases for – the state council probably mentioned the number – let's say several hundred billion dollars a year, and that's the amount that increases every year. At the same time, reports show, among others: by the National Audit Office that an increasing number of public bodies are in breach of the public procurement rules. Does the Council of State feel responsible for the situation, and what action has the Council of State taken to ensure effective competition in the mission to the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1387	We are taking this very seriously. The Riksrevision report referred to by the representative of Øyvind Korsberg was for 2006. I expect, of course, that in the future, national audit reports will demonstrate a completely different practice when it comes to complying with the public procurement legislation. So 2006 was before we got the new code in place. It came into place from the New Year, 1 January 2007. We've spent the rest of the year setting up counsellors, both electronically and in writing. I have sent out letters to all the departments and sub-departments with clear notice to uphold the code. We'll now create the directorate, which will have its own section dealing with public procurement guidance and dissemination of knowledge. We do so in close cooperation with KS, and KS obviously has a great responsibility for one in the municipal sector to comply with the legislation, as we do in the state sector. But we're taking this very seriously. There is a waste of public resources not to use the legislation and possibilities that lie there, and this council will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1392	I will follow up the question from the representative of Korsberg. It's true that the situation is very serious. We have purchases for probably NOK 280 billion for the public sector. Infringement of procurement rules leads to waste, but it also leads to a risk of corruption and creates major problems for business. The government has taken some action, made a legislative change, granted a few million to the complaints body, KOFA. But as I have seen the signals from business, there is nothing to suggest that attitudes in the public sector have improved particularly. On the contrary, we are constantly looking at breaches of the procurement law, also high up – in fact, quite close to the government level. Does the Council of State have any new measures in place, or could it be that the government's signals to increase the tendering threshold, so that many of these purchases fall below the tender threshold, reduce the public sector's willingness to comply with this legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1399	Either the purchase is above or below the threshold of 500000 kroner, the rules for public procurement shall be followed as far as it is in line with the rules above or below. Among other things, the general rules on competition also apply to purchases below NOK 500000. One should preferably light up the offer. You have to run the offer rounds. Not least, a written record of the purchase to be made available to the public, both for those asking for it and not least for the audit, shall be required to ensure that public supply is properly conducted. Then we have an increased opportunity to complain to KOFA. Several have been given the opportunity to complain to KOFA. KOFA, as I have said, has been given the opportunity to charge a fee of up to 15 pst. of the purchase value. We have put in place a new and stricter legislation that began to apply on 1 January of this year. From New Year's, we'll get the directorate to work with new tools that make it easier and more transparent, but not least they'll be involved in spreading knowledge, so that buyers can promise to comply with the law that I'm engaged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1409	In the budget setting, some focus is on the possibilities to set aside the Competition Authority’s decision. On the one hand, it makes sense with such a political safety valve, but on the other hand, there is always a danger that this could be used as a hub for political special interests – it could be localization issues – and the distance to camaraderie is very short. My question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State say a little more about how it thinks when there are rules running for what time should be a political review of the Competition Authority's professional judgements and decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1417	I would first like to refute what Mr Sørfonn said – I do not know if he was quoting, or what he was doing, from the budget position. This government has no focus on setting aside the Competition Authority's decisions, as the representative Sørfonn said. On the contrary – we are focusing on reducing bureaucracy – when we are going to do so – and that is what the proposal that has been on the agenda is all about. As it is today, we intervene in all complaints to the Government on the basis of a competitive assessment. At some point in the proceedings, we may see that we are faced with a matter of such great social or political importance that we will have to use Section 21. Nevertheless, we must then complete the proceedings of the professional competition body, which the Competition Authority has already consistently done. In the new proposal, we say that it is better that the Competition Authority's case-making and decision-making stand as competitive assessments at all, and then the Government concentrates on the political decisions, which are to be made by politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1422	In the past, we have seen that there is a new situation for Norwegian agriculture, and regardless of the new WTO agreement or not, the situation in Norwegian agriculture and the processing industry will be affected by international conditions. It is a well-known case that all industries develop best in competition with others, and lack of competition leads to weakness and lack of creativity. It is probably also the case that we agree that there is a different level of innovation in agricultural-related processing industries and businesses. My question to the Council of State will then be: Does the Council of State consider that there is sufficient competition in agricultural-related activities and does the Council of State also consider that one should be careful to review the decisions of the Competition Authority in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1427	The agricultural policy pursued by this government also presupposes that one should have competition and stimulate competition, including in the agricultural sector. I myself have been visiting several of these industrial companies. There are more in Sogn and the Fjords that I know well, and I know something about how they view both this government's policy and its previous government's policy in relation to being innovative, coming with new product and thus being competitive domestically – not least, of which the representative is busy, if it were to come another time. We don't know that yet, but we can imagine that there might be another time in agriculture. I'm not particularly busy overseeing the Competition Authority, corkskins on agricultural policy issues or on other issues. We'll do that when we find it necessary. I have used two different paragraphs in the Competition Act. The one thing I'm counting on is what the representative refers to, is when we used Section 16. It was based on a different professional assessment from that of the Competition Authority. It is strongly demonstrated in the written material on which that decision is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1434	I want to go back to public procurement. If you read the Soria Moria statement, it says that the tender threshold should be raised to an EU level of 1.8 million. kr. Today's threshold is 0.5 million. kr. This means making a dramatic change, exempting parts of the 280 billion from the obligation to tender. It is correct, as the Council of State said, that the rules governing acquisition apply both above and under the tendering obligation. But the obvious thing for everyone who knows about the field is that if there is a tendering obligation, it is much easier to check whether the legislation has been complied with, and it is much more likely that the municipalities will follow the legislation if they are above the tender limit. The government has now said for two years that the tender threshold should be evaluated at half a million kroner. Doesn't the Council of State, based on the evolution that has occurred, and the massive amount of breaches that are in this area, mean that it would be completely pointless to increase up to 1.8 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Doesn't she see that it's considered to raise the tender threshold, actually is a very negative signal to send out, as the situation is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1445	Now there's probably both the advantages and the disadvantages of each of them setting the threshold. It's not at least Bondevik II, which raised the threshold just before we took over the fall of 2005. Now we are going to do what we have said to do, simply to carry out the evaluation, which looks at both a cost-benefit analysis of what Bondevik II did in 2005, and the corresponding cost-benefit analysis of moving up the EU threshold, as the Government has seen, and which the representative is also in Soria Moria. That means that we have to be open to get both positive and negative to do that grip. As the representative knows, I have been from this pulpit, and in other debates, also mentioned that one then of course has to take a new assessment of imposing a call in Doffin, that is to say to use some of the tools that we have so far chosen not to use, when we have introduced the value of 500,000. The evaluation will come in June 2008, and then I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a possible follow-up of threshold values.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1456	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1459	Business in Norway is going well. The cracking attempt of the opposition to blacken the situation cannot be said to be other than a shot in the dark. There have been debates in the past on both empty and full toolboxes and jewelry boxes in the field of business policy. I'm not going to rip it up. But we can see that Norwegian industry is doing well. The employment rate is high. Unemployment is the lowest in 20 years. More research and innovation is being facilitated. For government parties, state ownership is important, not because it is an objective in itself for the state to own as much as possible, but because the state wants to secure some goals through its ownership. State ownership helps to guarantee the right to dispose of our common natural resources. It is important to ensure national anchoring and long-term development of key enterprises. In addition, it can help to achieve other societal and political objectives that are important for the government parties. The proposed state budget and the majority position of the Storting show that the State is, and wants to be, an active and predictable owner. But government parties are not just concerned with state ownership. A diversity of ownership in Norwegian business is necessary — state and private, national and foreign. It is the sum of this diversity and interaction between them that best ensures a forward-looking, strong and competitive Norwegian business. We don't think the state or the private alone can solve the challenges we're facing, or secure the goals we're committed to. Previously during the harvest, the merged Statoil and the petroleum business of Hydro. The new company StatoilHydro will become a world-leading energy company with enhanced competitiveness both nationally and internationally. Through the merger, we've got a new company with resources and competences that provide enormous industrial opportunities. Our oil and gas deposits are common resources that should be managed by the community. Therefore, it is correct and important that the State contributes as an asset, predictable and long-term owner. One thing that has created debate among the parties on the Stortinget is the state's ownership of Aker Kværner. We are going to debate that matter later today, but I have to comment on the Left's comment in the budgetary position on this matter. There they try to present this as a pure gift package for Smoke. That's at best just a bad rhetorical point. The country's ownership of Aker is about ensuring long-term development, predictability and national ownership of a key company for the Norwegian petroleum industry. I am pleased that the bulk of the population will later today ensure that Aker Kværner will develop further as an important player in Norwegian business. This is an active ownership policy, and it is an active enterprise policy. I would also like to refer to the proposal for the withdrawal of already granted powers of sale in Cermaq ASA and Telenor ASA respectively. Government parties support this. It seems that the Right and Advance Party believe competition is the solution to all challenges. At the same time, in the government parties, we are constantly accused of believing that competition is the root of all evil. The last is a gross misconception. Competition is good in areas where the market operates and serves the interests of consumers. Competition between shops, mobile operators, shipbuilders or breweries is good, for that matter. But competition is not the solution to everything. Competition for the sake of competition has little purpose. The fundamental areas of well-being such as health, care and education and basic infrastructure shall be based mainly on Community solutions. In the areas of competition, it is important that this is done properly and properly. Infringements of competition law must be brought to an end. The same applies to breaches of the procurement law. And here I have to say a few words about KOFA. For 2006 and 2007, the Government increased the appropriations allocated to KOFA. And as we heard the Council of State say in the previous article, the time for handling the case is now down to the goal set by the Ministry. The lag on unfinished business has been picked up. It is important that public authorities deal with procurement legislation. It's not a little bit of money. Of course, it is an objective for public authorities to comply with the legislation that exists. The smallest possible cases should be brought to the attention of KOFA as a whole. But when the cases first end up there, it is important that they are able to follow this up satisfactorily. With the last few years of increased appropriations, KOFA should now stand well rusted in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1480	It is a question that has been raised by several speakers, but on which there has been no specific debate, and it is a topic on which there has been a great deal of attention in most of 2007 but especially now in the autumn. This concerns the increase in world market prices for some agricultural products, which means that on many important agricultural products the price level is now at Norwegian level – which has been a high level – and for some perhaps also above Norwegian level. A number of representatives of both the Centre Party and the agricultural industry then argued that the agricultural agreement had to be broken in order to increase the target prices during the contract period. The Minister for Agriculture has, as far as I know, rejected this and said that it must be taken into account in the normal agricultural negotiations for spring. Even the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen – if I heard correctly – said that the farmer should benefit from increased market prices. It must mean that the market-sceptic Per Olaf Lundtigen wants the market to operate in agricultural products as well. I and the Progress Party believe that this is very positive, because we want a free price formation for agricultural products, as is the case for all other products in Norwegian business. But what I'm going to suspect then about Lundtigen and a part of his friends is that the benefit is to be taken out only when agriculture can profit from it – that is, when prices on the world market rise above what has been the Norwegian target price. We can't have it like that. If you have faith that the market will prevail, you must also be aware that prices will have to go down when prices on the world market go down. What we should do in the current situation is to adjust agricultural policy, so that we can have an agricultural policy that can take over time, an agricultural policy that is more adapted to the agricultural policy that is out there in the world, and not now put Norwegian consumers in a further slippery position in the agricultural settlement next year to propose increased target prices in Norway, on the grounds that prices on the world market have fallen, without taking into account that prices can also fall, and that, in the event of that decline, agriculture will have to take its part. If that's the case, that you just want to take an ‘upside’ here, then Norwegian consumers will be the ones who get a ‘upside’ and who get a ‘upside’. Because if the good times have been used on international markets, with farmers' eyes on them, to increase the price of the domestic market, the difference between the Norwegian price and the world market price will become even greater when prices fall again. I do not know how long these price increases are, or if there is something that will go down again – if that is the case, it is quite doubtful for Norwegian consumers. We are also of the opinion that as long as one has a socialist system of target prices, one must now look at other possibilities to increase farmers' incomes rather than to thin consumers further. What about tax policy? An agricultural deduction has been introduced which benefits very few farmers, at least in terms of the maximum deduction. It is now time to look actively at the tax policy in order to increase farmers’ incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1495	The only public active business policy I remember was the Progress Party when they suggested that it should be public brothels in Norway. This budget shows that the four non-socialist parties are not at all an overall alternative – on the contrary. The Progress Party has also shown through this budget harvest that they use spreadsheets other than all other parties in Norway. I think they have some huge challenges in terms of all the billions of dollars to be spent on the non-socialist side after 2009. They have great challenges in agreeing on all the money to be spent – if they are to be able to reach agreement and thus have the hope of getting government power at all in 2009. We've been lucky in Norway. But it's not enough just to be lucky with the natural resources. We've also been lucky because we've been blessed with politicians who've wanted to do something about Norwegian society to get a better society. Those who started it were the ones who found out that they were going to further process the energy we have in Norway, and develop a business life based on it. So we got big oil and gas deposits. That this has led to the wealth that we have in Norway has not come of its own. It's through politically active industrial policy that we've got the well-being out of the crowns and the oil we've pumped up. Those who doubt it should take a trip to Nigeria and see what they've got out of an equal amount of oil and gas deposits in building society, compared to what we've done in Norway. It's not like Snow White, the Tent Goods, Kårstø and Mongstad have come by themselves. It is not that the country’s ownership has been immaterial to the development of business and jobs in Norway. That is exactly why we need to have an active industrial policy. I'm very proud that we have a government that conducts an active industrial policy. For example, the brewers in Norway had either been unemployed or had been engaged in anything else today if it had not been for this government. The sailors would have been working with something else or not had a job if it hadn't been for this government. Many plants in the field of energy would not have been started if it had not been for this government. The research budgets would have been lower if it hadn't been for this government, which is giving priority to using the billions of tax dollars that the previous government had, and that they promised to distribute, to build society. I note that the citizens in opposition claim that it is the tax laws that they adopted, which make it good for Norwegian business. No, it's completely wrong. The introduction by the Workers' Party of the rule of action, with an inflation target, together with an international high economic cycle, is the reason why Norway is doing well. So it's the rule of action The party of progress in government with the Right – who has now stopped being a calculator party, they say – will give on the boat. As a result, the export industry in particular will lose out in competition with other countries, and this will lead to a return to unemployment. I just want to remind you that when Bondevik sat with the government, it also went well in Norway. But we took over 100 000 unemployed. Now we see that the arrows are still going down. Then we spend money to get those who have trouble getting into the labour market. And then we make sure that once they get into the labour market, they have a law that ensures them both a living wage and a steady job to go to the next day.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1515	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1519	If some in this room today have taken me to be one of those who boasts of the red-green government, it's a perfectly correct observation. To the representative of Kielland Asmyhr: Yes, in the government parties we lack self-confidence in these days. Because there's no doubt that we have a business that goes down. The order books are full. Perhaps the biggest challenge today is lack of professionals, lack of skilled labour. Today I registered such a notice from my own country. ‘Has order, lacks people’, establishes NRK Telemark. I've seen more of these look-ups in the last year. This is serious, because such a situation creates unnatural wage and cost growth for businesses. We need to encourage young people to take vocational training, and companies need to focus very strongly on the problem of absenteeism. The representative Torbjørn Hansen asserted in his speech that the Government does not have a private ownership policy, and the representative Kongshaug followed up by saying that the Government does not bet on founders and founders. There are errors. I would recommend these representatives to read the entire budget and not just parts of it. The focus on innovation and innovation is on this very area. I can name Innovation Norway. They're going to have $2.5 billion next year, and they're going to have to continue with the low-risk loan mortgage of $1.5 billion. Through the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and through the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, SIVA receives a budget of nearly 100 million. kr. We set up a maritime strategy with 252 million. kr, which is an increase of 100 million. kr. An action plan for female entrepreneurship is coming soon, and we propose that self-employed persons be entitled to maternity and parental leave. I used to talk about the travel strategy. I can refer to Altin etc. The list is long. Unfortunately, I don't have time to go into the individual points right now. But these are good measures for good value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1530	Norway is going well. This makes it easy for you to get speed blind. Business policy today determines whether it will work well in the future. It's business policy yesterday that has led us to where we are today. There's a lot one could talk about -- ownership, agriculture, competition policy -- but today I was going to stick to two things, and that's change and research. Conversion should not be the end of anything good, it should be the beginning of something better. But it definitely places great and heavy burdens on the individual community at times. Then the big community can play a role. When the representative Ryan says something like where it boils, you can stay away, where there is a need, you have to participate, it seems to me that the government has just demonstrated how difficult it is in practice. You whitewash some lighthouses, while you forget many others. The West boils and soaks of offensive opportunities, while the hinterland is struggling. In Årdal one was able to place a door factory, while in the interior one only shows a cold shoulder when corner stone farms falter. Ringing things may not be as hot as Ardal, and Kährs Parkett may not be as symbolic as Årdal's melting plant. In the valley of Årdal, small businesses around the country were overcompensated. In Ringsacht, it was not interesting to make a never-ending contribution to a skills enhancement package even to those who are now looking for a job. Active enterprise policies can, as I see it, be renamed the blanking of some red-green display windows. So for research. While this debate is under way, the Norwegian Industry R & D and Innovation Report came in by e-mail. It shows that R & D activity is now weakening, and that the interest in SkattenFUNN is weakened after the intensification. From a period of strong growth in nutrient research under the previous government, stagnation has now taken place. It's serious. It's in good times you have muscles and powers to position yourself for the future, but then you don't have to become speed blind. This government is moving away from the national research objectives. The 3 p.m. target is misplaced, and the budgets speak their clear language – there is no ambition to achieve the target. In addition, when you tighten up the tools to reach business, yes, this is bad. The right has maintained the goal and ambition. We want significantly more funding for research in general and for user-driven research in particular, we want to reverse the tax FUNN constraints and, at the same time, strengthen the attractiveness of the scheme. For a country to be at the top of the knowledge society of the future, that is the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1543	Food surveillance has an important role to play. I'm glad the grep council has done to get streamlined more of the four supervisors that were before. Things have to go on, and it takes time, but the focus on guides and controls up towards further processing and serving places should be in the first place. At least that's what I'm hearing when I'm listening to what people say they're missing. Farmers have, after all, quite often visited the veterinarian, who can both see and report. The Food Authority, which has been mentioned quite a bit in the budget setting, received a cut of 100 million. kr in the context of the 2003 decision – the merger of the four supervisory bodies would bring administrative cost gains. However, I find reason to remember that the special conversion exercise has been given to me. 427.5 million. kr is the price label. We are all waiting for the smile system to come in place, as a quality stamp in good serving places where everything is approved. So to a new chapter in this year's budget. The horse industry has been asking for several years to enter a VAT and tax regime. Now, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture have work to do to legitimize an industry that asked for it. It's not a everyday meal, but it's a pleasure. Elles, we've had many rounds of surgical castration of piglets working on this year's budgeting. It's about the taste of the robberies of the male pig. Norway has spent a lot of money researching, but has not succeeded in getting it done so far. I hope that the EU will succeed in its project, and that we will then be able to use the expected vaccine they now have during testing. So a few words about reindeer. There is a new law that must provide better tools for the reindeer management. We still have overgrazing on parts of Finnmark. The carcass weight is much higher in other parts of the country where the reindeer and reindeer numbers are relative to each other. I also joined the Business Committee in 1993-1997. I have a sense that the problems are exactly the same. Now I expect things to start happening. The tool has given them, decisions have to be made, and real integer control needs to be cut. The working party takes the farmer's work and production seriously. We have seen down an agricultural policy selection with a great deal of lack. We now see that trust in the Workers' Party's policy focuses on those who live on primary production, but also on food businesses' conditions into a new era. It also guarantees a future before Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1558	As we heard previous speakers refer to, the nutrition committee has spent a lot of time this fall on the issue of the castration of piglets. That is why I want to draw attention to another but neglected issue, namely the development of the horse industry in Norway — and this may well be seen as a greeting at home. I have to admit that my contact with the horse industry has largely limited myself to a few rare visits to Jarlsberg Travbane – without any particular financial gain, I have to confess. But I have come to realize that the horse industry, which itself has been interested in its whitewashing, can be of great importance. I am therefore very pleased that the Government is now proposing that ‘horseholding with reasonable prospects for economic profit’, as it says, should now be treated as a second industry in the tax and tax context. The horse industry has worked to do this without getting through before now. I don't know if the champagne corks are now smacking on the country's traversing and galloping tracks, but the joy is at least great in the industry, which has a very large growth potential, and which already contributes strongly to increasing the diversity of Norwegian agriculture, not least in my own county, Westfold. Today there are 4,500 full-time jobs in the horse industry. The turnover in the professional sport runs to NOK 3 billion, and in addition, 1 billion goes into other parts of the horse industry. Norway is following Sweden in this area, and there is now a white and well-regulated industry, with good district work places, not least for women. It also includes related establishments, such as feed production, veterinary services, transport and equipment production. I welcome the horse industry as an important part of Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1573	Our oil and gas-powered economy will exist for a short period of time in Norwegian history. Even now, oil production is falling more than budgeted, despite excessive lead activity. It's a clear warning. However, renewable natural resources are our long-term strength. As a nation, we have unique opportunities – we have fish, timber, hydropower, huge grasslands and clean water. As citizens, we are privileged internationally. One of our main competitive advantages in manufacturing has been – and must be – the amount and price of energy. As a country, we have the financial capacity to reduce climate emissions per year. production of the finished product unit and reduction of energy consumption per unit. finished product unit, an ability that lands around us can only envy us. If we modernise Norway through new production equipment and new communications, we can do an exemplary job according to our tradition, but it will cost. If this challenge is taken seriously, both real income development and real wages for us as individuals will be lower than what will result in 2007. However, from an international and national point of view of consumption, there must be a proper prioritisation. More people have to dry out saying that we need to invest for the future in order to achieve more energy-efficient production. Long-term investment and less private consumption growth will cost in the short term. In the long term, this will be absolutely necessary. The centre party is a strong supporter of an active industrial policy – both through general measures and through specific measures for the situation of particular industries – and by ensuring that we receive a krone price that does not price us out internationally. The woodworking industry has a proud tradition. We have received international recognition for our production. The key now for framework conditions is power management contracts. I would say this: energy must be a competitive factor and a competitive advantage for Norwegian production also in the future. If we do not maintain it, it will not be possible to further develop industry by industry – when we have a number of disadvantages in terms of distance from markets, stricter environmental requirements and higher cost levels of production elsewhere. Therefore, the Centre Party is in favour of power-processing contracts for the woodworking industry, which will contribute to profitable and forward-looking wood processing in Norway. I had expected that one in this debate on industrial policy would have received a clear response from the largest opposition party, the Progress Party, that they would be involved in power-processing contracts, so that we would have a profitable and forward-looking woodworking industry in Norway. I repeat the question: what does the Progress Party think about the key role that electricity plays in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1590	It is tempting to note that the representative Lundtägen could have asked many of his questions directly to his own government, instead of asking them to the opposition, but I will leave it. I asked for the floor because I have become aware that proposal No. 25, from Right and Left - it's on page 71 of the setting - is frame dependent. Therefore, according to the Storting Rules of Procedure, it cannot be dealt with. I will therefore not address this proposal today, but will refer to the financial position, where this proposal has also been discussed. But this does not change the reality of the matter, which is that the Right wants to contribute to the growth of the aquaculture industry, both by increasing production potential per year. concession and by granting new concessions. It is not necessary for Norway to have special special production constraints based on a political desire for regulation, rather than to contribute to the continued growth of this important industry on our coast. I think it is striking that the Government is passive in terms of the aquaculture industry, and primarily works to introduce new taxes for this industry. This is recognised from other areas of business policy. I also note that Rolf Terje Klungland was also involved in this debate. To comment on everything Klungland said will be a long canvas to bleach. But when he claims that this government is contributing to a higher research effort than the alternative would have done, it shows that he is probably living in a slightly different political world than the one I know from the budgetary positions that we are dealing with in Stortinget. So Sigvald Upbeøen Hansen said that I thought that this government did not have a policy of national ownership. On the contrary, I would say that this government has a quite active and targeted policy – to weaken private Norwegian ownership. We see this from the financial situation, where the government parties are constantly increasing the wealth tax, which aims to reduce private Norwegian ownership in Norwegian business, and which strengthens foreign ownership and state ownership. I think that is a bad policy. They should also have contributed to Norwegian companies being owned by Norwegians. I think that would be good for the value creation in a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1603	Some have had articles about the horse industry. I find that interesting – as the owner of a horse. I can only add that you own a horse, you get pressure in the economy – not in the state, but at least in the personal. So it's a challenge. I will comment on some of the comments I have heard today, and will start with the May 1 speech from Rolf Terje Klungland. It was quite interesting. He pointed out the importance of having an active industrial policy and mentioned a number of petroleum fields that have been developed. Among other things, he mentioned: The Snow White field. Had the matter of the Snow White field been dealt with in this room today, there had been no expansion. The whole center party was against the Snow White extension. The SV was against – they linked to and even stuck up there – and half of the Workers' Party was against. That is the reality. If the matter had been dealt with today, it would not have been given a majority. When it comes to preserving Norwegian seafarers, I just have to remind the representative of Klungland that they have made sure that the shipping industry receives a tax with retroactive effect which means that they have to pay approx. $20 billion. It is a form of active industrial policy. Then I miss the representative Breck on the speaker's chair. In the election campaign he was very clear on and criticised the government for not finding a solution to the NOx problem. I want to quote from the Fisherman on August 27th. There Lars Peder Breck says: ‘For us, this is about removing the uncertainty of business, and by reaching an environmental agreement, we can pursue a real and good environmental policy, while at the same time having a good industrial policy. We give the government clear notice to clarify the NOx case now." It must mean that he may have talked to himself. I think it's quite amazing that he doesn't go up on this pulpit and correct the same criticism of the government now, because the environmental agreement is not in place. It's not the government's will to find a solution to that. In an election campaign, the Centre Party can accept the gift of fear and criticise its own government, but one will not stand for it in a debate in the Stortinget. I expect the representative Breck to go up to the pulpit now and clarify what is the views of the Central Party in this matter – in this Chamber – whether that is what he said in the election campaign, or whether it is not. Double communication from Lars Peder Breck has given me enough of this in terms of the NOx fee!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1628	In my previous post I took up energy, energy prices and electricity prices. The representative Torbjørn Hansen said that instead of responding to the challenges, I should rather criticize my own government. To that I can say to the Right Party that the two nutritious councils present here in the Chamber today, who have spoken, have expressed themselves quite in line with what I said – a desire to use energy and power in such a way that it will contribute to the competitive advantage that we have had and that we have, we shall continue. The question remains open: what does the Party Right mean? And what does the Progress Party think, which since then at the representative Korsberg had the opportunity to answer the question of whether the Progress Party will contribute to power-processing contracts for wood processing that ensure forward-looking wood processing in Norway? It is one of the hottest policy issues that affects a number of communities and has consequences for Norway’s appearance. So the two largest opposition parties still choose not to answer their own policy. Agricultural issues have also been raised. Since we have a national food market through our import protection, we also have the opportunity to pursue a national policy to ensure basic national objectives in terms of food security and the way food is produced. If the Progress Party had got its policy through, there would be no national market. At that time, there was no opportunity to have objectives other than those possible in the international market. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr said it was positive that I went in to use the price mechanism. It's totally seaworthy. I've always done that. The price mechanism in our mixed economy is the most important instrument for achieving the objectives we have, and not least the objective of producing enough food. If output in this market is too low, the price has to be increased in order to increase production. But it remains to be answered by the Progress Party whether they will use the price in such a way that when there is under-covering food production in Norway, they will increase prices in the agricultural market, as they say they will do in all other markets, or whether one has such ideological barriers that since it is agriculture, one should not allow increased prices, in the same way as one does not allow for reduced taxes, as I have mentioned in previous posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1639	I would like to comment on what the representative Torbjørn Hansen said about the growth of the farming industry. The thing is, in recent years, growth has indicated that we are going to reach the production ceiling for the maximum authorised biomass, MTB, in 2009 or 2010, so that, within today’s production boundary, production can continue to increase. The government has said that we should facilitate growth and start-ups. That is why we are going to conduct a new round of salmon concessions in 2009. The number of permits, geographical breakdown and criteria shall be clarified during 2008. From 2010, we aim for annual concession awards, adapted to the growth of the market. However, unlike the Right, the Government is not ready today to conclude on how much volume it will be in 2009 and how much each concession will cost. We're going to spend a little bit more time on that. The industry should also be involved and make representations. I would also like to comment on the post of the representative of Korsberg. Now, I'm sure the representative Breck is able to defend what he has said in relation to NOx. But Øyvind Korsberg made accusations of double communication, and that is a word it is relevant to use also in relation to the comments of the Progress Party on the draft budget. In the last period, the Progress Party took the view that there should be no restrictions on structural policy — no length limits, no quota ceilings, no geographical restrictions. A full release was requested for all parts of the coastal fleet. If the Advance Party had been impressed by its vision, the coastal fleet would have been a beautiful memory today, including the fleet between 11 and 15 meters. In the structural debate that we had in Stortinget in ours, the Progress Party never made it quite clear whether they were in favour of or against a structural arrangement for the group between 11 and 15 meters. They wanted more investigation, i.e. more bureaucracy – a party opposed to bureaucracy and administration. In the comments of the Progress Party in the budgetary position, the Progress Party initially says that the liberalisation of the fishing industry is too slow and that it is considered unfortunate to mix fisheries policy with regional policy considerations. At the same time, however, the structural arrangements will be applied to the group between 11 and 15 metres, precisely in the interests of fisheries-dependent communities – and these are territorial policy considerations. When you turn to the setting, the Progress Party says quite different things from side to side in its comments, so I would encourage the representative Korsberg to go on his own and study the concept of double communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1655	I noticed that the representative Øyvind Korsberg obviously wanted to speed up the debate with his post, in which he called for my position on the NOx fee. He said that there was only comment in the election campaign, that there was no talk about it in the hall here. He said it was "the gift of luck" and "double communication". There were strong concepts that were used about my views and my opinions in this regard. At first I would like to say that I am a little surprised that Øyvind Korsberg makes statements that it has not been mentioned in the room here. Then he could certainly not have been present as I kept my post earlier today. There I said clearly – and I'll refer it again: ‘I expect the negotiations that are now in the final phase to lead to the establishment of an environmental obligatory agreement with the State, in order to reduce NOx emissions. Negotiations have taken too long – too long.’ It is important that they are now completed quickly, both in order to clarify the business environment and to ensure the legitimacy of the scheme. I am convinced that we are finding solutions through the negotiations that are taking place. The negotiations have been difficult, but they will lead to results, I am quite convinced of that. So the fact that I have not commented on this here in the Chamber, that I have not mentioned it, is – let's say that way – the error of the representative of Korsberg. Then I also want to mention a few other elements that are important. The representative Tord Lien came into the forest and the forest value chain in connection with the signals we have now received from Norwegian Forest about changes in the structure they come with. I just want to stress that for the Center Party it's obvious that we can't accept that we're removing the industrial processing of forest in the future. This value chain, which is very important, and which I also understood Mr Lien's agreement, was very important both in Trondelag and in the East, where there are large forest resources, must be secured in the future. That means that we have to make sure that we have framework conditions that work well enough. But then the industry must also act fairly. The point is that one cannot say on the one hand, as in 1997, that they have obtained power contracts that guarantee future industry, for the next time – as they have recently done – to wind up their purpose and say that they want to sell this power internationally, because there is no profitability in Norwegian production. There has to be a connection on the part of industry as well. We're going to work to facilitate good framework conditions; we're going to work to facilitate a power regime that works well for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1678	Sigvald Uppøen Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1682	I cannot leave the intervention of the representative, Mr Gundersen, undisputed, because promises of the Ministry of Industry and Trade's budget for R & D are over DKK 1.8 billion. That's an increase of 5 pst. from the present year. Since 2005, there has been an increase of 520 million. kr in relation to the Børge Brende's time in government, and there is an increase of 37.5 pst. since 2005. So a little bit about Korsberg and the kicks that he's given about the riding tax. So now the government has put in place a new competitive tax regime based on a European model, and then it's the tax credit, well, but with low terms of calculation and payment. He is determined on the basis of book values, he is to be settled over ten years, without interest burden, and besides, he can allocate one third of the tax credit to an environmental fund. The party of progress is the only party that asks questions at Grundlova § 97. They did that in the financial debate. I wonder what makes the Progress Party qualified to have such a point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1691	I have to start raising a little bit. Those things the Council of State says at the very end that it is not until 2009 or 2010 that the maximum permitted biomass is Norway as a whole. Many single-farmers, the most efficient breeders, farmers in the North-West and in Trøndelag, are already standing at this ceiling today. What the Progress Party wants to do is reward those who are most effective, but it doesn't want the Government. I suspect that the government here wants to increase the production costs, so that the minimum price issue does not come back again. In view of that, I think what the Council of State said about Edinburgh – that we have now kind of taken a break at them in the courtroom, so now we don't need a good dialogue – wasn't used to hearing from the Workers' Party. I am of the opinion that one of the worst foreign policy decisions ever taken was to withdraw the Consulate General and the formal representation in Scotland. That's what they say. I'm happy with the things the Council of State says about strengthening the Food Authority. We are heavily dependent on having a serious relationship with the Russian authorities and also access to Russian markets – in addition to the European and Asian ones – to sell our fish. The representative, Lundtigen, is talking about the tri-processing industry. He also talks about what he now calls power-processing contracts. Lundtägen should have realised that the Progress Party has co-operated with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in this Chamber and asked for a basis on how these contracts can be implemented, how we can obtain Norwegian industry's cheap power. It's not like the spring, summer and autumn of 2005 party of progress ran around Norway and said that this is "funny", excused the expression, and that we have a large room for action to put in place an industrial power regime. The progress party has always said that it's an important goal to get it in place, but we've never said that it's easy. All of the parties that are currently in government have said that it is very easy to put in place an industrial power regime, yet it has not come. What has the representative Lundtegen contributed? We just had an energy and environmental debate in this room, and there were ambitions totally absent from the Government. The only point of light in relation to new power generation is that after two years one finally turns in relation to green certificates – all honor to the Government for it. It's a shame it took two and a half years. Green certificates will give us more power into the market. Adequate market power is the key prerequisite for providing cheap power to industry. I think everyone knows – also Per Olaf Lundtägen, and at least the Progress Party and I know it – what it takes to save the paper industry in Norway and the industry in Central Norway. There is only one thing: to build a gas power plant, like two, either on the Tent Goods or in the Forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1712	The President will point out, since we have youth in the gallery, that from this pulpit does not use force expression. Torbjørn Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1717	I think it is quite amazing that the representative Lundtigen is very pleased with the Government on the industrial power problem. There he is probably a lonely swallow in Norway. Neither employees nor those who have believed in the promises made by the company are particularly satisfied with what the government has provided. The reason is that the creation of subsidised power contracts is contrary to the obligations of the EEA Agreement in relation to State aid law. All three government parties knew that long before the 2005 election campaign. Nevertheless, there were clean tours in Norwegian towns to convince the industrial workers that if a red-green government came, they would provide cheap power and secure jobs. Many perceived it as promising promises that were trusted. Many of these people have lost their jobs because the government didn't deliver what they promised. I think we should acknowledge here that we are living with an EEA agreement that has been supported by all three government parties, and therefore the terms are given as they stand in it. Otherwise, I think the government parties would have cheated on being a little more sober when it comes to referring implemented promises of an active industrial policy, because it has been little of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1724	Lars Peder Breck has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1727	First to the aquaculture industry: the party of progress, by the representative Tord Lien, is calling for a change in MTB, i.e. the restriction on the environmental framework for production. The Minister for Fisheries has said that new concessions should be awarded as a matter of course. We support this last very strongly. However, the point of being able to distribute new concessions to meet market demand is that we can then help secure small and medium-sized marine farms. An increase in MTB will now be a redistribution in favour of the largest and most productive companies. There, in principle, we disagree with the Advancement Party. So at food prices: we record that neither the Advance Party nor the Right wants to increase the prices of the farmer, to the farmer. We record that they will not give any signals in this regard. It's okay to take with you for those who live off this industry. At the same time, we feel that these two parties are attacking the concluded agricultural agreement with significant cuts. The consequences of their policies will clearly be a frenzy of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1734	I just had to take the floor to answer the Upbeøen Hansen. The aim of the research is 1 pst. on public and 2 pst. on the private. When the Norwegian industry’s R & D report, which is just presented, is so clear that the government is not using tools that hit the business world, it must be possible to take it on board. The tightening up of the SkatteFUNN system and the partial overarching of the priorities of the Norwegian Research Council, the failure to meet business or the ability to release resources in business. It's a pretty serious situation, all the time we have the goal we have. The second is that the government uses a strong GDP growth, that there is a greater freedom than perhaps some government has had in the past, to explain why it is not possible to achieve the objective of research efforts. It is a rather special situation that strong growth and increased freedom of action make it impossible to achieve the objectives. A small visit also to agriculture, as there is a lot of discussion: neither in the suspension nor in the debate, forest industry has been much affected, except by the representative Lundtägen at the end. The whole of agriculture is caught up in regulations that the assembly should soon start thinking about not actually achieving a single goal. In the case of forestry, the situation is even worse. It is a competitive industry that is locked within some national regulations that are directly counterproductive in terms of developing competitiveness. Here are some basic assumptions that have to be given. This with industrial power was also in the presence of the representative Hansen – that there were others who promised quite a lot in a campaign two years ago. It's probably part of the forest industry now that starts to ask if you won't see anything about it soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1745	The representative Tord Lien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1748	The debate is drawing to an end, but I want to say something about what Lars Peder Breck said in his last post. Some of what he said was that maximum permissible biomass depends on environmental conditions, and that alone. That's a positive error. Is it so that Lars Peder Breck assumes that the environment in North Norway is less important to take care of than the environment in Trøndelag and southwards? The maximum permitted biomass in North Norway is above what we propose it should be in South Norway. In North Norway it is 1,050 tonnes, and in South Norway it is 780 tonnes. I do not see that the environment is an obstacle to the adoption of our proposal today. Then he says one more thing that is positively wrong – that our proposal will help the large farms. No, that's not right. Our proposal will primarily help the most effective. The most effective breeders are mostly the small ones. Again, the district politician Lars Peder Breck meets himself at the door of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1757	It was the post from the representative Lundtegen about industrial power that made this a little interesting for me. It is interesting that he places so much responsibility on the Progress Party, which does not have a position in government, for this to be fulfilled. Is there a bad conscience on his own behalf that makes him try to shift responsibility to others? When you see what the Centre Party has been doing, not just the Center Party, but a combined red-green government both in opposition and in position, you have to ask whether the Centre Party is not about to begin fulfilling its own promises. If you look at the position taken when the Energy and Environment Committee last considered the industrial power regime, you will see that both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV made a very clear promise that there was no formal problem with the EEA Agreement or anything else that made this not a reality. It was only a lack of political will from the then Bondevik government. That's all it was all about. If you just got a government change, this would be a reality. The current Prime Minister’s candidate Jens Stoltenberg even traveled to Haugesund at an industrial and energy conference in August 2005 and promised cheap power to the industry, if only a government change. So things have happened since that. We've had the State Council of Enoxen, who promised an industrial power regime in front of every festival. It was to be in place for Christmas, it was to be Easter, and it was to come to Pentecost. It was to come to next Christmas, and it was to come to the next Easter. The last time it was promised, it would have been revised. Now we have heard that the last thing that has been promised is that it will come in the revised budget for 2008. I'm not breathing while I'm waiting, it can have health consequences, but it's still going to be pretty interesting to see if there's anything coming. In this regard, there has been a demonstration outside the Stortinget, where Enoxen and the current Minister of Economic Affairs, Andersen, promised that this would be put into place quite quickly. The only little monkey, which makes me not going to shoot at the Progress Party if I was a central party representative, but rather looking at my own government, is that Prime Minister Stoltenberg – the same as the Prime Minister’s candidate when he was in Haugesund – was at the Stortinget on 23 May in the Question Time and said quite clearly, and it is found in the minutes that he had never promised cheap power to the industry. It was not possible to impose an obligation on Statkraft to sell at anything below market price. The only thing he had promised was that the industry would be able to buy electricity at a lower price than households could. But in this way there is already an industrial power regime, because today's legislation is quite possible. I believe that virtually all industrial companies buy the power cheaper than what I do, and I buy it at a relatively low price. I challenge the Center Party here to clarify who is actually in charge and the government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1770	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1774	I record after this debate, and in so far also after the financial debate, that the Government does not take criticism of what has happened to the tax on the shipping industry. No one has criticised the Government for the new tax regime for shipping companies, but it is the path towards the new tax regime that hurts the industry and makes the Government have no overall policy for this industry. When State Councillor Andersen uses former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss as a witness of truth for this, I would say that he puts the list low. For there is probably no more hostile man to the shipping industry than former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss. I would recommend the State Council, Andersen, to add the list much higher than what he has expressed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1781	The representative Torbjørn Hansen from the Right was up here earlier and said that we probably didn't live in the same political world. No, I am very pleased and pleased that we do not, because we are pursuing an active industrial policy unlike those in the political world in which he is in. I would like to make some comments in relation to what is going on in industry. When Per Olaf Lundtigen asked the Progress Party what they wanted to do in the future, it's because you don't have to ask the Right Party, the Left Party or the Christian People's Party, because those parties have said that giving industry power at competitive prices is a little flexible and less targeted. That's why they wouldn't. So those who are now in government said that yes, we're going to do the best we can, so that the industry gets power at competitive prices. In particular, the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen surprises me and disappoints me when, as an energy politician, he goes up on the platform here and talks about cheap power – no, the government parties have never said that, subsidized power – no, the government parties have never said that, and it was simple – no, the government parties have never said that. It has been claimed by the Progress Party, the Right Party and the other parties. What we have said is that we should provide an industrial power regime with competitive prices, which can enable us to develop industry in Norway. There is a great difference between political rhetoric and political action. We work every day to find solutions to keep the industry here in Norway. In a government in which the Progress Party is to participate, it is therefore important for any voters to know whether the Progress Party is on the historical side they have been in, or whether they are going to go for what the other possible government parties stand for, that is, that industry is not going to gain power. And then I have to pay a little visit to the representative of Korsberg, because he said that if the case of the Snow White extension had come today, it would never have been adopted. No, one could probably dream away. If we had now been in 1974, we wouldn't have had any progress party either, but one can't build politics on it. We can historically point to policy outcomes in the field of business that have created the society we have today. The party of progress has been formed to counter it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1790	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1793	This applies to wood processing. The centre party is positive for power-processing contracts that contribute to a profitable and forward-looking wood processing in Norway. That's the Central Party's position. That is a modest attitude, but the modest attitude cannot therefore be adopted by the Right and the Advance Party here. I hope that those who are in the industry remember this and say from, because it is absolutely essential that the Progress Party and the Right join in to get results. In the case of agricultural policy and self-employed farmers, this is the same as the case. The Right Party and the Advance Party are well aware of their ideology with the market mechanism and will use it: when the supply of goods is not sufficient, prices will rise, and when the supply is too large, prices will fall. The two parties will not do so for the agricultural industry. It's clarifying. I think this needs a further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1804	I don't belong to those who platter the debates for a long time, but it would be a very special experience to sit and listen to the representatives of the government when they try to talk away from the strong promises they gave in the election campaign for a new industrial power regime. I'm sure the longest in the field, Lundteigen and Klungland have gone. But it is not possible to talk away from the fact that representatives from the government party in the election campaign were very clear that there was only a lack of will here that meant that one did not get a new industrial power regime in place. If they only came to power, this would be all right. It was a piece of cake. Larger belly pads have not happened in recent times, and belly pads can hurt! It's obvious that this hurts. We get it. There are two things that are quite serious. The only thing is that many of the current government parties that were so clear in the election campaign that this was going to be done well, I suspect I would already talk to better people. The second is that Klungland today in the hall is claiming that we in the Christian People's Party were not occupied with competitive power prices for the industry as a whole. It's a direct false statement. Here we are forced to react, because if Klungland looks at history, he will see that the Bondevik II government was working on a new industrial power regime. It can be documented, and that was also the discussion in the election campaign. We're going to have sharp debates, but I'm asking that we stick to what's true. Debates will then be better and sharper.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1813	Some representatives should be happy that there is not a sensor here with some historical facts that can correct what is being said, because then there are some who would have deleted. The representative Klungland says they're working as well as they're able to set up an industrial power regime. Yes, the results so far show that they're not very capable. They talk about the difference between rhetoric and action. Yes, it is obvious who has had the rhetoric here, because they have not shown anything that can confirm the power of action. Then they say they work on it every day. Yes, it's a saying: Don't tell me how much you work, but tell me what you get done. The representative of Klungland has deleted all of them. Nor will the representative Klungland be aware that Prime Minister candidate Stoltenberg was in Haugesund in August 2005 and promised cheap power to the industry. He can try to explain it as much as he likes, but it's quick to do a search in various newspapers, both on paper and online, and you'll find that what's being said from this pulpit is now confirmed. Then he can deny it, because he doesn't like the fact that they can't deliver. But let's look at the force side. What has happened under the red-green government? Power prices have gone pretty much one way, and it's up. The electricity prices have averaged approx. 20 cents higher than they were when the government took over. So the government was lucky now this summer, with low power prices due to a lot of rain, but there's nothing in the fundamental market balance that suggests that the government has done anything to improve the situation. What is needed now is a new force project. It is important to improve the power balance, so that market prices are pushed down. The government can show that everything that tastes of renewable energy has been put on ice because, through an internal dispute, it was not possible to obtain a certificate market with Sweden. We were going to come up with our own bureaucratic solution. Now we see that the government has luckily turned around, and that's what they should be commended for. They should also have Ros for what they did on Mongstad, where they finely put aside the Soria Moria declaration requiring cleaning from day one and allowed Mongstad to build gas power plants as quickly as possible. That's good. The problem is that in all other areas of gas power, there is a happy root, where the industry does not know what framework conditions they have to deal with. I mention the December conference that took place in central Norway right now, where the LO leader – the main sponsor of the red-green government – said that the only thing that can solve the power situation in central Norway is gas power. And when the government at the same time says that gas power plants in central Norway should have CO2 cleaning at start-up, everyone knows that there will be no gas power plants in central Norway for the next five to ten years. Then the power situation there is equally hopeless. I refer to the coal-fired power plant project at Husnes, which has now been launched, where Sargas has a CO2 clean-up solution. And when sarges try to talk about this with the government, they meet a cold shoulder. So this government, which is to bet on CO2 cleaning more than others, will not talk about the concrete projects – unless the government itself has initiated them. We also saw that in Hammerfest, where Hammerfest Energie wants CO2-purified gas power plants with Sargas' technology. They received a refusal from the NVE in this case. Come with an industrial power regime and we'll take a positive view of it, but we'll have to see the content first.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1840	The representative Rolf Terje Klungland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1843	Just two clarifications. I did not say in my previous post that Bondevik did not work with the power regime, as he did after he had received a decision from this room that instructed the government to do so. The alternative would have been to leave. But the result of that work was, which can be documented, that the government parties thought it was not very flexible and not very targeted, and they advised us not to go into such an arrangement. Then I would like to say to the Progress Party that records in terms of electricity prices, we would have supported the previous government. I remember that very well, it was in 2003. We will continue to work to achieve the objective we have set in relation to industry and to get them to power at competitive prices. If the Progress Party believes it to be cheap, it is a serious sign of policy. We want competitive prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1854	The representative Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1857	I want to give the representative Klungland two challenges, firstly to give a correct history description, and, secondly, to play a strong role in his party delivering what they promised in the election campaign. Too many, very many, have noticed that they have not done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1862	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1866	I would like to remind the representative of Klungland that there is a record of what is being said here. What we say will actually be able to be recovered later, and one will be held responsible for it in future debates. However, let me remind you of the power price and the power situation in 2002/2003. It was one party that was the faithful supporting party to the government in energy policy, and it was the Workers' Party. When we dealt with the Worm Lange case, there were two parties that pointed out the power situation in Middle Norway, and it was SV, who for a fact would not have gas power plants, and the Progress Party, who wanted gas power plants. The Labour Party, Right, Christian People's Party, Left and Center parties did not mention the power situation in Middle Norway in one word. It shows irresponsibility on the force side. And when talking about framework conditions for the powerful industry, it is not enough just to refer to the industrial power regime that has never come, but one must also include government policy with the introduction of fuel oil tax, climate quota law and a rebound regime that refuses industry to be able to own power plants in the future. It shows who does not really care about the framework conditions for industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1875	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1878	I'm not going to add up to any long debate, but what made me speak was the criticism of the Progress Party by the Council of State Helga Pedersen. Next time, I encourage the Council of State to sign up earlier on the list of speakers, so that the parties, and the signatories, have a chance to give back their answers. So when the government criticises the Advance Party that we would structure fleet groups under 15 meters in the previous period, it was in the previous period. We're now dealing with the period we're in, and the party program we have now. And the Council of State said that if that policy had been implemented in the last period, the fleet would have been a beautiful memory. What is the outcome of the policy pursued by the Council of State today? Well, it's just that it's going to be a beautiful memory. That's why we want to make this consistent, so that we know the effects of what the government is doing. We want to have a dialogue with the industry. There is no desire on the part of the State Council, and she never shows up in contact meetings or in dialogue with the industry. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1885	I think it was a very useful clarification we got from the Progress Party here, because it was said that they actually had one structural policy in the previous enlargement period, and one structural policy in this process, unlike the Workers' Party, which has been pursuing the same structural policy all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1890	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1321]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1906	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1915	The size must finally be treated with St.prp. No 88 for 2006-2007 on the purchase by the State of shares in Aker Holding AS. Aker Holding has the sole purpose of owning 40.1 pst. of the shares in Aker Kværner, listed on the stock exchange and the largest Norwegian player in the oil and gas supply industry. Aker Holding must be owned 60 pst. by Aker, where Kjell Inge Smoke is the principal shareholder, 30 pst. by the State and 10 pst. by Swedish SAAB AB and Investor AB. The state thus owns 30 pst. in a company that owns 40.1 pst. in Aker Kværner, an indirect ownership of 12.03 p.m. With a commitment of ten years, this is, in other words, a passive, financial investment and not an active, strategic investment that the majority expresses in the position. The purchase agreement is subject to the agreement of the Storting. The Industry Committee notes that Aker Kværner is an important competence company, with 23 000 employees and 50 billion SEK in turnover in 30 countries. The company is one of Norway’s largest private employers and has many activities that are important to its community. However, the Committee also notes that industry is made up of many enterprises which are individually important in their communities and for those who work in these enterprises, but do not indicate that the State should buy into these enterprises. The State already has no direct ownership of Aker Kværner or Aker. This is the first purchase in many years where the state goes directly into a new company and a new industry at Oslo Børs. This is therefore a fundamentally interesting issue in business policy. The Committee is divided into the configuration. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, support the purchase, while the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left oppose the purchase. The majority will probably argue for their view. The minority, where the Progress Party is with a little bit here and there, gives expression to heavy counter-representations. Firstly, this requires the purchase of a fundamental discussion of whether to buy up in Norwegian companies in this kind of situation. It is not a unique individual case that a Norwegian owner will reduce its stockpiles. Aker Yards was sold out just before, without the state being informed. Should e.g. state have bought Aker Yards? It's a relevant question to ask here. There will be new similar situations. Should the state buy up in Norwegian Forest, if the ownership there is threatened? What about Orkla if the current main owner wants to sell and expresses that foreign friars are standing on the stairs? Here the state should have a clear and predictable position. The business community wants and needs to make a transition. It must also apply to ownership in business. The door of the Pension Fund should not be opened every time a trade union becomes anxious or a billionaire with good contacts picks up a phone. The state owns one third of the stock exchange. That, in my view, is more than enough. Neither the Government Parties nor the Advance Party shall indicate a principal clarification in relation to this type of purchase as a commercial policy instrument. This absence of a fundamental assessment gives the impression that this purchase is on impulse, or it may be in panic, after the Aker Yards sale, without a commercial policy analysis. The comments from the government parties state that central Norwegian environments of competence should be anchored and further developed in Norway and that the purchase contributes to this. At that time it could have been interesting also for the stock market to hear which other companies these representatives believe have central competence. Can't it be just Aker Kværner who has a central competence in Norwegian business? The purchase process and the purchase conditions are very special. The government buys 30 pst. by an unlisted limited liability company and enter into commitments to shareholders both on the management of the company and on the possibility of buying and selling shares. Nevertheless, the price is full exchange rate, as if the government had purchased 12.03 p.m. of the shares directly in Aker Kværn without any bonds. The Swedish buyers are used as a political alibi. But the SAAB and the Investor enter on completely different terms, with a put option and a sales obligation on the entire purchase. The trade of nearly NOK 5 billion is done without financial advisors and without a technical justification for the price in the proposition. This seems irresponsible. There's every reason to fear that the experts who have pointed out that the state may have paid too much, are actually right. The majority claim in the notes that the minority indicates that the State should have entered into the same terms as the Swedish buyers. In my opinion, this is an incomprehensible claim in the light of the comments we have in the setting. The right is a hot follower of Norwegian ownership, also in Aker Kværner, but we believe that this must be based more on private environments. When the Government justifies the purchase with weak ownership environments, it is not consistent that the Government increases the property tax at the same time. Nor do I ignore the fact that Norwegian owner-occupiers could add 5 billion kroner to the table if this was a good purchase. The government's ownership policy has been characterised by small and large errors. The State appears to be an unpredictable and unreliable owner and the stock exchange warns against government rebates. This in itself is a good enough reason to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1959	This case concerns the acquisition of 30 pst by the State. of the shares in Aker Holding AS. Aker Holding has the sole purpose of owning shares in Aker Kværner ASA. Aker Holding consists in addition to the state of Aker ASA and the Swedish owner environments SAAB AB and Investor AB. Altogether, Aker Holding controls 40.1 pst. of the shares in Aker Kværner, which gives the State negative control over the company. For government parties, government ownership is important to ensure national anchoring and long-term development of key companies in Norway. Aker Kværner is one of the largest private employers in the country with over 11,000 permanent employees and is a very important competence company in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of small and large industrial plants. Ensuring long-term industrial development, predictability and strategic ownership in Aker Kværner is an example of the government conducting an active industrial policy. This is a concrete follow-up to the objectives and strategies adopted earlier this year when we addressed the keynote on ownership — and again a follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration. There is an overall committee that supports the comments on national ownership and ensuring head office functions in Norway. There are few owner environments in Norway outside the country that are large enough to contribute to this in as large companies as Aker Kværner. It is important to create predictability and have a long-term perspective. This is precisely why it is good that the agreement ensures that Aker Kværner is developed and managed from Norway for at least 10 years to come. It is active and predictable industrial policy. Then it is that through the agreement that exists, a large private Swedish ownership environment has also been introduced. Swedish investors represent environments with long industrial experience and competence. This contributes to a mixed and balanced ownership. It could represent an advantage for the development of Aker Kværner as a business of competence, and perhaps contribute to strengthening Swedish-Norwegian business cooperation. The opposition is critical that external financial advisors have not been used in this process. In the case of share purchases, it is not defined as an investment project of the type requiring external financial advice. Although there is no one with the fasit at what is the right price, I am not concerned that the government has paid too much for its shares. That the opposition here chooses to listen to what individual actors in the public debate have said, is on their behalf. I have faith in the quality assurance prior to the contract, including: by means of legal advisers. This case clearly shows that there are major political and ideological differences between the present government parties and the former government parties. Where we see the value and benefit of an active ownership, there is distrust of all state ownership in the opposition's comments. However, it clarifies the differences and shows that the parties have different rates of ownership policy. It's okay that the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party are skeptical to state ownership. The ones about it. That being said, a little honesty should nevertheless be allowed to be expected. The argument that the representative of Hansen used at the end of his speech, I find it particularly difficult to say that I am familiar with it. The State is an important and professional owner, with many of the same objectives and expectations as other actors. The difference is that state ownership ensures anchoring, long-termity and predictability. I also thought that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party agreed that these three parameters were important to business. I will not avoid commenting on the position of the Progress Party in this matter. They are still surprised – this time positive. The Progress Party supports the proposal to buy shares in Aker Holding. That's good. Then they get to be in the same sling asking the Government to provide for a similar sale in other companies in which the government owns. Something else would be even more surprising. In addition to the somewhat surprising view of the Progress Party in this matter, there is another experience we can draw: this is another example of the disagreement on the civil side and the political distance between the Right and the Advance Party. This agreement contributes to a good industrial solution for Aker Kværner for the next ten years. The combination of capital and competences ensures that the company will continue to develop in the future as a leading company with Norwegian anchoring – to the delight and benefit of both society and the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1980	For the Progress Party, it is important to provide Norwegian jobs and, in particular, those companies with a high level of competence. We think it is important that Aker Kværner remains on Norwegian hands. This is a good basis for further development of the company, and it is also important for the petroleum sector. For us, it has been essential that there is no direct share relationship between the state and Aker Kværner. We've seen when the state has been the owner of other companies, that this government has not dealt with it in any good way. When someone is amazed at the Progress Party in this matter, I can't quite understand it. I would simply like to refer to our party programme, where it says in detail what we want with ownership in Norwegian business. What we're doing here is completely in line with what's in the party program, and also completely in line with what we did in dealing with ownership. Then, among other things, we proposed: a sale of State companies of approximately NOK 288 billion. That someone hasn't brought with them the policies of the Advance Party in this area, I just get to accept and maybe not be so amazed at. But it might be interesting to read our party program and see that in that way this is completely in line with it. What we're concerned about is that the state doesn't become too big an owner of Oslo Stock Exchange, either directly or indirectly. That is also why we are promoting the proposal we are making in this matter. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1989	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e1992	SV is very pleased with the Government in this matter. We are a party that wants the strongest state ownership possible. That's why we're glad you now have a government that actually estimates to increase state ownership, rather than what you saw earlier, when you had to get rid of state ownership – as we did in the previous period. I'm a little tired of all those trying to represent the state as a bad owner. In many ways, the state is an excellent owner. If you look at a part of the private companies and how they go, there's nothing to suggest that the state is a worse owner than the private ones. The state has been the main owner of Statoil and Hydro for many years. We can't say that there has been any disaster for the country. The state has owned Statkraft. The state has also been a very important owner of a company such as the United Kingdom. The Kongsberg Group, which, at a hearing held in the previous period, stated that the State had been a necessary and very good owner and that they had not completed the necessary conversion to Kongsberg without the State. So when the opposition is trying to present it as problematic that the state is the owner, it's a vision I'm totally incomprehensible to. Why is it important that the state is the owner? Well, the state should be the owner of some important companies, because they are either of strategic importance – we see that the purchase we have made now has strategic importance because the company manages large natural resources – or because they manage infrastructure. There are so fundamental pieces in Norwegian society that the state should be the owner, because it requires a dualistic approach. A dualistic approach means that you have two thoughts in your head at the same time. One is that you have to do a good job for the company, so that it makes money. The second is to think at the same time about the society you live in, which you have to develop, where there are a number of considerations to be taken care of. In these areas, it is important to have a state owner, who actually has both muscles and ambitions to take care of both these two considerations. So we are very pleased that the Government is now increasing state ownership and buying up in Aker Holding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2003	During the 2005 election campaign, the current government party went high and promised to change the course of ownership policy. When the Government presented its policy for the Storting in the ownership message after much more and more, the change in the course was difficult to see. The board would still take decisions in individual matters. Responsibility for ethics and societal responsibility, equality and integration was highlighted, and the importance of national control over natural resources and head office functions was little new. The management of the ownership message had a strong focus on distinguishing the country’s role as owner and the state’s role as authority operator. But it became clear that everything was not the same anyway. Especially individuals from the government party were very concerned that the state, for ideological reasons, would buy even more axles of Norwegian companies. Furthermore, ownership policy was more unpredictable and unstable in individual cases. The government proposes that the government purchase 30 pst. by Aker Holding AS. Right, Left and Christian People's Party are in the vote in agreement with the criticism of several aspects of the Government's proposal and its handling. Firstly, the purchase can create an unfortunate precedent. It must not be such that whenever a Norwegian owner wishes to sell in a company, he may threaten to sell abroad and thus expect the Government to use the petroleum fortune to secure Norwegian ownership. Secondly, a question can be asked about the conditions on which the state has entered Aker Holding AS. The State has paid the same as the SAAB and the Investor have paid in isolation, but SAAB and the Investor can – unlike the State – sell out before 10 years have passed, with guaranteed returns. I can't see that the government has provided a good professional basis for the price of the axes, or that satisfactory work has been done to verify this price. External financial advisors were also not used in connection with the purchase. According to Professor Thore Johnsen of the Norwegian School of Commerce, there is reason to believe that the price should have been 15-20 pst. lower than the Government's plan to pay. That is, the government will pay between 600 and 800 million. NOK too much. Thirdly, since the state only has 30 pst. of the axane in Aker Holding AS, while Aker ASA has 60 pst., it will be Aker ASA that has the industrial control in Aker Holding AS. Fourth, based on a general risk assessment, it is unfortunate that the Government is increasing its exposure to the petroleum sector further. A too strong exposure to individual sectors makes the common values managed by the Government on behalf of future generations vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations. Fifth, the State is already a dominant player on a Norwegian pedestal through the ownership of StatoilHydro. Moreover, the State is regulatory authority. When the State enters into direct ownership of the largest supplier company on the base, this could lead to unfortunate bonds that weaken the country's important role as regulator. It is also worth noting that Secretary-General Jan Borgen of Transparency International and corruption expert Erling Grimstad in the evening post on 25 June this year has expressed strong criticism of the government's behaviour. The Christian People's Party points to the setting that if the Government gets multiples to carry out the purchase, it is important that the government does not become a sleeping party in the holding company. It is important for business that the state behaves neatly in the stock market and that it is not made up of the impression that business is governed by political governance. It is serious when, in the light of the Government's ownership policy, the Stock Exchange Director also goes out and warns against the lower value of the axes in companies where the state is a big owner, so-called government discount. The Christian People's Party believes that the government's exercise of ownership policy over the last two years is not an argument to increase the state's dominance at Oslo Børs, and goes against the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2031	Today will be standing as a brand day for a very special form of economic contact, where the state pays one of Norway's richest men almost $5 billion to be able to sit on all sides of the table for ten years, without doing anything worthy of mention from or to. It may in itself be a rather interesting sight for us sitting on the outside, but for Norwegian business and Norwegian economy it is anything but good. The decisions taken today send out wrong signals in a number of important areas: The state’s role as legislator and monitorer of equal competition between economic operators is in reality impossible by the fact that Aker Kværner’s main customer is another state-dominated giant, StatoilHydro. In reality, through the sitting government and the heath of the LO, the state is being pressured into entering the owner's side in the light of threats of flagging out. It opens a door that invites Norwegian private owners to use their resources in large-scale lobbying, and we get a development where even more important decisions are made in the back rooms and not in an open and democratic process. Today's decision also violates key economic principles. In recent years, we have implemented significant reforms. Common to all is that there are some fixed sizes that are more important than short-term policy thinking, such as monetary policy inflation targets and the financial policy action rule. Here we have a government that, without external professional help, spends almost 5 billion dollars on a minority stake in a well-run company, which more economic experts think is hundreds of millions too much. Professor Guttorm Schjelderup has a very good and nuanced article in Today's Business July 4th this year on this matter. Among other things, he points out that the consideration of a balanced portfolio should indicate that the State reduced its exposure to oil and gas rather than increase it by buying shares in Aker. And then he asks some very relevant questions: Why were these shares more attractive than other shares? And isn't the pension fund performing the investment role in Norwegian business? What kind of analysis and experience is there that suggests that the State is better able to exercise long-term ownership than private investors? Why is long-term in general important, and especially in Aker? Is it to secure jobs, and then why exactly these? None of these questions have been answered in the setting we are dealing with today. The logic of the Government and government parties is that long-term ownership is the most important thing, and that only the state can guarantee such long-termity. With this kind of thinking, we're approaching regimes that I actually thought even the government parties are now taking a distance from. The only real reason for the government is to secure the workplaces. It does much better in my view and that of the Left by spending SEK 5 billion on research and education, predictable framework conditions, a tax system that stimulates investment in Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs, and reducing unnecessary bureaucracy and choosing forms rather than a gift package for Kjell Inge Smoke. In its investment in Aker Holding, the State still has almost no right to make important decisions in Aker Kværner. Kjell Inge Smoke can still sell parts of the business to them Kjell Bjørndalen was so afraid: some unknown either Norwegian or foreign investors. Then comes all the issues that the representatives of the government parties, not least of the business committee, have been so concerned with in the last two years: the so-called active enterprise policy by interfering in the composition of the board, the size of dividends and the management salaries of companies where the government is a significant owner. None of these conditions really have any effect on the State through the ownership of Aker Holding. As I said earlier today, I am seriously concerned about the whole of the government's policy regarding ownership of Norwegian business. The dispersed private ownership is replaced by a significant concentration of power at the hand of the state, without there being a fundamental debate around it at all. This concerns me and the Left. That is why we are voting against the proposal to acquire 30 pst. of the shares in Aker Holding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2061	In the Soria Moria Declaration, we said that the Government will ‘ensure national ownership of key enterprises in the knowledge society’. Through the agreement that ensures Aker Kværner ASA long-term ownership and contributes to the national anchoring of the strong Norwegian environment, we show that the Government follows up the Soria Moria declaration. The petroleum-related supplier industry is an important industry in Norway. There are suppliers in all the counties of the country. More than 80,000 people are employed in the petroleum industry in Norway. Aker Kværner manages an important forward-looking knowledge and is a central part of this industry. The company is clearly the largest Norwegian-owned player in the supplier industry. Aker Kværner had a turnover of DKK 50 billion in 2006 and had 11,000 employees in Norway. It is crucial, as the Government sees it, that we are able to maintain a Norwegian controlling ownership in Aker Kværner, in order to maintain both jobs and knowledge where Norway is in a leading position. When we negotiated a solution, it was important for the state that Aker was still the leading company and took the greatest financial risk in cooperation. That Aker ASA has committed itself to owning Aker Holding AS for ten years together with the state, is historic. It's the first time a private operator has tied up so much capital in a long-term ownership with the state. Furthermore, the government, in common with Aker ASA, has seen the benefits of obtaining other industrial environments on the owner's side. I am therefore happy that we got with us Investor and SAAB. These are companies that have valuable industrial skills and, like the state and Aker, are looking forward to the future development of Aker Kværner. The agreement recognises the employees, technologies and knowledge of the company. As stated in the proposition, companies, together with the state through Aker Holding, will have negative control and in practice control the further development of Aker Kværner. We have agreed that Aker Kværner should be further developed as an internationally competitive and significant supplier of technology, products, systems and services with a focus on the energy, oil and gas sectors. The state's ownership of Aker Holding is motivated by the desire for business value development and anchoring of the head office of Aker Kværner ASA in Norway. I also expect Aker Kværner to provide a commercial return on the invested capital. The company has given its shareholders a good return in recent years, and we expect it to be a good investment. The government has always assumed that the state should be an active, long-term and predictable owner of important Norwegian companies, as I also stated in the ownership announcement. Although parts of the opposition support the main lines of the proposition, we also see that classical ideological lines of politics are clearly visible. The Progress Party will sell shares for equivalent amounts invested by the State, while the Right, who wants a reduced state ownership, is critical of the purchase. I note that the minority's proposals today will not have a majority. On the contrary, the majority and this government will retain strong state ownership and ensure a Norwegian anchoring of this important company. As the majority of the committees underline, few ownership environments in Norway, outside the country, are large enough to take such ownership. The State has seen it as its responsibility to facilitate a long-term clarification of the ownership of Aker Kværner. So many people have asked the question about the price being paid is correct. I record that the references given here from the pulpit refer to the first days after the government's planned purchase in Aker Holding was submitted. It is obvious that there are parts of the information related to the purchase that may not have been known at that time. I can't explain the interpretations that have been given in any other way. First of all, ten years of binding. It is the state that has wanted us to bind ownership between the three partners for as long as possible. In negotiations, it is usually the case that when a claim is implemented, it is difficult to demand compensation and price reduction because a claim has been made — afterwards. The second thing, which is far too little, is that we have, as the representative Hansen said, ownership that corresponds to approx. 12.1 pst. of the shares in Aker Holding, nevertheless, has been able to obtain negative control through a shareholder agreement between the shareholders of Aker Holding. That means we have achieved more than if we were to buy at market price. The pricing has been evaluated by very many experts daily, running in a liquid share in the market, but we have achieved things in addition to what one could get by purchasing 12 pst. of the shares in Aker Kværner directly on the stock exchange, and thus received more for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2091	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2095	The Government and the Advance Party agree that national ownership in key corner stone holdings in our country is important. The Progress Party also believes that we can invest some billions of oil just as much in Norwegian business as sending them to business abroad. But there, I also think the roads of the Government and the Advance Party in many ways are being separated, because it seems important for this government to put as much ownership as possible under state wings. Will the Council of State draw an equal sign between national ownership and state ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2102	No, and I don't want to say that national ownership is necessarily the only right thing. There are many foreign owner-occupiers who can also contribute with competence to Norwegian owner-ocupiers. We have examples in this industry that form the basis for this debate, on foreign-owned companies that actually do a very good job in the supplier industry. I also have faith in mixed economy. With regard to the proposal made by the Progress Party in the ownership announcement to sell the shares for NOK 225 billion, which I think it was at the time – the amount would be much larger today, right – there are no Norwegian competence environments that can take over those shares. Then we are at risk of getting into a situation where important head office functions, research environments and industry-related environments are being moved out of the country, and that's what we want to counter. We can't give a guarantee, and we haven't given the impression of it, for each job, but we give the company long-term ownership, stability and the ability to develop positively in Norwegian environments of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2111	This is wrong, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2116	I requested both in my post and in the notes on which the Right is involved, a fundamental discussion about what this purchase really means. Unfortunately, the Minister for Industry made a very unkind contribution in this respect, perhaps more woolly than the remarks in the vote. Governments indicated national anchoring of key enterprises in the knowledge society as the criterion for extracting Aker Kværner’s purchases. That criterion applies to a lot of Norwegian companies, and what's interesting is what the country will do in similar situations in the future. This type of acquisition in new industries in new enterprises is not mentioned in the ownership notification, and there is potentially a billion-dollar purchase in many enterprises here, if you believe that this is something that the Minister of Industry intends to do in the future. What about Aker Yards? Should the state have gone in there? What about Orkla, if they're moving? Should the state go in there? Is this a unique single issue based on the approach to entry, or is this a new working method that the Minister of Industry wants to use in industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2125	There is a lot to say about the level of detail of the representative when he characterises the proposal as ‘based on the approach’. In the course of the discussion about Aker Kværner, the representative said the most incredible things to the media, and before the case was presented, he thought things about the quality of e.g. pricing without even getting involved in the case. I want to treat Norwegian business in a much more serious way than that. That's why we've had a thorough process in the Ministry of Economic Affairs before we decided to go into this solution. It has gradually become known that the process with the other two owners of Aker Holding actually took place over two months. It was carried out in cooperation between competent environments. The market price was clearly defined by many market players, because we are talking about a liquid share, but we have, in addition to the experts we have in the department, used many other experts to evaluate the proposal that is now here. So, no, this proposal -- we're talking about continuing a strong industrial and competence environment on Norwegian hands -- is well prepared, well worked through, and I'm disappointed at the Right Approach to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2132	30 pst. is a slightly special property, just under blocking minorities, so an expensive part to buy, but without real control. Swedish interests have 10 pst. the owner's part and with the right of pre-emption of these to Aker ASA. On the basis of this, I have two questions for the Council of State. First of all, was it a topic in the negotiations to go higher with state ownership, i.e., above the blocking minority limit? Secondly, it was a topic in the negotiations that the State should have pre-emptive rights to the 10 pst. coming to Swedish hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2144	Without going into all the details of the negotiation situation, I can clearly answer the first question of going higher in relation to Aker. I understood that that was the question. On the contrary, for us, it was a point that the industrial and competence environment that Aker represents should continue to be in industrial leadership in that company through indirect ownership. So that's right, as the representative says, we have 30 pst. and thus formally not blocking minority. The reality is that we have an agreement between the shareholders that allows us not only to stop any changes to the statutes in Aker Holding, but that we have actually got through to the shareholder agreement that Aker Holding, who has blocking minorities, cannot make changes to the statutes without us, despite the low percentage we have in the legal sense, nevertheless have the possibility to block changes to the statutes in the main company Aker Kværner. That's why we've also gotten a lot more out of the investment we've made than the amount of the crown was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2151	Today's debate has not made it any clearer to me what is really the point of the state acquisition in Aker Holding. Possibly there is a shoulder clapping from LO to the Council of State and symbolism policy on so-called active ownership. My claim is that a number of questions remain unanswered – it is obvious what influence the state actually has over the possible dispositions the majority owners of the company would have to want to do in the future, but also what is really behind the state purchase. I therefore ask the Council of State to answer as to why it was more important to spend nearly 5 billion kroner on a minority holding in Aker than on other companies, and if not the Council of State believes that the State pension fund does well enough to perform the investment role in Norwegian business, since the state has to enter an extraordinary holding in a large private enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2156	To the first question of why we've spent almost 5 billion kroner: yes, there's a lot of confusion here. The same representative said in his main post that we could have spent the money on other operating costs on the state budget. There is a fundamental misunderstanding. This money has not been used. This money is invested. That means that there's an investment that we expect to get a return on in the future. It's something quite different than spending the money. So there's a question of how we can spend money on private companies. The representative said something in his main post that is fundamentally wrong. We have not paid out one kroner to Kjell Inge Smoke. Maybe you could have been a little bit more neat in the argument. So it's the Aker company, which is made up of a lot of companies in Norway, that have got this capital. This strengthens their muscles to drive other parts of the Aker group forcefully. But this government believes that in a situation where the state has capital wealth, together with private, good, industrial capitalists, we can contribute to an industrial development that can sustain the welfare society in the future after oil and gas production declines. It's important to us. That's why we believe that the right-hand side must look to get out of the ideological stick.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2163	I think the Council of State has a very strange behavior in this debate. He just got a question as to whether this purchase is a one-off case based on the approach to entry, or whether the purchase is a new method of working in business policy where the Council of State will be able to buy into companies that he considers to be key companies in the knowledge society. Many companies in Norway are key companies in the knowledge society. The question is whether the State Council is now establishing the Oil Fund as a new industrial policy mechanism, allowing it to enter any company that can be defined as a key enterprise in the knowledge society. To the reply to the reply from the representative Kongshaug, I would say that it is a fact that smoking controls approx. 60 pst. by the Aker system. As far as I understand, it was this system that got the 5 billion kroner that the Council of State paid out in this context. It was not an irrelevant question. What's the principle here is whether this is a new working method in business policy, or whether it's a one-off matter based on the input method.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2173	It was the last comment in the previous question from Torbjørn Hansen that was the basis for me answering as I did. It's not about any input method. This has been thoroughly reviewed both in terms of economic values and strategy. But so it is that I – I can reveal it – do not have a trade list to ensure that the state buys up in large companies. We do not have any concrete plans to do so. Here was one owner's item for sale. We saw an industrial opportunity – not just to bind Aker, who has driven Aker Kværner very well – to future industrial development and, at the same time, to work together with a large Swedish industrial environment, with the opportunities that lie there for industrial development with Sweden. That is why many experts have expressed the exact opposite of what experts the representative Hansen chooses to focus on. What I hope for is that we can have an active industrial policy debate in the future, and that the Right can soon get out of its ideological sticks and mantra that the State cannot own, and see how we can jointly build tomorrow's business life in a good cooperation between private Norwegian capitalists – for the sake of foreign capitalists – and state capital, such as us. proposes in the new nutrition fund, which is also rejected by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2182	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2187	‘Ideological stickers’ is an interesting expression, especially when it comes from someone who must be expected to be a professional in the field! Active enterprise policies are constantly taking place in new guises, this time with the purchase of a minority holding in a large Norwegian enterprise. I find the Council of State to be strange when, on a couple of occasions, Torbjørn Hansen tries to take up the principle of buying up items in these types of companies for the benefit of the community. I think maybe the Council of State should rely on a different kind of response than just referring to our poor level of factuality. Price developments in the last few days in StatoilHydro have shown that investment in individual sectors is vulnerable. Our common values are vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations and to single events. The purchase that is now being made increases this vulnerability. It's actually worrying that it's being implemented without any fundamental clarifications about how to deal with the future. I agree with the representative Lundtigen, who said earlier today that we only want this type of business, i.e. the oil and gas business, for a short period of time in the Norwegian economy. How short, it's hard to say, but it's obvious that you have to be aware of the risk here. I must also say this to those who throughout the day, and also in this case, pay tribute to the purchase as another example of active business policy. A week ago, in this room, a budget was adopted that provided a significant increase in taxation for tens of thousands of owners of large and small Norwegian companies. The same thing has ritually repeated itself on every single budget under the red-green. I think that for all these owners of thousands of businesses, it must be completely incomprehensible that active industrial policy consists of paying an increasing tax to own their business, regardless of its return, every year, while the government spends nearly 5 billion dollars buying shares of one of the country's business owners, in a risk-free industry, tied up for ten years as a passive investment. I think that, unfortunately, the representative Hansen is right in his statement that active industrial policy in this context is industrial policy by the input method.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2202	I will clarify a manifest error that the Council of State came with in its response to my reply instead. The Council of State said that the proposals of the Progress Party for sales in the context of the ownership notification would lead to these companies moving their head office, research, etc. Out of the country. Then I have to say that the Council of State is not following closely, because the Progress Party has never suggested that we sell ourselves entirely out of these companies, but we believe that the State should be able to have a lower share of ownership in these companies, even if one would also have a controlling ownership. The important thing is that the state has a holding that allows us to say from when there is a need for it, not that the state should own as much as possible. If the Council of State is concerned that there are no private ownership environments in Norway that can buy larger shareholdings, the Council of State and the Government should do much more to ensure that we get that type of ownership environment privately in Norway. It goes on property taxes, we have the shipping industry – which is a capital industry, but where the Government now collects large parts of equity – and there are also environments that could have bought larger shareholdings in other industries and enterprises. From now on, I don't expect the Council of State to come up with that kind of rhetoric against the Advancement Party. The Progress Party has not intended to contribute to the flagging of these large enterprises out of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2211	I guess I don't think this part of the debate is the most central, but for the sake of order: if we go into the ownership message and look, we see that it's not right as the representative Asmyhr says, that one won't be left with ownership entries. In Baneservice, Bane Tele, Entra Eiendom, Enova, Flytoget, Competence Center for IT in Health, Mesta, NRK, NSB, State Consultant, Statskog, UNINET, Cermac and SAS, the Advance Party enters to reduce the ownership share just to zero. – It’s the facts, as stated in the ownership message. We've now discussed Aker Holding. Earlier today, we have discussed a new state fund of SEK 2.2 billion, which should be part of a possible ownership of future emerging, newly developed businesses. That fund is a very good example, because there we have set the limit that the fund cannot own more than 49 pst. of the companies that you enter. There is one way to think strategically about the development of business in the future, because it actually requires private capital alongside state capital. Edmund Burke created in his time a political ideological platform for right-wing politics. There's something back in time. The same is true of Adam Smith's economic models. None of them assume the fact that we live in a state rich in capital. I'm trying to invite Right out of the ideological stick, to join and discuss whether we can use that wealth of capital, together with private capital and with foreign capital, to contribute to the growth and development of a business that will be the foundation of the welfare society in the future, partly in Aker Kværner, by a competence environment built up because the politicians before us made some wise choices in the 1970s that made us get a national development around oil technology. Should we not take responsibility and say that there we have acquired knowledge that is now in demand in the world, for example. on the Subsea side, and then go into the ownership page of such a company? So I'm inviting you to a discussion about whether we can't do like those who chose to reindustrialize Norway for a long time, who used completely different tools, or like those who took the right political choices in the 1970s, which means that we have the wealth we have today. Do we not now owe them the opportunity to discuss how we can use our space of action to ensure that we also have a valuable strong business life in the future – preferably in cooperation between private and state capital – and not just on the basis of old dogmas say: No, no, no!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2222	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[Footing, see page 1335]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2238	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1335]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2255	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1336]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2271	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1337]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2287	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7, 8, 10, 11 and 12 are dealt with as a whole and consider it to be adopted. [[Footage, see page 1337]] The President will propose that, because of this merger, we deal with case No. 9 at the end of the current map, and consider it also adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2352	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate on case No. 7, 8, 10, 11 and 12 will be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that speaking time will be allocated as follows: the working party 45 minutes, the progress party 25 minutes, the right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the centre party 10 minutes and the left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2361	First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good tone and effective cooperation in the budgeting process. Now I look forward to a good and perhaps healthy debate. The municipal welfare service and the municipal economy have had a clearly visible improvement since the red-green majority in this room. The figures are gradually well-known, but have to be repeated: with the 2008 draft budget, the real growth in total revenue is close to DKK 21 billion compared to 2005. In addition, almost 8 billion kroner will be spent on VAT growth, which the municipal sector has earned well. These are extraordinary incomes that municipalities have been able to use to strengthen the budgetary balance, such as paying off debts, making up the deficits of previous years and re-filling reserves that have been more or less exhausted in a short period of time, and some municipalities have also been able to escape a little extra and necessary maintenance. We have something called the Register of conditional approval and verification, the ROBEK register. There is no municipality that has a strong desire to be there. Fortunately, the right road goes. During the 2004–2005 period, there was an increase in the number of drug users in the EU. 120 municipalities on the list, there are now 42 municipalities registered. It's September numbers. Municipalities and county councils have used the increase in income in recent years in a good way, to provide citizens with more and better services and to correct the economy. In the last two years, the number of kindergartens has increased by almost 25 000. Thus, by the way, 250,000 children will have space in the nursery, and kindergarten space for anyone who wants it is within reach. We are also on track – yes, in front of the form – in terms of the target of 10,000 new annual jobs in the care sector during this large-scale period. Local authorities have increased the cost of care and care for more than 10 pst. in one year. In the same period, there is an increase in school of 7.2 pst. In other words, municipalities spend money on the most important welfare tasks. This fully indicates that local politicians do not need to have detailed directives centrally from and money by label, or have to be degraded to brokers of cheques or vouchers, as the Progress Party wants, in order for the money to be spent wisely. Nor are there many who are asking for the extensive bureaucracy The Progress Party in this way is eager to build up. Norwegian municipalities are different, sometimes very different. From municipality to municipality varies conditions and needs. Therefore, local politicians must have the freedom to prioritize and organise the provision of welfare, so that it is best suited to their municipality. Therefore, the bulk of the strengthening of the local economy has come through free revenues. In today's debate, too, we are bound to experience variations of complaints, especially from the right parties, about the red-green policy and efforts, and we are sure to hear – from the two right parties – how backward we are, we who do not regard competitive outsourcing and privatisation as geniuses in welfare policy. But what we're certainly not going to hear about from the right parties is the need for more income equalization between rich and low-income municipalities. For some things is predictable, unless the two parties will listen to the following advice: Suffering if attack can be the best defense, I will ask the chief defender of the previous government once and for all to admit that the savings knife was too dominant towards the local government sector when the Bondevik government put in power, yes, and the times so tough that many municipalities are still struggling with the aftermath. They may also admit that if they had won the choice they lost, they would not have planned a financial trip for the municipalities either. And the Progress Party can say it right out today, instead of maybe in book form in a few years, that even this time their additions to Municipality-Norway have been made one and only for populist reasons. No one is fooled, for everyone knows that more money for community solutions has never been on the agenda of the Progress Party. Swallow if we've lit two candles on the advent roof and tasted some Christmas bars, we don't believe in Christmas. Then I feel that it is better with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The care of Kommune-Norge quickly appeared as the two parties escaped from government responsibility. Unlike the Right and Advance Party, they share a lot of our view of how welfare services and local democracy should be organised, and I think that when they are in the right corner, they are genuinely committed to providing the municipalities with a good framework. The Christian People's Party and the Left we are dealing with in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, I would like to see that we can expand the dialogue and policy-making with it. For example, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together with us red-green about wanting to further develop the quality community programme, which is an important cooperation project between the state, KS and the employee organisations. We have great faith that just such a model of cooperation will produce good results, and we see that more and more municipalities find this interesting. That's good, because this is modern renewal work. The aim of the programme is to improve the quality of services to citizens. Until now, 90 municipalities are included. The objective is for 200 municipalities to participate in the programme during 2009. We believe that the programme is so important and correct that we stress that the Government, which is already heavily involved in this, must prioritise the programme highly and strengthen the appropriations, because we believe it is well spent. The same five batches have, as you know, concluded an important agreement to increase the quality and capacity of care for the elderly. A number of measures are proposed. The Progress Party and the Right will not participate in the agreement, while saying that they are disappointed that there was no broader political cooperation. I will not participate in the Feast of Christmas in whomever carries the greatest disappointment, but I note that the two parties mentioned may not be able – or probably – to sidestep party politics. The five lots which have concluded the agreement include, inter alia,: keenly concerned that older people should stay at home for as long as they wish. This means that there is a need to provide grants for accommodation adaptation and access. We want a grant scheme for lifts, in addition to the schemes we now have from 2008 on grants for nursing homes and nursing homes. Pending this, we allocate money for the design of a lift in existing residential buildings, up to 5 million. kr for 2008. This was also a matter that many organisations were concerned about when we had our budget hearing. Otherwise, when I'm in the home, I want to point out what we three government parties say, that it's a housing policy task to influence and control investment in the housing sector so that they promote social goals. In this context, the Husbank must have a central role, and municipalities must also continue to play a very important role in facilitating housing. I do not find it difficult to admit that there is still a need to strengthen the local economy. Because we want more and better offers, we will still strive for increased quality. We also know that several municipalities have special challenges because our income system is not fair enough, which we will address. At the same time, we know how much interest rates affect the economic space in the municipalities, so the municipalities are also heavily dependent on tight fiscal policies. Let it also be said: I also know that the county councils also do not experience having any Sarepta pot, sails if the county councils have received significant refills. They are in the midst of major demographic challenges related to the provision of secondary education; they must provide a good collective service, where costs are increasing, and much more important. But the Right clearly believes that the Government will give the county councils too much money next year, and is in favour of a cut of NOK 1/4 billion in framework transfers. The right-hand cutters also cost SEK 1/4 billion for regional development and innovation. It surprises me that the Right does. I say it again: it is obvious that all those who are concerned with good Community solutions in the municipalities and county municipalities are best served with red-green policies. We are constantly seeing this in practical policy, not least through the great promises made in recent years. In 2008, there will be a real growth in the total income of the municipal sector of SEK 6.2 billion. Of this, SEK 1.5 billion is free income and SEK 500 million. kr goes to the Top Funding Facility for Resource-Required Services – expenditure currently incurred by municipalities, so that these are funds that also bear the mark of being free. This last matter I mention here, related to the top finance scheme, we are very happy that we have got in place. This issue was a lot of progress in the previous budget debate, and, as we all see, a much better arrangement is now in place. We created expectation of improvement, and we provide an improvement. That's to satisfy. The government has not only put in place the money that the previous government incomprehensiblely took away from the scheme, but the government takes a greater responsibility. We also have a strong hope that the improvement that has also been made in the funding arrangements for refugees with severe disabilities or behavioural disabilities will lead to a faster settlement of this group of people, who need it so deeply. It was an important increase in housing aid of 22 million. kr that occurred during the financial year. The money will be used for targeted action against people who really need housing support and who are currently outside the scheme. Just improving support for groups currently outside the housing support scheme will be an important part of the Government’s focus in the context of the announced and major review of the scheme. Housing aid is the main economic instrument of housing social work and is central to the government’s efforts to combat poverty. We are also concerned about contributing to good living conditions. This is one of the reasons why we also pay attention to Norway’s Wellbeing Association of 1.3 million. kr. We have also covered the Data Protection Agency with 1 million. kr extra next year. It's about privacy. We need to raise awareness of privacy, and it is particularly important that information work on children and young people is intensified. The government is strengthening the integration effort by 212 million. Next year, in addition to what was in the current year’s action plan, the action plan also follows with this State budget. It's important, because this is a work that we have to do over time. There are many good examples of the effectiveness of these measures. Others from our side will say more about this important integration work later in the debate. Finally, I would like to give the Government the honour to give priority to important co-political initiatives, such as: the value added programme for business combinations. There is a need for traditional Sami industries to be further developed together with new industries, in particular with a view to ensuring local communities' settlements. In the same policy, the other Party of Progress and the Right Party distinguishes. That's good. That's what the right hand is for. For it is important that there is the widest possible openness to the principles of the common policies here in the United Kingdom. Yes, it's particularly important that we all stand together when we have such an extremely progressive party that we were recently shown here again in the Chamber on the same political issues. The right-wing representative Gunnar Gunnersen from Hedmark is quite right when he writes in a reader letter, among other things. stated in Oppland Arbeiderblad yesterday: ‘If there is something you can’t blame Erna Solberg for, then it’s creating expectations.’ We think it’s very good that there’s completely different expectations for a red-green government. And people see that the country now has an offensive government, which spends money on well-being rather than tax relief, a government that is said not to be able to deliver absolutely everything at the same time, but which, in turn, and in order – and I would say at a high pace – fulfills its objectives and expectations. I also believe that this budget and this budgetary position are a clear illustration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2426	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately over. However, the President will propose that before the meeting is cancelled, there be a change of line after the contributions of Tore Hagebakken. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2431	The representative Hagebakken indicates that there have been great expectations of this government, not least in relation to the municipalities and the financial structure of the municipalities. In the last two years, the situation may have been such that the municipalities have been given an increase that has been most necessary. But with this scheme for the next year, many municipalities will come into the situation that, because of increased pension obligations, increased interest rates and increased costs, they will have to cut deep into budgets, cut into old age care and drop out of schools to get the economy to go around. In a municipality like Harstad, people go on trains and protest against a miserable economic situation where you have to cut tens of millions. What will the representative, Mr Hagebakken, as chairman of the Municipal Committee, say to these municipalities that have expectations of the government's constitution? What does the representative say to those people about the financial arrangement, and about the situation of the municipalities for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2438	I think I'd like to start by saying that I don't dare think about what it would have been like in Harstad if the previous government had been allowed to continue, and especially if the Progress Party had been able to get through the policy they really wanted the previous government to lead. Then I would say to many municipalities that in addition to our ambitions to further strengthen the local economy – and in addition to the enormous promise we have made – we need to have a review of the income system to make it fairer. I also invite the right parties to join in constructively. They probably think from the Right and Advance Party that the income bias we have today is already going too far, so I think the odds of cooperation with us in this way are bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2445	First I have to thank the representative Hagebakken for spending some of his time on the Christian People's Party's policy, and that can only confirm that it is right that the Christian People's Party is genuinely concerned with the woes of local and local democracy. In my line, I want to grasp something that the representative did not talk about. Indeed, the budget debate allows us to talk about both economic priorities and political priorities for the year ahead. Last year, Hagebakken spoke a lot about the administrative reform. This year it was not mentioned in a single word. Is it because it's cancelled, or is it because it's going on for so long? My question is, what's going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2452	It is always good to record the pressure that the Christian People's Party has to put in place a good governance reform. We need three strong levels of government in Norway. I'm going to tell you what it is that the government was actually supposed to have been out with a letter of consultation a while ago. It has not yet come – I think I want to express myself this way – because we are working very intensively in an attempt to get a little bit further, something the Christian People's Party is concerned about, in terms of the task portfolio. Nor should it be put under the chair that it's a difficult job, but we have ambitions, and because we have ambitions, we think it's important to spend some time. The most important thing is that we have a good reform in place. So I hope that a good letter of consultation from the Government can go out if not too long and create a good debate. We've said that we're open to recording until we're going to make final decisions here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2459	I do not think the country's newly elected local politicians and rapporteurs are comforted by the fact that Tore Hagebakken is still hanging back in the rhetoric from 2006 and has not taken over neither the municipal structure for this year, 2007 nor the municipal structure for 2008. As Bjørn Gudbjørgsrud says in the Evening Post: ‘The Community framework for 2008 actually means a lower growth than the budgets of Erna Solberg.’ I wonder if Tore Hagebakken has locked himself in on the Stortinget and stopped reading the locals, when he has not been told that so to speak, all the local government in this country in these days is operating and cutting in their budgets. I also wonder what the representative, Mr Hagebakken, has forgotten to tell the Minister of Finance, since the Minister of Finance, on pages 75 and 76 of the National Budget, writes that the free revenues of municipalities are reduced in 2007 and further reduced in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2469	It is true that when, unlike what the government did before us, we allow municipalities to retain additional tax revenues, it means that it becomes more difficult to get a large growth into the next year, as long as they have a taste at the next year's level. But the representative, Höie, needs to know that we are following developments in the municipal sector very closely. We have had meetings with dozens of rapporteurs who have views, especially on the income system, because it is so crucial for how much each municipality gets. But it should also be said that many people believe that more money is needed. I just said in my post here that we should acknowledge that more money is needed. It's probably a lot of stuff, but we've got ambitions on, and we still want to play with the municipal sector. I want to say that only in the first financial year, 2006 we got the same amount of money in place as the previous government did in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-11.ana.ud2313e2476	The cord shift is over. Tomorrow's meeting is over. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 6:00 p.m.
