ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e51	The representative André N. Skelstad, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e68	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes, In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e79	The Norwegian fisheries policy shifted direction after the enlargement elections in 2005. A new and comprehensive coastal policy to provide a basis for coastal settlement and employment is now under way. There is an ideological distinction between the Bondevik II government and today's government in the view of the ownership of the fish resources. Well there is verbal agreement that the fishing resources belong to us all, but in practice the previous government allowed the most capital-intensive players in the fishing industry to buy quota rights of no part and ownership, at prices that are only exceeded by what we now see in Iceland. This form of privatisation of fishing rights is now coming to an end. With the support of the government parties in Stortinget, the Government is now returning to time-limited structural quotas, but in a new design. This means that fishermen who purchase an additional quota in addition to the basic quota will borrow it for 20 years, when it will be returned to the Community. In other words, the structural quota system acts as a privately funded concession scheme, where, after a pre-agreed period of time, the allowances fall back into the Community and are re-allocated within the vessel group concerned. In order to obtain the effect of the structural scheme without reserving access to the allowances to the most capital-intensive operators on the market, it is important that the quota period is of such a length as to provide reasonable assurance for the investments, while keeping the quota prices at an affordable level. Then 20 years is a sufficiently long period. It's a normal credit period in business, and it's a reasonable depreciation period. And so, in order for those who today have bought «permanent structural quotas» under the Bondevik government to receive some compensation for the transition to fixed-term structural quotas, a further five years have passed. I would like to point out here that the government is asking the government to ensure that, in future re-allocation, it seeks to equalise inequalities in the quota base. This is particularly the case with the ringnote group. It is fully agreed that in the future we will also have a varied and profitable fishing fleet capable of delivering fresh fish to the domestic market and to the large markets outside Europe and the world in general, which will ensure industry access to raw materials throughout the year. Yes, the whole purpose of structural policy is precisely to contribute to increased profitability and good profitability, not only in the fishing fleet but throughout all parts of the value chain, from the fish taken up by the sea to being sold on the market. It is this that will give lives to our coastal communities, and that will ensure settlement and employment along our coast. Fishing is one of our most important industries in the future. With sustainable management of fishing resources, with good and predictable framework conditions, the fishing industry will provide the coastal population with safe jobs in the foreseeable future. The ownership of the fishing fleet is therefore important. Locally anchored companies and ownership are of great importance for housing and employment and for the processing industry. There is a relatively broad consensus that we need ownership restrictions within the different fleet groups to prevent ownership from being concentrated on too few hands. All parties in the Committee wish to have limitations of ownership, albeit to a different extent. In the sea fishing fleet there are such limitations, but not in the coastal fishing fleet. Actually, today we know a little too little about how the ownership of the fishing fleet is divided. There is a clear need for monitoring, which must also include minority shares. However, there should be no doubt, particularly after the Committee's trip to Iceland, that the monitoring to be carried out should lead to general restrictions on ownership, including in the coastal fishing fleet. In addition, it may be appropriate to restrict the so-called "cross-ownership" of the sea fishing fleet to the coastal fleet or to the minority shares of industry in coastal vessels. I have noticed in particular that the Norwegian Coastal Fishery Team arranges that an active fisherman should not be able to own and operate more than two vessels. I think this is an interesting proposal, and a broad majority of the Committee asks the Government to assess this and/or similar arrangements that can ensure a varied and decentralised ownership of the coastal fishing fleet. The average age of active fishermen is high. In fact, the fishing industry is in the process of being digested. At the same time, the industry notes increased competition for labour from other industries. Without a profitable fleet ensuring the success of the practitioners, the fishing industry will lose its competitive position on the labour force of the future. An overall committee therefore stresses the need for structural policy to create room for new recruitment. It is important that new practitioners are brought into the industry in the coming years. Therefore, we ask the Government to give priority to the recruitment work. First of all, it is important that schools providing training in the fisheries sector are allocated sufficient training quotas to be able to provide practical and varied training for students applying for the fishing profession. The school system is essential for recruiting crews to the fishing fleet. Competence must be built here and students motivated for their professional choice. The issue of own allowances for vessels incorporating apprentices must also be considered. And finally, we're asking that part of the total quota be set aside for recruitment. The Committee also requires that the recruitment work be carried out in close cooperation with fishermen’s organisations. Both the Government, the Government and the opposition parties stress that the allocation of allowances between the different vessel groups is fixed, i.e. it is not affected by the structural message itself. It has been a prerequisite for the Committee's work, and I would also believe that business organisations and everyone else who has participated in the structural debate. And the debate has been important in all its phases – before and after the Structural Committee presented its position, before and after the Government presented its communication, and during the Committee's examination of the Structural Communication. In fact, I also believe that the debate has affected the outcome. In particular this applies to the coastal fleet and to the fleet group below 15 metres. The Government Parties support, as is known, the Government's proposal to: that the mastering system is to be continued for the smallest coastal fleet vessels until 1 July 2008, as the system is to be evaluated under an adjusted structural quota scheme for those groups which now have a structural quota system that lower the quota ceiling for coastal fishing fleets should also be able to benefit from the structural quota system between 11 and 15 metres in length, but with a lower quota ceiling; In particular, the proposal for structuring in the vessel group between 11 and 15 metres has appealed to coastal emotional life. However, it seems that the militia has calmed down somewhat after the government parties in the committee position asked the government to consider the Coastal Fishery Team's proposal to structure down the Shark Fleet. It will in reality mean the establishment of a 15-metre fire wall, where vessels below this length limit can purchase allowances from larger vessels, but not vice versa. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the Government's proposal for a limited structure contributes to increased profitability in this group, while increasing the efficiency of the fishing fleet below 11 metres – a group of vessels that has not even managed to fish their share of the total quota. Finally, I would like to mention that the Structural Committee proposed that the possibilities for co-fishing should be assessed in greater detail, especially for the smaller groups of vessels. The need for such a scheme has not been clarified and the arrangement for any co-fishing arrangement has not been assessed. This should be done before we introduce such a system, if appropriate. However, I think it is worth stressing that co-fishing must not be seen as a substitute for the operating system. However, co-operation may have important safety aspects that may be considered. That's why we're asking the government to take a closer look at these questions. As I assume that the opposition parties will explain their views and proposals, I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e134	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e137	Before this government joined, there would be a completely different industrial policy. There would be more predictability in business policy. The representative of Gullvåg was right when he said in his speech that the fisheries policy has changed direction after the government change. But instead of having a predictable policy, we have an unforeseeable policy, which is more marked by political ideology than by reality – so also in this case. Several of the Government's proposals have produced significant noise in the industry and along the coast. Is the representative Steinar Gullvåg willing to take some self-criticism for this noise that he, the government parties and the government have contributed to in this matter, or does this criticism go by?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e142	I think it is very interesting that it is the Progress Party that is now addressing the noise level as a problem in the Norwegian fishing industry. Because in recent years some have actually contributed to raising the noise level of the fisheries policy debate, it is precisely the Progress Party. I think it is very interesting that, on this occasion, the Progress Party is demonstrating an unparalleled reverse operation in the fisheries policy. Because if you go back and look at the positions of this party at the latest two years ago, you can see that the cause of the unrest is not the conversion that is now taking place, but the turnaround that took place in 2005 and 2003, when almost a pen stroke introduced eternal quotas in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e147	This was supposed to be the reversal of the Norwegian fisheries policy. The fishing resources were to return to the community. The so-called privatisation of fish quotas would end. The settlement ends today as an adjustment to structural arrangements, with some serious violations of the principles of decision-making with retroactive effect, and the Government extends even some of the structural quota arrangements for smaller vessels. The government has now argued internally for almost two years. The possibility of a wide lashing in Stortinget disappeared. This means that we have two years of structural halt and perhaps only two years of predictability of today's decision, by the fact that an ideological crusade ended in a solid bellyplate and a highly frustrated fishing industry. The representative of Gullvåg said that the time-limited allowances go back to the Community. That's wrong. The allowances go back to the other quota owners in the same group. So a fish doesn't go back to the community, and the quotas don't get more or less private than they've been all along. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Gullvåg, whether he believes that this process was worth the cost to the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e156	Yes, I think it makes sense that the government has taken the time to have a structural break, that the government has set up a structural committee, which has investigated the structural arrangements in the industry, and that the Stortinge has again been given the opportunity to discuss structural policy. The ratio is that the outgoing government actually changed the conditions of the overnight structural arrangements in 2005 in the case of the sea fishing fleet, without any reason to consult the Stortinget. This government has done it, and has spent time on it. I think it is important that the policy is actually anchored in this Chamber. Otherwise, I think it is remarkable that the right-wing parties in the configuration write page up and down about changes in the fisheries policy that they actually call an adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e163	The fishing industry is a very important industry, which ignites both stable and precautionary conditions. To do that, it's important to have a broad deal. That should have been a broad agreement. Initially, the case spokesperson was clearly very prepared to do this. He went out public in different ways and invited to a broad settlement. But as the matter progressed in the committee, this became harder and harder. From the Christian People's Party's side, we have been willing to stretch very far to reach a compromise that could give stability and security. My question is: can the case-speakers, Gullvåg, give a brief explanation of what was actually changing along the way, since this case evolved into the only possibility of a compromise, or a broad settlement, was everyone, at all points, joining the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e168	The structural message has come about through a relatively long and broad process, with which the representative Sørfonn is well known. During the process, it has been necessary to make compromises, adjustments have been necessary until the Government has submitted its notification. It is with regret that I record that it has not been possible for other parties to join the extended hand given by the Government in the presentation of the structural message, which differs significantly from the setting provided by the Structural Committee. It would have been interesting to hear if the fundamental difference in the view of fixed-term and perpetual allowances, as shown in the setting, is also subject to discussion. But the representative, Sørfonn, can address that in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e177	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e181	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the job that has been done. There has certainly been a demanding process. The most demanding process was enough before the notification came, internally in the Government and among government parties. There has been talk of trying to reach a broad agreement on this message. I haven't seen that much. For what has been the goal of the government parties, it has actually been to stand fairly united behind the message that exists. I think it's a pity you couldn't make a broad deal in such an important matter. Fishing is one of the most important industries in Norway. If you take the seafood together, it was probably exported in 2006 for 36 billion kroner. In other words, it is a very important industry. It is an industry that is the lifeblood of very many communities along our coast. It is also an industry which is on its own economic level, a non-subsidized industry. I think you should be proud and happy that you don't have the same framework conditions as other industries that produce food. Of course, it is also an industry that requires good and stable framework conditions. If one compares the fishing industry with some other industries, for example: the oil and gas industries are tax-adapted industries, if necessary. Snow White is an example in that way, and we thought that was right when that debate was up. Power-intensive industry today has some favourable power agreements. If the government gets more in place, the time will show, but it will show that the industry has favorable conditions. Shipping has a net pay-as-you-go system. And Norwegian farmers get subsidies in the tens of billions of dollars class, in the form of direct and indirect support. What the fishing industry is experiencing is, unfortunately, changing framework conditions, constant changes and deterioration, NOx taxation, and political uncertainty at all. This policy has been pursued and addressed to a greater extent in the Communication. So especially in this case with an unlimited allowance that has been introduced, the government is making a change with retroactive effect. It is clear that changing the policy so radically affects those who have made great investments in good faith. There is considerable uncertainty in the industry as to what kind of policy will apply at all times. As the government parties write in the setting, they believe that the Government is ‘on a secure legal basis’. It is well possible to do so, and that you have legal cover to do this. But what about the moral side of what you do? As we assess it, it is simply a matter of creating political contempt when you can change the framework conditions as radically as the Government does here. I like to see those who dare to go into this industry with big investments. It will also be a constraint for those who want to enter the industry, when you can treat the industry with such changing conditions from one moment to the next. Then time limits are also imposed on future allowances. Once again, this will lead to uncertainty. What's going to happen to the quotas that you get after 20 years? What will the image look like when all allowances are redistributed? It is also creating changes to the framework conditions, and it will ensure that those who want to enter into new projects will be deterred from simply drying out to invest, because this changes all the time. It also contributes to the maintenance of overcapacity. For part of the purpose of structuring is just to get rid of the overcapacity that is. This is only being extended, and business and socio-economic overcapacity is being maintained. It is worth noting that the government parties believe that the finance industry is behind this. But as the opposition parties have referred to in the setting, it's a total financial industry that is going against what's happening now. It doesn't listen to the government parties at all, and that's what we're sad to register. So the government makes an interesting grip. Structures are being initiated for the vessel group below 15 metres. We think that's essentially interesting, and we were essentially positive to it. But it's not to hide that we've got a number of enquiries at that particular point. Around the entire hearing held by the Business Committee on the structural issue, we received warnings against making these changes. The Association of Norwegian Seafood Farms and the Association of Fish Purchases, which together organises 230 farms, opposes it, the Committee of the Regions opposes it, the Land Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture, the FHL, opposes it, the Sameting goes against it, the Coastal Fisheries Team goes against it, etc., etc., etc. I could spend a lot more of my speaking time telling about everyone who opposes it, even in terms of municipalities and county councils that have gone against this structuring. We think it's so good and important notions that come, that we actually want to listen to them. And here I think the big difference between the Advance Party and the government parties is. We listen to and talk to the people and industry, the government parties talk to them, they dictate what this is like, and they don't take over the recordings that are coming. And you can ask the question: what in the world is the point of having a hearing in the Stortinget, when nothing comes out of it and it's such a massive demand from a total industry in reality that doesn't want structuring for the ship group under 15 meters, until at least you've been able to find out what it is? I have to say it amazes me. For this reason, we have proposed that the impact of this should be assessed in a consistent manner before action is taken. The government is so uncertain about how this will work that it also writes in the Communication that this will be evaluated in 2009. In other words, you're going to have to structure a little bit, and you're going to have to figure out how to change the industry again. I have to say we are disappointed that the government parties could not take this on board and at least get it determined before taking such a big step. There are a number of coastal communities that depend entirely on this fleet group. So we hope that the government parties think about one more time before doing anything like that. One of the proposals that the opposition also addresses is the recruitment of the fishing fleet. Now, in my article, I have pointed to the uncertainty that the Government and government parties are applying to the Norwegian fishing industry. You can ask the question whether there is any reason to initiate recruitment measures at all. I think there'll be a lot of people thinking about both one, two and three times before they go into an industry that is experiencing so much changes in the framework conditions, almost from hour to hour, as this government is applying them. We think it is right to complete what the Stortinget did in 2005, under the previous government. Then there was a total accumulation asking for a model of recruitment quotas for young people. We think it is important that it is followed up. So far, the government has done nothing about this. That is why we are promoting a proposal asking the Government to speed up this work. And so we found this proposal in the Soria Moria declaration. It is quite remarkable that the government parties are unable to support their own proposals, which are set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. There is evidence that the fisheries policy is completely out of course — both at the Government and at the government parties at the Stortinget. So I'd like to address the proposals no. 7 and 8, on which the Progress Party stands alone, and proposals Nos. 1–6, which we have with the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e216	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e221	I find it very interesting to hear that the representative of Korsberg is so pessimistic on behalf of an industry that is now going, so it laughs, as what he just said. We have seen that the Progress Party has gradually changed its view of fisheries policy. It is in itself gratifying that the party recognises the need for regulation of the fishing industry — not always the case — and that they now rely on the policy of former Minister for Fisheries Ludvigsen, from the previous period. I find it interesting to hear that the Progress Party now requires an impact assessment of the structuring of the group of ships with a length of between 11 and 15 metres. God sounds to help me out as if the Advance Party is like any other party – Left, for example. – in this area. Actually, this is hitting yourself on the mouth. I have to ask the representative of Korsberg: can he remember that there were such impact assessments in 2003 – not to say in 2005, when the permanent quota system was introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e232	It is a little sad that the rapporteur has not got the massive input into structuring for the fleet group of 11 to 15 metres. During about the entire hearing — for many hours — we were warned about the structure that the Government is putting up with. Obviously, the representative Gullvåg house has passed by. Afterwards, we have received daily e-mails, letters and telephones – enquiries that warn against this structuring and that are requested at least to be properly investigated. That is why we are promoting a proposal to have it assessed. As I said in my main post, we're talking to the people, not the people. The structure carried out in the previous period was positive to the industry – to eliminate overcapacity and to achieve profitability at the whole fleet stage, simply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e247	When Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs Dag Terje Andersen presented the Government's structural message to the fishing fleet, the Progress Party was quick to criticise the work. On the same day the party sent out a press release saying that the message should have gone further in structuring the fleet of ships between 11 and 15 meters. When we were given the changes in structural policy in 2003 and 2005, the Progress Party was the main supporter of the Bondevik II Government and the then Minister for Fisheries Ludvigsen's proposal for change. Even then, the Progress Party wanted one to go even further in structural policy, especially in the case of the smallest vessels. One even said that the structural quota arrangements were to ‘apply to all categories of length within the coastal fishing fleet and not only to the two highest length groups’. It is my opinion that if the Advance Party had been able to see through its vision, we would have had a much smaller chess fleet than the one we have today, and we would have been able to see the end of that fleet. Is the point of view of the Progress Party in structuring vessels below 15 metres, pure populism, or is it real policy? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e258	If that's what the representative Breck says – that if the smallest coastal fleet had been structured in 2005, you would have had fewer vessels – that means that what the government is doing today is a structure for fewer vessels. So here, maybe the representative Breck should think about it. When we supported the Bondevik II government in 2005, it was based on the need to reduce overcapacity. In reality, an overall industry also agreed that it was necessary to do some work in order to achieve profitability — and to reduce the overcapacity at the time. This we were also positive to when the government presented its structural message in ours. But when we get so many shots – so many warnings – about structuring for ships less than 15 meters, we, as politicians in the Progress Party, think it is important to listen to those who make that kind of argument. We take them into account by asking for more time before we conclude, and by getting this question resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e267	The representative of Korsberg believes that the entire financial industry is concerned that the system of the everlasting quotas will be brought to an end. I am not surprised that a bank will have as long as possible security for its loans. With regard to previous unit allowances granted for 13 years or for 18 years — and also for others — there has been no problem in obtaining funding for boats and equipment, if otherwise there are normal conditions. After a study trip to Iceland, we know, for example. that Glitnir Bank says to them it's okay. Most of the loans they give to fishing fleets are between 10 and 15 years old. When the Progress Party regrets this so much, will I ask: is the Progress Party most concerned with the concerns of the financial industry, or are they concerned about creating a political space for action by changing the system of the eternal allowances to 25 years for those who have been allocated these quotas earlier and to 20 years for new allocations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e276	What we are most concerned about is the many thousands of jobs that will be put at risk, whether they are at sea or on land. These jobs are to be financed: some have to finance them. When we dealt with the structural issue, we received clear warnings in the hearing about the policy pursued by the Government, both in terms of retrospectiveness and in terms of the structural length of the quotas that will be allocated. So there's someone who's going to finance them. And if there's no one who's funding what's going on in the fishing industry, you really don't have a fishing industry. Then you would lose hundreds — perhaps thousands — of jobs. It's the coastal workplaces that worry us first and foremost. And then when key actors, who are going to finance this, come with so clear warnings, we think that's all reason to listen to exactly them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e281	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e284	If we disregard the government's introduction of the NOx tax, this notification is the biggest and most important fisheries policy issue we have to deal with during this period. This is a matter that will have consequences for industry for years to come, at least until 2009. It is almost two years since the Government announced full stop in the structuring of the fishing fleet and that it would bring down a so-called rapid-working sample, the Structure Selection. The committee has been working for almost a year. In addition, the government has spent almost a year getting the matter through in Stortinget. That means that half the accumulation period has agreed to decide on this matter. During this period, the framework conditions of the fishing industry have been unexplained and unforeseeable. The fishing industry needs above all predictability. Then it is unfortunate that the government parties today push the matter through in Stortinget without lifting a finger to achieve a settlement that could stand firm beyond this downtime. The right has listened to the industry’s need for stable framework conditions. We have agreed on several occasions to make a broad settlement. We have written letters to the Government and offered adjustment of key principles in our own policy to give the fishing industry a broad deal. But conflict within the government – including in this case – never became a real process between the government parties and the opposition in the Stortinget. The opposition was, in effect, only invited to vote in favour of the Government's proposal. As a result, the government has spent half the time looking for its own policies and failed to ensure longer predictability with today’s decisions than until 2009. I therefore fully agree with Mr Nilsen in the Fiskarlag as in the Fiskarbladet on 2 June asks about the purpose behind this whole process. The profitability of the Norwegian fishing industry is generally good, although it varies from fishing to fishing and between industry and fleet. Employment has increased in recent years. Seafood industry had a record year in 2006, with DKK 35.6 billion in exports. Fisheries represent about half of this. The efforts of many small and medium-sized enterprises across the coast generate these revenues. In many coastal communities, these enterprises are central to employment and housing. Stable policy framework conditions are essential for business operators to invest in vessels and increase their quota base in the million class. Large investments to be financed and defended financially over time must have a longer time horizon than a major period. In the past, there was a possibility of structuring into several fleet groups to ensure profitability. A modern fleet provides recruitment and a more robust settlement along the coast. The right is critical for the Government to halt the use of the structural quota system from 20 October 2005. The scheme was stopped for nearly two years, with an alarming and partly false justification for the lack of legitimacy of the fishing industry. The time after the structural freeze has shown – among others. through the involvement of industry, the debate in the media and in the work of the Structural Committee – that a global industry has supported the fisheries policy under the leadership of the previous government and that of changing governments before it has been in place. An entire industry has therefore had to wait with necessary investments and strategic decisions because of a matter that has been unsolved internally in the red-green government for almost two years. It is then with great wonder that, after almost two years of reflection and debate between the government parties, it is now concluded that around the same structural arrangements that were stopped in 2005 will start up again. They are even to be expanded! For those who remember the election campaign in 2005, the violent attacks on the structuring of parts of today's government party, this becomes a very strange turnaround. In this setting, in fact, all the parties on the Stortinget, including the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, establish that the principle of buying and selling allowances through so-called structuring is an appropriate instrument to increase the profitability of the fleet. This is a very important recognition that the Right fully supports. Although the Right wants to go further, it is good to finally reach consensus around the main direction and recognise the need for structuring in the fishing industry. The right is also satisfied that the Government proposes that a vessel be able to be structured as low as 11 metres, and the right will support this proposal. It is important that this group also has the same opportunities as the larger groups have had to increase their profitability. In view of the fact that the Centre Party, SV and parts of the Workers' Party have had a tough resistance to structuring as a tool until the 2005 elections, there must be more in the camp that has really seen the light during these two years of structural freeze. Nevertheless, some elements have been weakened in relation to the scheme that was stopped in 2005. The consequences of tying the length of structural quotas to 20 years, as proposed by the Government, include: that companies with a low allowance base will experience significant fluctuations in the allowance base when the time period for the structural quota is over and the allowance shall be re-allocated in the pool. On the other hand, the Right is in favour of the Government introducing tax reliefs to structural fishing boat owners by receiving tax deductions as vessel quotas are depreciated. The main organisation of the financial industry was clear about the uncertainty it creates to introduce a 20-year time limit when they were at consultation in Stortinget. The time limit on structural allowances, as proposed by the Government, with a setback to the Group will not result in greater democratic control or less privatisation of the allowances. The government's arrangement is only about how the allowances should be distributed within an already closed group. This shows that the government parties are largely engaged in rhetorical and ideological misrepresentation of their own and the principle position of others in the fisheries policy. There shall be no more fish in the Community of the re-allocation of allowances from one vessel in 20 years' time to other vessels in the same group. The right therefore believes that the position of the Bondevik II Government that structured quotas should be time-limited is a more optimal position and should be continued as a Norwegian fisheries policy. Furthermore, the Government proposes to lower the quota ceiling in the coastal fleet, towards large parts of the industry’s perception. Lower quota ceilings will weaken the basis for profitability and the ability of coastal fleets to renew. The right considers that there should be a cap on allowances but does not support lowering of the limits. Perhaps the most serious thing in this case is that the government proposes that structural quotas purchased with a time-limited duration and structural quotas that have been delimited with a curtailment up to 40 p.m. are now retroactively limited to 25 years. Thus, the government changes the rules of the game along the way, and all those who have made large investments based on previous decisions feel led away. In the evening post on 4 June, we can read that a dozen actors are notifying lawsuits against the State because they believe that the proposal is unconstitutional. For the Right, this is not primarily about jus, but about the fact that the population should be able to expect that when the Stortinge makes a decision, it will not be retroactive when it changes. How are enterprises to make large investments when, on the next day, the assumptions for the entire investment base can be changed? The Government has not made any concrete proposals on changes to or winding up the district quota system. All experience suggests that the scheme has failed. The scheme is unpopular in industry and helps to reduce the profitability of those who have to issue allowances under this scheme. A rapid closure of the district quota system is therefore, in the Right’s view, a good contribution to ensuring light in coastal buildings. In the Communication, the Government states that a stable distribution between vessel groups is a fundamental prerequisite for structural measures to have the desired effect. This principle fully agrees with the right, and we agree with that in the setting. On the other hand, the Right is critical that, contrary to this principle, the Government has distributed new allowances in the Industrial Radiation Group for the removal of beam trawl quotas. If we are to sum up the fisheries policy after half-way work by the government of Stoltenberg II, we are left with a discarded structural freeze of almost two years, with framework conditions being changed retrospectively, with the introduction of an unnecessarily burdensome NOx tax, with a non-functioning district quota system, with a debate on rigid supply conditions and with a fishing industry which is increasingly discriminated against by a net pay regime for a competing shipping industry. In addition, in the revised budget, the Government is in the process of seizing half of the industry’s own research fees after pressure from the Bondelag. In my opinion, this has become a series of small and large faults, which would have been largely avoided if the government councils and parties had taken the time to engage in dialogue and cooperation with the fishing industry. I think the fishing industry deserves a better treatment of the government, which claims that the marine industries are among the country's five most important industries in Norway. There was broad support in the fisheries industry for the fisheries policy managed by the Bondevik II Government. A good dialogue with industry is central to shaping a forward-looking and stable fisheries policy. In conclusion, I would like to address the right-wing proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e341	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e347	The previous government changed the 2005 regulations on buying and selling quotas without going the way about Stortinget. I record that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Progress Party in the setting wrote that they were some in this, and that there was no need for treatment in the Stortinget. The changes led to the most capitalist operators in the fishing industry being able to buy allowances for eternity, and at prices that only the fewer had the possibility to join. Fortunately, this is being changed, but I confirm that the Right is still stuck in its policy. I'd like to ask Right if they can explain why they think it's right that only the most wealthy in the sea and coastal fishing fleet should be able to own the fishing rights in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e356	I would first like to say that the fisheries policy of the previous government was well anchored in the Storting and fisheries industries. This government's fisheries policy is anchored in a marginal majority in the United Kingdom, but not in the fishing industry. In the case of fixed-term allowances, as the representative Eldegard asks, I think it's a very strange argument when it's such that once an allowance is limited to 20 years or 25 years, it's suddenly part of the community's property, while if it's time-limited, it's a privatized quota. The reality is that all vessel quotas currently in the Norwegian fishing industry are initially time-limited. Those that are now time-limited are re-allocated to a group of other allowance holders. So these allowances are never within the community. Making a big ideological case out of this in relation to the government parties' reluctance to privatization, I think, must be based on a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e363	Today, there is full access for two ship owners to cooperate, in such a way that they both participate – first on one boat, then on the other boat – and thus cancel the quotas. So they can join forces to catch the fish. Then they get the safety that lies in being two on board a boat, instead of being alone – in all kinds of weather. The right now proposes the introduction of a co-fishing system as a separate scheme. Then I would like to ask the representative Hansen: is it so that the Right does not see that it can mean that young people who board small boats as a crew can lose an arena for recruitment to the profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e370	Recruitment to the fishing profession is important, although it has obviously become quite capital-intensive to start from scratch. This is right-wing, and in the setting we have underlined the need for, for example: to put in place recruitment quotas, which we record that the government parties have so far not been willing to accept. In the case of a joint fishing system, we believe that it is fully compatible with a new recruitment policy, and do not see that it will hinder recruitment to the fishing profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e377	The right criticises the government parties for not being willing to settle the issue of structural policy. The question might as well be put back: What has the Right Party contributed to a settlement? They have not been interested in having a discussion on the question of privatisation of fish resources. In many contexts, the Right stresses that they agree that fishing resources are a Community resource. I have to ask the Right: what does the Right mean by that, when, at the same time as they defend the continuation of eternal quotas for former structural quotas, they defend a privatisation policy? It is not so unexpected, of course, that they defend the privatisation policy of the former government. My question is: does not the representative Torbjørn Hansen see that when the Right is in favour of eternal quotas and privatisation, is this contrary to the principle of Community resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e386	As I said in my speech, the Right has been very concerned about ensuring a broad parliamentary basis in this matter, not because we are particularly in agreement with the government parties, but because we see it is important for the fishing industry. For this reason, the right has, among other things: sent a letter to the Minister for Fisheries where we have offered to negotiate in order to arrive at a parliamentary settlement, and we have also had contact in the course of the debate to see if there was a basis for such negotiations. I record with considerable disappointment that at no time has there been any access to processes to find such a parliamentary basis. This means that the predictability of what we are adopting today has a potential date stamping to 2009. As regards the issue of the privatisation of allowances, time-limitedness and time-limitedness, I would like to say that it is rather strange that the representative Breck believes that time-free allowances are privatisation, while fixed-term allowances to 25 years that go back to the same fishermen are not privatisation. I have great problems seeing the fundamental and ideological difference in it. We have also offered to discuss different arrangements that have a time-limited effect, in order to arrive at a settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e393	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e396	In St.meld. No 21 for 2006-2007, the structural policy for the fishing fleet, is early on in the introduction: ‘The structural quota system is basically simple; the operator of two vessels may, under certain conditions, merge the allowances and fishing both allowances with one vessel, in some cases after a certain curtailment.’;» All right. I must say that I do not think this at all in the bottom and reason is simple. The government sowed a big news and reaped a storm. Storm has been, and at least some of the members of the Business Committee have been standing in this storm throughout the winter of the fall. It has often tempted to seek refuge – to say so. I have no problem realizing that this storm came, I had expected it. But the fact that it became so strong has surprised me a little. I expected it because the structural policy literally intervenes directly into the food barrel of many, many people. The government is now carrying out a very demanding balancing between the wishes and demands of the various actors. We know that chess fishermen want something quite different than the shipowners on the big boats, and we know that the employees of the land-based industry have completely different needs and wishes than those hired as crews on the boat with lots. First of all, the government has determined with this message that it should not be possible for anyone to own a fixed share of it at any time. The fishing resources are common property, including: through the Participant Act, fishermen have the competence to manage this resource on behalf of the Community. Management shall be carried out with great respect for the natural resource and fishermen shall be required to maintain a balanced biological production. Those who have their profession at sea must play with nature. This trust is not shared with anyone at all for eternity. In St.meld. No 21 states that no one shall have everlasting quotas. I'm very pleased with that. As has been mentioned before, the Bondevik II government had a different view of this issue. As suggested in today's vote, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left continue to believe that structured quotas will continue to apply forever. Such privatisation of common resources is incompatible with SV’s policy. As I see it, it is also not very wise, considering that we are dealing with vulnerable ecosystems. The starting point for SV is that we are people who have to adapt to the nature of this question, not the other way around. That means we have to have the political space that we are now clearing up. Control of fishing resources and their fair distribution is essential for SV. In order to limit the disadvantages to those who invested in the new ‘any’ allowances from the Bondevik II Government, the Government has met them by facilitating them to hold the allowances for 25 years from 2008. New allowances shall last for 20 years. Structural quotas for the coastal fleet were introduced in 2003 with effect from 2004. It was then possible to structure up to three times the vessel's own quota in each fishing vessel in which it participated. It is a strong structure with which the government parties have not been satisfied. We therefore propose that, for vessels over 15 metres in length, only twice the length of the vessel can be structured in each fishing operation if quotas are allocated both in cod fishing and in pelagic fishing. The current quota cap of three times the vessel's own quota is only maintained for vessels that either structure in cod fishing or pelagic fishing. SV is also pleased that the Government will now continue to work on issues of limitations in ownership concentration. Quota concentration at vessel level is limited by the quota ceilings that we are now lowering, but since one owner may have several vessels, it is important to consider whether there is a need for rules limiting the quota concentration at owner level. It is also gratifying for SV to say that the government should now prioritise the work on recruitment very high. Parallel work is being started in three areas: one is the school system, where the challenge is how the school system can contribute with knowledge and motivation for crew recruitment. School quotas and apprenticeship quotas are going to be central here. The other area is linked to the competition for labour, where it is important to identify what affects the framework conditions for this competition. The third area concerns the possibility of establishing itself as a vessel owner and where the Government says they should look at recruitment quotas. We're very pleased with that. The group of boats between 10 and 15 metres has used a limited conditioning system. They have had access to the operating system, and the operating system is, as we know, a clean lease arrangement, where one with an allowance for a proper settlement can sit on a holiday plane to the South and discard money for his right. That arrangement now chooses the Government to wind up, and I am very pleased with that. But we have boats between 10 and 15 meters that have used this system. When the operating system is gone, we now provide a weak structure for the vessels between 11 and 15 metres. Each vessel may structure two allowances in addition to its own quota and thus the structural quota system could be used by approximately. 600 vessels. Allowances may be retained for 20 years and then returned to the group. I have to say what it is: SV has not primarily wanted to structure the fleet between 11 and 15 meters, because this is a fleet that has had good profitability, high equity and low debt. They have fished close to land and have employed four times more people per year. kg of fish consumed than e.g. the cod trawl fleet. Furthermore, this fleet does not pull such heavy tools, so the requirement for engine performance has been reduced, and therefore also the fuel consumption per person. kg of fish consumed were much lower than in the large vessels. In cooperation with the other two government parties, we have negotiated the solution that is on the table today. Given the totality, SV is satisfied with what we have achieved. We believe that by 2009 we have gained sufficient knowledge to evaluate the scheme and see if adjustments need to be made. Of course, this is very important, because we know how important this fleet is to the districts. We've also been happy to have the opportunity to stop structuring upwards. This means that the fire wall, as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur, will prevent the largest vessels from taking a greater share of the resources from the coastal fleet. SV is pleased that there is agreement that the structural arrangements should contribute to activity throughout the coast while at the same time ensuring a modern, varied and profitable fleet. My and SV's wish is that the schemes that we now recommend to Stortinget to give its support will help secure the fish as a common resource, which many in this country will have the opportunity to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e439	I will start by reading from SV's batch program: ‘SV will work to increase the influence of regional elected bodies on the development of fisheries.’ It also states that SV believes that: ‘The factory jet fleet shall be phased out over a period of 10 years and the resources shall be transferred to the coastal fleet.’;» [[...]] It goes on to say: ‘SV will transfer resources from the seagoing to the coastal fleet initially by catching 75 % of the whitefish from the coastal fleet’.» In addition, it says: ‘SV is in the case of youth recruitment quotas. The purchase and sale of fish quotas leads to a reduction in the profitability of fisheries.» It also says: ‘SV will have a prohibition on the sale of allowances’.» Then is my question, since SV is in government: what is left of SV's fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e471	In its party programme, SV has said what the representative of Korsberg referred to, and that is the primary policy of SV. Today SV is in government with two other parties. We've worked as hard as we could to get our things through. We have not achieved everything we wanted, it is clear, and I have made that clear in my introduction. The biggest challenge was structuring between 11 and 15 meters, but we believe that by entering the firewall that we have deployed, we ensure at least that there will be fewer resources going out of the coastal fleet and across the ocean fleet. We're assuming that we're going to have more and more impact on our policies as it turns out there's lucky grip we're taking. Once the eternal allowances are returned to the community, we have come one step closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e476	It is with considerable wonder that I have followed the SV's manoeuvre in the fisheries policy, and how the party has despondently tried to escape the criminal seas of criticism from the central industry. I cannot see that SV has taken the announced settlement, either with privatisation or structuring, rather on the contrary. The party appears today, to the surprise of many voters, I believe, as a clear defender of structural policy, a structural policy party was totally opposed less than two years ago. The lot now even goes further in structuring than the previous government. I wonder if the SV representative can explain what kind of assumptions are now so fundamentally changed that it can justify the reversal of the structural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e483	The representative, Aspaker, is wondering if we can escape the criminal seas. I believe that we can stand firm in this. We have managed to avoid privatisation. That's the main point. We've been fighting intensely to get the eternal quotas, which the representative's party was at the ready of the last government, liquidated. It's a big victory for SV. I believe that we have had a very good compromise with the other two government parties that we can live with, and that we will recommend the Stortinget to vote for today. I have, in the same way as the representative points out, been in charge of SV's policy when I'm SV's. Governments cooperate, and then good solutions are found. I think we've got that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e490	It is no wonder that we, who took part in the 2003 structural debate and experienced fishing spokespersons in SV, Åsa Elvik, and her strong criticism of the Christian People's Party and of the previous government, are amazed today. Åsa Elvik concluded that what was carried out in 2003 was a gigantic fisheries policy experiment. And then we experience that SV continues the experiment – with some adaptations – but it has yet to be said – extended, as several replicators have now said, to vessels between 11 and 15 meters. We then of course wonder what happened to SV. I understand that you say you are in government and have to make compromises. But my question is: is SV now agreeing to continue a gigantic fisheries policy experiment, an experiment which is almost similar to what the then fisheries minister Ludvigsen did?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e497	The representative Jan Sahl says we're surprised by this experiment. SV is responsible, and it may surprise many. The Swedish Government has taken that responsibility and has to cooperate with several other parties and arrive at good compromises. We have seen that what was accomplished in the last period – the policy of Ludvigsen – was a very strong structuring, which was to go into eternity. If the representative Sahl had joined the debate, he would have realized that we have gone in to tighten up considerably. There are only two quotas in each of the fisheries that can now be structured for new boats over 15 metres. And for boats less than 15 meters, it's also a very careful and weak structuring that we're going to follow closely, and that we're going to evaluate when it's been three years. I think we're now going to get a much better result than what we got with the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e506	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e509	In the red-green rhetoric of the fisheries policy, it has been almost a mantra that the introduction of the structural arrangements for the sea fishing fleet and the coastal fishing fleet in 2003 and 2005 represented a breach of a previous tradition, etc. According to the same rhetoric, today's government would create peace in troubled waters by suing for a wide anchored settlement in this matter. It is right that the structural arrangements have created debate, both in the industry, in the Stortinget and in local communities along the coast. But it has to be allowed to say that the most disturbing color in this matter is between the group offices of the government party on the Stortinget and between the government offices a few quarters further away. If the goal was really to get a broad connection to the drug use in the fishing industry, the result, even with near-sighted red-green eyes, must be called a failure. The largest business organization, the Fiskerlage, has learned that the structures introduced by the previous government were wanted. It would have been better if the Fish team had seen that they were carried on. The decisions taken today will not just meet with the cheers from that team. It is easy to understand that waves have gone high internally in the government party in this matter. Two of the government parties announce directly in their batch program that they will terminate all arrangements that involve the purchase and sale of allowances. It has now been concluded that the structural arrangements are necessary both to adapt the fishing capacity of the fishing fleet to the nutrient base and to ensure a better operating economy. For the sake of both sustainability and responsible management, I am of course pleased that there is now a union agreement that structural arrangements must be maintained. That this involves a powerful turnaround for several of the red-greens, we note with interest. But the surprise goes almost to infidelity when I now see that the Center Party and SV believe that the structuring of vessels under 15 meters in the coastal fishing fleet should also be introduced. The cooperation management never came up with any suggestions to introduce structuring here. Not enough for the government party to collect well to carry forward a structure as a tool in the ship groups where such arrangements have already been established, an extension also extends the structure to apply to new ship groups. With this presented, at least the two junior parties in the government constellation must have come so far from their original position that it is now impossible to see any relationship between the party position and the government position. From the Christian People's Party's side, you're smart. We are on what was introduced by Bondevik II. There is no compelling reason to extend the scope of the structures now. Here you can wait until we know more about the effects of the already signed structure. Many smaller communities have been sceptical about the consequences of introducing structuring into this part of the fleet now. We choose to listen to them. Fishing industry is an important industry. It means a lot to the employment and value creation along the coast. I would really wish it had been possible to find together in a broad settlement in this matter. The industry had a sense of urgency. Decisions that we are making today have a date stamp: best before September 2009. This raises serious doubts as to whether the fishing industry is really getting the stability and safety that is so important and that the industry really is. However, one aspect is important to continue: there is a broad consensus that the allocation of resources between vessel groups should remain stable. It's an important premiss and an important signal. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress that we are open to compromise and a broad compromise. We did not silence the ultimatum. But when the government party's message is that not a comma in the structure message can be changed, the starting point for compromise is gone. Then it is natural that the Christian People's Party stands at its primary position, as they are expressed today. The Government Party has chosen to place the ultimate emphasis on maintaining its internal, fragile compromise, which in this case can well be presented as a truce agreement, at least out of this large-scale period. There is apparent tranquillity in the government, but not along the coast. With this I address the proposals in the committee position that the Christian People's Party has seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e537	The representative of Sørfonn has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e542	I have noticed that the Christian People's Party as a member of the Bondevik II government, and as the representative himself explained in his contribution, carried out a restructuring of the fishing fleet that was quite dramatic, without presenting the matter to the Stortinget – a privatisation of our common fishing resources. With a pen stroke, the allowances were made forever. Two years later we see that the Christian People's Party is heading towards structuring for vessels less than 15 meters. Can the representative Sørfönn elaborate this shift – i.e. the link between ship structuring above and below 15 metres – more closely? Does he understand that someone perceives this so that the party has now switched on a more populist line?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e549	There must be a misunderstanding here, for the Bondevik administration never suggested structuring for vessels from 11 to 15 metres. It is right to put in place structures for seagoing fishing fleets. Our argument for that was quite a deal. We need to structure both to conserve resources and to obtain the necessary ignition for fishing. So we said, and we're still saying, structuring is an important and certainly useful tool, but at the same time it might be good to evaluate the effect of structuring before moving on to other fleet groups. In the case of vessels from 11 to 15 metres, request that the operating arrangements be passed on. It's the exact same thing that Bondevik II went in for, but we've tightened it up, so one gets away with what might be called abuse of these operating arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e558	Very well known, the Christian People's Party has programmed that they want to consider a system of repatriation of allowances to the community. It was done in the Grand Election Programme for the current Grand Election Period. Former Prime Minister Bondevik emphasised this very clearly in an election debate on Husøya on Senja in August prior to the last major elections. Today, we experience that the Christian People's Party unequivocally defends eternal structural quotas through the setting that is to be voted on today. This has also been an indispensable requirement, as we have experienced, in the discussions we have had with the Christian People's Party on the structural policies of the future. My question to the representative of Sørfonn is: does not the representative of Sørfonn see that the Christian People's Party's programme to investigate a system for the fall-back of structural quotas is contrary to what one today is in favour of, to continue eternal quotas? How can it now be possible for the Christian People's Party to comply with its own programme formula to investigate a system of discards linked to fishing quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e568	There's two things to answer to this. Firstly, the fact that one has entered for time-limited quotas does not mean that there is a privatisation of fish resources. The Christian People's Party's starting point is that the fishing resources are to be managed by the community at its best. The hues for the duration of these quotas are a very different matter. But when I said that, I said in my post – and I like to admit that – that we did more attempts on the way to finding compromise solutions that could give other results than what we see today. When what Gullvåg's representative called the "extensive hand", but which was perceived by us as a fist, was present, we found that it was not possible to reach a compromise. That's why we're now dealing with what Bondevik II went into, and we think it's the most tidy thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e577	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e580	Today, we are discussing one of the most important fisheries policy issues in this bigotry period. It is a political responsibility to establish the framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry and it is a political responsibility to strike the balance between business and social considerations. The structural issue is about what the fishing fleet of the future will look like – its size, composition, activity – and not least where it will be located. It is about ensuring a profitable fishing fleet that creates activity and employment along the coast, and is not centralized to a few large coastal municipalities. The government’s proposal balances various considerations. The aim is to provide the industry with stable, predictable and long-term framework conditions. Structural policy is essentially about the legitimacy of the whole fishing industry. The changes in structural policy made by the previous government — mainly the introduction of eternal allowances, combined with an increasingly open trading of allowances and rights — gave rise to an increasing centralisation and concentration of power. It was clear to all that one was only at the beginning of a process that would lead to a large-scale privatisation of Community resources of enormous economic value. In addition, when the policy of the former government was not founded and anchored in an ordinary deleveraging process, it was necessary to set in motion the process that is currently receiving its preliminary finale with this deleveraging process. The decisions taken today will provide a different fishing industry than the Bondevik II Government has been working for. We are completely reversing important parts of the previous government's fisheries policy. Those who claim otherwise are unable to see the clear differences in principle and ideology that are now reflected in a new fisheries policy. A large majority of this room emphasises that fishing resources are a Community resource which in the future will continue to belong to Norwegian society, not to individuals or individual shipping companies. The privatisation policy, which was accelerated by the policy of former Svein Ludvigsen, must therefore be reversed. So it is said to be no to eternal quotas. The structural quotas shall be returned to the group after 20/25 years and the industry shall be allowed to depreciate the structural quota costs over the same period of time, respectively. One shall not underestimate the economic impact this may have on industry in the future. For the centre party, some of the most enjoyable thing today is that a clear majority in this room say no to the additional taxation of the fishing industry through a resource tax. This is done despite the clear recommendation of some theoreticians and organisations to link resource taxes to eternal allowances. This now avoids an endless structural pressure, which would be devastating for the fishing industry we know today. The rate of the resource shall continue to be charged through a larger fleet, and not least through activity along the whole coast. Furthermore, it is said that more careful structuring than the Ludvigsen introduced for the coastal fleet, both below and above 15 metres, is achieved through a lower quota ceiling. I would like to stress, in relation to the debate we have had today, that the operating arrangements implemented by Ludvigsen involve a tougher structuring pressure than the one adopted today for boats between 11 and 15 metres. In the case of the Centre Party, it has been a main objective to slow down the large-scale concentration of ownership of the resources that the previous Government provided. Otherwise, important milestones are the need to investigate further limitations of ownership in the industry and supplementation quotas and re-recruitment. An overall committee even points out that new recruitment needs to be followed up in the framework of structural policy, and that is important and good. The structural policy now adopted in the Grand Duchy is a good compromise which balances various considerations. The opening of a very cautious structure for the coastal fleet, both above and below 15 metres, is part of it and must be viewed against the decision to refuse eternal quotas and that we have put a final stop to the introduction of resource interest rates. The balance of the proposal is also reflected in the decision not to add up to a redistribution between the groups and that the structural gains will remain in the individual groups and thus contribute to the stability and predictability of the investments made and the future. For vessels less than 11 metres, one hopes for a freer adaptation, but it is important to stress that it can never be considered to allow the operators of this group to have an opening for free fishing, irrespective of the total quantity and distribution between groups. In the further investigation of ownership restrictions, this is very important for meeting future pressures on allowance and owner concentration. On the part of the Centre Party, we would like to stress that we want to review and tighten up the possibilities of owning both within the sea fishing fleet, in the pelagic sector, in the trawl industry and in the coastal fleet. This applies to majority and minority shares as well as to the limitation of ownership between the coastal fishing fleet and the sea fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e611	I had the pleasure of reading in the Central Party Party program, and I want to refer to a little bit of what it says there. ‘The centre lot is a principal opponent of negotiable allowances and fishing fleet rights. Structural developments both in the coastal fleet and in the sea fishing fleet have now gone so far that there is a danger to important coastal fishing environments. The centre party wishes to stop this development and will endeavour to liquidate the possibilities for the purchase and sale of allowances and rights.» It also states that the Centre Party will liquidate the possibility of selling allowances and rights in order to avoid uncontrolled dismantling of the fishing fleet. It is tempting to ask how much impact the Centre Party has had in the context of the structural communication. Does the Center Party mean the same thing now as they meant when they adopted their party program?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e623	It's good that the Progress Party is involved in the Center Party's program. Much of what's in the Center Party's program is set out in the Soria Moria statement – so here he has a lot to learn. I would like to stress that the structural policies that are now being adopted will impose stronger restrictions on structuring, and it will provide a stronger opportunity to avoid the privatisation of fishing resources than is provided for in the programme of the Centre Party. The reason for this, which is not defined in our programme, is that we now have the opportunity to bring the eternal allowances back to the community, and that we also avoid resource interest taxes. We then get a lower structuring press for boats less than 15 meters than the previous government introduced through the operating system. All in all, this implies a high degree of connection to the programme of the Centre Party, although the arrangements of the individual schemes are somewhat different.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e630	So this case has evolved into a Norwegian championship in spin-offs and lifting breaks from the red-green government parties. The centre party, which has previously been the object of structuring, today appears to be a new-freest member of what they previously strongly opposed. Is it true, then, that the Central Party has seen the light of the fisheries policy when it wants to structure down to 11 metres? It has now also become very clear to the world that the operators of fisheries can neither rely on the Central Party's laws in the election campaign nor on decisions not being taken retrospectively. How does the Central Party think that businessmen should be able to think in the long term when the government and the Central Party policies are so short-sighted that the policy has expired on the date before we come halfway through the parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e637	What Mr Aspaker is not able to see is the overall coherence of the structural policy that is now being adopted. As I have underlined in my post, and also earlier in the line change, the overall picture will now mean that you get a better situation than what is laid down in the program of the Centre Party, where we only had the conditioning system as a structural instrument directly. So today we are given the opportunity to have a lower structuring pressure in the coastal fleet – also below 11 metres – than the party of the representative of Aspaker introduced in the previous period. We avoid eternal allowances, for which the Party of the Right has been strongly involved, which means a large degree of privatisation of fishing resources. We're avoiding a resource tax, which I'm glad that the right party is also joining now. It is important to avoid future structural pressures in the fishing industry. Perhaps the most comprehensive and decisive part of this decision is that we are now avoiding the extra structuring pressure that a resource rate tax opening could have resulted in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e642	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e645	For the Left, it is important to have a competitive national and international fishing industry, that we ensure fishing and activity along the whole coast, that we get safe and secure jobs for fishermen, and not least that we manage fish resources in a way that makes us have fish in the future. This I believe most people can join, and it is therefore a pity that we should not have a broad agreement on a new structural message. When the representative of Gullvåg says that we could get it, it was just to join the presentation that had been submitted from the government party, I have to say that it is not a deal. But we understand that it was so broken from the government party's side that it was not possible to get any negotiations on it. In order to obtain a competitive industry that can both compete in domestic recruitment competition and compete for price and quality in the international market, the framework conditions for the industry must be such that the owners will invest, such as managers in all other industries. It is therefore necessary to be able to plan operations and investments on the basis of a safe operational basis, which in the case of fishermen is that they must know at least how much fish they are allowed to take up from the sea in the future. This also determines whether the banks are willing to provide long-term loans for investment. The quota system has arrived because the big community will make sure that no more fish than the resource can be fished. The structuring was introduced because the big community wanted private fishing to take place within the total amount that, according to the marine scientists’ recommendations, is justified, at the same time as overfishing. The structure within the sea fishing fleet also means that the farms will have a smooth and stable supply of raw materials. Structure is not something that the fishermen themselves and the fleets have robbed themselves of, so one can get the impression of many times. If the structuring gains are too low for single layers, structuring will stop, and it will no longer be a contribution to prevent overcapacity. Left says that the best way to ensure good resource management with opportunities for investments that provide modern and secure jobs is time-limited structural quotas, as was the case with the previous government. This also gave way to innovation and innovation in the fishing fleet – we saw – something that Norway is totally dependent on to have an industry that claims to be international and secures activity along our coast. We know from experience in both fisheries and other industries that businesses that do not have a large enough nutrient base and stable framework conditions do not have renewable energy in themselves and are gradually being removed. That is why we believe that, for the whole of the coast, time-limited quotas are important. We are also in favour of structuring boats between 11 and 15 meters with the same foundation as for the other group. This group also needs a better nutritional basis. The ruling claims that they have a legal basis for making the already-allocated time-limited structural quotas time-limits. It might be legal. But this means that at least the Left is not moral, nor is it practical and economic. Changing the levels of play after the start of the game is putting behind the lights of fishermen who have gone into action with significant resources in the belief of a stable fisheries policy. On the left, the Government supports setting quota ceilings to limit the quota that can be allocated to a single vessel in fishing for each species of fish. The quota ceiling also helps us get a large and decentralised fishing fleet. And just like the law of participants, which ensures that concessions are to be distributed to active fishermen, Left says that the necessary frameworks are given to prevent Norwegian fishing from being carried out by an elite on land and run by money movers. The fact that the shipowners are to decide on the construction and investment on board is, in the Left's view, also important for a modern and innovative industry. The left is strongly opposed to the district quota system, and we support the proposal to remove it now. Finally, I would like to point out the issue of resource allocation – I am a little concerned about the right-wing representative Kvalvik. It is important and decisive for peace and stability in the industry that the Government allows the current allocation of resources between the fleet groups and within the individual fleet groups to be fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e666	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e670	The representative made is understandably concerned with the distinction between fixed-term and perpetual allowances. But do I understand it now so that the representative Gerde really does not have a fundamental attitude to this question? Is it so to understand that it is actually and quite exclusively the length of the proposed structural period against which the Left is actually opposed? And then the next question is, if so, what does the representative think the desired compromise should contain?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e675	It is not a secret that the Left could have discussed a compromise that went along. Now, what we're essentially opposed to is that those who have already received a time-limited quota are going to get them. We are strongly opposed to that. The other thing we could be talking about is if the government party were willing to try to make a compromise. For us, the most important thing is that a fisheries policy is created that gives good and long-term guidance to those who are going to operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e680	Time-limited allowances – or what I call eternal allowances – give a willingness to invest, it is said in the post of the representative Gärde. At the same time, the left goes in to establish that the fishing resources are the community's resources. The left deepens it in its program and through the comments they are included in today's setting. My question to the representative Gerde is: Does the Left Party not see any contradiction between the continuation of an unlimited or permanent quota and the determination that the fishing resources belong to the community – or the group, if so? Doesn't the representative Gerde see that there's an obvious contradiction here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e687	It may almost seem like government parties are talking about private and public fishing. We've realized that there are private quotas, it's private fishing for quotas when the quotas are in private ownership. And there's only one distribution within the groups that is then the question. For us, it's important that those in this group know what they have to do for a long time, so that they can plan, get the economy on their legs, run the fishing and get a safe and strong nourishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e694	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e697	The Soria Moria Declaration provides clear guidance for the link between the Regional Policy of the Government and the Fisheries Policy. The value creation of our common fishing resources shall, as far as possible, benefit coastal communities dependent on fisheries. There are several ways to achieve this objective: universality, district quotas, the marine value creation programme and bet on fresh fish. But it is essential that we have a fishing fleet that contributes to employment across the coast in order to achieve our objectives. Our political mandate on the structural issue has been to find the right balance between the business economy on the one hand and social considerations on the other. When we took over the government offices, we put in place a structural break, and we put down the Structural Committee, which was given the task of promoting proposals to secure the fishing resources as common property, ensuring a fishing fleet that contributes to activity across the coast, while ensuring a modern, varied and profitable fishing fleet. These are also the main objectives of the Government's structural policy for the fishing fleet. The Structural Committee made several proposals on how to design the future structural policy to meet these objectives, and the Government carried out a comprehensive consultation round before we concluded and presented the Structural Communication in March. It's been, and it's still, a lot of commitment around structural policy. That is good, because both the case and the industry deserve attention. This is also something we've deliberately added up from the Government with the process we've been running. We have wanted to get rid of our views as much as possible, and so ensure that all aspects of structural policy were highlighted. Everyone who has wanted it has had the opportunity to express their opinion before the Government concluded. We have listened to business organisations, employees, municipalities, county councils and many others. The challenges have been to balance the different interests against each other and to counter the Government’s fisheries policy objectives. Fishing is a barrier along the coast, and our proposals provide the basis for both large and small fishing vessels to continue to have local anchoring and to be an active workplace in the future. The Government's willingness to change the fisheries policy in this area must be understood on the basis that fishing is the very bearer of the coastal settlement pattern. That's the way it should be in the future. The Structural Communication states that fishing resources are and must be the property of the community, which is to be exploited for the benefit of coastal fisheries-dependent communities. Our proposals ensure a stable and good framework for industry, and it is a sensible further development of the structural policy for which there was a cross-political agreement before 2003. I regret that the other parties insist on permanent structural quotas, and therefore have not been able to join the Government's proposals. So I've noticed the attention the committee has on recruiting in the fishing fleet. This is a work that the Government prioritises, and it is a problem we are going to tackle on a broad front, including an assessment of recruitment quotas and the importance of the school system for recruiting competent fleet crews. I would also refer to the rapporteur's statement on the Committee's position and the proposals recommended by the majority. They will of course be followed up by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e716	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e719	Research will be important for the fishing industry in the future. The Bondevik I Government examined the introduction of a R & D levy in 1998 and proposed the establishment of such a scheme was promoted by the Stoltenberg Government in 2000. A total increase joined the government's proposal. The size condition was that the industry itself should have full dispensation rights over these funds, and that these funds should not be used as a substitute for ordinary public funding for research and development. The size of the market placed a decisive emphasis on the industry itself wanting to introduce a R & D levy and on the agreement of the industry on the framework of the scheme. This has now been amended in the revised budget. Can the Council of State only ensure that the change made in the revision does not violate the conditions laid down by the Stortinget for the Research Fund of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e726	I may not see the whole link between NOFIMA and structural policy, but let me still answer the question. The NOFIMA case has been dealt with by both the previous government and the current government. The FHF, the research fund of the fisheries and aquaculture industries, is the one that manages the fee that this is about. They will also decide in the future how that money is to be used and the projects for which they are to be used. What we've said is that a share of that money is going to be channelled through the NOFIMA system. I am absolutely convinced that is a wise strategy to develop strong marine research institutes in Norway for the competitiveness of Norwegian fishing industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e733	The fishing industry now has two years of structural freezes. Today, we are dealing with framework conditions that are being changed retrospectively. We have experienced the introduction of an unnecessarily burdensome NOx tax, we have a district quota system that does not work, we have a debate on rigid delivery conditions, we have a fishing industry that is being discriminated against to an even greater extent through a net wage scheme for competing shipping, and we have revised proposals where the Government is to charge half of the fee paid by the fishing industry on a voluntary basis to a research fund, after pressure from the Bondelag. The structural communication is being adopted today without a broad parliamentary basis, despite the fact that the opposition has stretched out a hand in order to reach a political agreement on the framework conditions for the fishing industry. Does the Council not see that the fishing industry needs predictable framework conditions? And why do not the government parties have any willingness to reach a parliamentary agreement on the framework conditions for the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e743	I record that the Right says two completely different things in the setting and in the hall here today. It is said that the Government's proposal for a new structural policy is simply an adjustment to what the previous government stood for, while regretting very much that there has been no broad agreement on structural policy. If the Right believes that we have only proposed small adjustments, why is it so difficult for the Right to join our proposals? I also register that today's right is very concerned about settlement. The same willingness to settle was not present in the previous enlargement period, when the government used its majority in the United Kingdom to break with a long cross-political agreement on structural policy, which was agreed up to 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e751	The Council of State and the Christian People's Party are probably a few on at least two points, first, that the allocation of resources between the groups of vessels should be fixed, and second, that the important fishing industry is attenuating long-termity and robust framework conditions. An assertion for the latter is a broad agreement in Stortinget. From that point of view, I would like to ask the Council of State if it is in the process of doing so, the Swiss government parties have some good advice in their ears at Stortinget, just to contribute to a broad settlement in Stortinget – which unfortunately was not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e758	I think it would have been very good if the government parties and the Christian People's Party could come to an agreement in structural policy. I also believe that there should have been a basis for this in the light of the positions of the Christian People's Party in the previous magnificence period. In fact, the Christian People's Party was in a government that proposed a structural arrangement for ship groups between 10 and 15 metres. A consultation proposal was sent out in the summer of 2005. It was a scheme that would cover far more vessels, without a time limit for the allowances and with a significantly higher quota cap than we have proposed. That's why I think it should have been possible for the Christian People's Party to join our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e763	In the big message and in the government party comments, there are used hints indicating that the government wants the allocation of resources between fleet groups to be fixed. The issue of resource allocation has been the subject of a great deal of conflict between fishermen, but in recent years, there has been a kind of agreement between groups. Can the Council of State now assure us that the current allocation of resources between the fleet groups, and also within the individual fleet groups, is also consistent with the current government's fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e770	I would like to refer to the Storing Message, where we say that industry should be ensured stability and predictability in terms of the allocation of resources between the different quota groups. When it is said that the government must continue to have the freedom to take action, such as: When we took out beam trawl concessions and compensated for new concessions within the industry beam group, because we saw that the type of action was overall good for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e775	There's been a lot of talk about the previous period. Let me clear up a misunderstanding. It was not that the government of Bondevik had a majority in the Stortinge in the previous period, as the Council of State said earlier. In contrast, in the previous period — and this is also the case in this period — Finnmark County was opposed to coastal fleet congestion. According to the Storing Notice, it is also stated that, in particular, vessels below 15 metres must be protected against reductions in number. We have also heard in today's debate that both the representative Breck of the Central Party and the representative Kvalvik of SV have said that they have somehow been pressured into this in a compromise with the Workers' Party. When we then know that Minister of Fisheries Pedersen of the Workers' Party was formerly rapporteur in Finnmark and felt exactly the same in the previous period as the County Council in Finnmark thinks today, I wonder: who has changed the view on this matter? Obviously, there's no one.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e780	I will immediately give the representative Lien the right to the fact that the previous government did not have a majority. The party of progress was a party of support for that government and helped to put in place the structural arrangements that then came. I would also like to remind you of what the Progress Party agreed on in the previous period, namely that the structural quota scheme would apply to all the length groups within the coastal fleet and not only to the two highest length groups, that there would be an opportunity to exchange quotas between the different length groups and, as the Progress Party said, there would not be an artificial limit due to length. It would also remove any geographical restrictions on the aggregation of allowances within the structural quota system, which would remove the quota ceiling. On the same day as the Government presented its structural policy, 16 March of this year, the Progress Party sent out a press release stating that SV had been over-implemented in terms of its sarcromantic approach to the fisheries policy. In the period that has passed since 16 March, the Progress Party has turned around and opposed structuring in the group between 11 and 15 meters. It's in itself not alarming. We are used to the fact that the Progress Party often changes its mind. What is alarming is that you want an impact assessment. It would be very interesting to see an impact assessment of the proposals that the Progress Party made in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e792	I believe that a total increase, and this debate, too, is in agreement that the fishing industry is one of the most important industries we have in Norway. It is also one of the most forward-looking industries, if not the most forward-looking, that will give us well-being in the years to come. The international focus of this industry also provides Norway with significant knowledge and revenue. The knowledge of the industry on markets and quality assurance contributes to knowledge that can be used in other industries in Norway, both in those that are already internationally targeted and those that are more nationally targeted. Prior to the 2005 general election, the government parties, and in particular the Workers' Party, were very clear that a more active industrial policy should be pursued. It was said that in all policy areas, active enterprise policy should be the focus. There is no secret now that we are soon half-way through this process, that the active industrial policy of this government has been absent. The Party agrees that a more active industrial policy should be pursued. There has been a consensus between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, at least before the Grand Prix elections. But instead of pursuing an active industrial policy, the Government is leading a more confusing industrial policy for the whole of business. There is a significant split within government parties that contributes to this, but also a unclear industrial policy on the part of the Government. It has also been referred to in the current debate in reply to a number of party program formulations for several of the government parties, which say something different than what is the government's policy in this matter. It shows that one party in the government largely outruns two smaller partners, and I think that's probably a little lucky both for the policy that comes, and for the predictability of business policy, which is totally dependent on business. What are you going to do with an active industrial policy? The most important thing in an active industrial policy is that the state takes on the role of organiser, that the state is an active partner, and a partner that does not put obstacles in the way. The State shall be a partner to remove obstacles instead of creating new ones, a partner to reduce burdens in bureaucracy and in taxes and taxes. This also applies to the highest degree to the industry we are debating today, the fishing industry. This contrasts with what the rapporteur, Steinar Gullvåg, of the Workers' Party, stressed in the Government's fisheries policy. He has stated several times that the Government's fisheries policy leads to an ideological distinction. It is interesting that so far we have not heard the words ‘ideological distinction’ from the responsible Council of State in this area. Ideology of left radicalists in the government parties comes before what may be in the industry’s interest. That's interesting. That is clearly what should be the active industrial policy of this government. Resistance to so-called privatisation presupposes industrial predictability and job security in industry and coastal districts. That is clearly what Steinar Gullvåg means by ideological separation. In that case, I think a lot of people would have asked off this ideological distinction. One limits the ownership of the allowances in 20 years. It may be an ideological distinction, but companies require predictability. The economy requires predictability for those who want to invest in the industry in a long-term perspective. I believe that the conclusion of this debate is that the Government is pursuing an ideological, unpredictable policy in this area, as it is also doing in a number of other industrial policy areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e809	Today, we are dealing with the most important fisheries policy issue in this session, which is very important for the red-green parties. It's about our fishing resources. The starting point for the fisheries policy of the Government is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is decided that the value of our national fishing resources will benefit, as far as possible, coastal communities dependent on fishing. The goal is to brighten the houses along the coast! It is also important for the Workers' Party that we have a fishing industry with farm economic profitability both on the fishing side, in industry and in the aquaculture industry. We have rich natural resources here in the country. It gives us an advantage that we have to manage for our common good, and these resources we have to use in a good way. The fisheries sector is one of the most important industries in this country, providing jobs along the coast and large export revenues for our country – in fact, it is our largest renewable export product. We're managing a sea area six-seven times larger than the mainland. This gives us great possibilities, but it is also a great responsibility to ensure that fish stocks are managed in a sustainable way. Fishing has been the basis for value creation and settlement along our coast for hundreds of years, and it must also do so in the future. In order to ensure sound management, fishing industries need to change in line with developments elsewhere in society. Because although technological developments make it possible to store resources more efficiently, there is limited access to resources. Norway has reason to be proud of its history when it comes to fisheries management, which in contrast to many other countries have proved to be resilient. There's a lot of the horror examples of the opposite. The worst is from the coast outside Newfoundland in Canada at the Great Banks. 15–20 years ago, the largest migratory cod population in the world remained. Trawlers from all over the world at the city, and despite repeated protests from the coastal fishermen in Newfoundland, the world's jets were not stopped until the sea was black. The fish hasn't come back yet, 15 years later. The most important thing is to have an administration that doesn't result in what happened in Newfoundland happening again. There is a great political consensus about this in Norway today. Structural schemes are an important tool to influence the extent and distribution of activity in the Norwegian fishing industry. With the arrangements, vessels are sold and moved, enterprises are concentrated, workplaces are created or they disappear, both at sea and on land. It is a political responsibility to be attentive to this and to strike the right balance between business and societal considerations. This is about having large trawlers and coastal fishermen, and we need to find a balance between large owner concentrations and single operators. We also need to find schemes to collect and maintain resources, so that we get maximum value per. kilos of fish. This means that fish resources should not be owned by a few, such as the previous government, and as happens in Iceland. Fish have now been 'big business' and a case for bank, finance and large capital. The Icelandic fisheries policy has led to dramatic consequences for the Icelandic fishing communities. When the nutrient basis disappeared, the building also disappeared. In this country too, we see that small coastal fishing-dependent communities are particularly vulnerable to the loss of fishing jobs, because one has a more unilateral industrial structure than many larger communities have. Providing good conditions for coastal fishing can therefore prove to be the most profitable in the long run, both for coastal settlement and for the profitability of the industry. The previous government amended the 2005 regulations on the purchase and sale of quotas without going through the Stortinget. The changes allowed the most capital-intensive operators in the fishing industry to buy allowances for eternity and at prices that only the fewer had the possibility to participate. I see and confirm that the opposition party is still stuck in that policy. But it can't be so that only the most capitalists can secure their fishing rights – and that forever. I am pleased that our Government takes the job of cleaning up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e832	There shall be «light in the houses», the programme statement to the Council of State, Pedersen, when she joined. After that time we have received the NOx fee. We have been told that the government intends to steal 50 million. kr from the research resources of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. We have got district quota schemes, and now we have also been presented with the structural quota system. When there's still light in the houses along the coast, it's not because of, but despite the government. The representative of Gullvåg says it goes so that it laughs in the Norwegian fishing industry, and it doesn't go so bad, you might say. I think we have to agree on that. But why does that do that? Why is there some degree of profitability, partly good profitability, in the industry? It is not because of the belief in SV in unit quotas, no structuring or almost prohibiting anyone from owning anything in the Norwegian fishing industry. When it was as SV wanted it, and as the Workers' Party at the time wanted it, there was no profitability in the Norwegian fishing industry. On the other hand, it was overfishing and not sustainable harvesting, and it was an industry that had a great need for subsidies. So structuring is necessary, and that's the most important factor that the industry today is profitable, and that this year we are going to export fish and fish products from Norway based on fish of the order of 20 billion kroner. But I'm going to go pretty banal, I'd say, basically to work now, because what the future success of the fisheries depends on is three things: one is fish, the other is fishermen, and the third is investors. Our Lord has given us a lot of fish – that can of course change – but I don't think we can decide out of this room. But to facilitate people who want to be fishermen, and for investors who want to invest in the fisheries, the government and our job are big business representatives. If people want to fish, and if people want to invest in fisheries, they have to be profitable. It's not enough that you can actually make some money on this, because those who invest in fishing fleets, and those who work in fishing, are exactly the same people who invest and who work in the offshore fleet. So competitive on wages and working conditions the fishing fleet must be. Today there are two grips that I believe weaken this profitability. One is to reduce the quota ceiling for the largest classes of vessels. This makes it difficult for some boats that do not already have enough allowances, all year round work for fishermen, and thus some lose the opportunity to get a fishing discount. In addition, it clearly weakens the profitability of both the owner and the crew, as the lot and the owner's share are reduced. The second is that we are currently implementing a time-limited quota. I could imagine taking a parallel: if a farmer has bought himself milk quotas from the neighbor, and then he is told from the Stortinget that in 20 years we will take from you the milk quota again, after he has bought it and thought he would keep it forever, I guess that there had been riots, both inside and outside this room. Something like that would have been almost unimaginable. But taking this quota away from fishermen – the majority in this room does without any difficulty. You call it privatisation, and then you have to have a law of participation that says there are fishermen who are registered in the crew, who have the opportunity to own a fishing quota. It is made clear that there is a broad political consensus that the fishing quota that is being introduced is going back into the same class of vessels. So I'm going to say a little bit about the structuring of ships with a length of 11-15 meters. Helga Pedersen raided that we should have had an impact assessment of what we proposed in the previous period. I think that's a good idea. Then the State Council of Pedersen can take this into account and ensure that the many excellent proposals of the Progress Party are examined in the previous period. With regard to what we are proposing today, I ask myself, why should we have a hearing? There is broad consensus in the industry, in the LO and around that this is hastened. I believe that it must be good to be able to get an evaluation before implementing such a dramatic change to the framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e849	Fisheries are still among the most important industries in our country, and the fishing industry will continue to be. The fishing resources are the common property of the people. It is therefore quite obvious, in my view, that the resources and industry must be subject to strong control and control. Fishing resources are a renewable but limited resource, for which there is a great deal of interest and in which there are high values. Without strong monitoring and control, the whole industry can collapse in a short time. I think most people now realize this, even those who don't like so much regulation, control and control. Therefore, the grips that are now being made by the Government and the Storting are also extremely important. I also want to commend the Government for the great effort that has been made in a short time to deal with the illegal overfishing. It clearly shows that control and monitoring are beneficial, and it shows how necessary this is to ensure the population. The fishing industry is still the very bearer of many viable coastal communities, and therefore housing and nutrient development are inextricably linked to the industry. Although there are also many other industries that can develop in coastal communities, the fishing industry is the main industry and the basis of the entire coastal culture. Fisheries are failing, and much else is failing in such communities. The proximity of resources must remain central. It must be perfectly natural that the communities based on the fishing industry, which have the resources just outside the living room door, should continue to have the right of priority to harvest this resource. It has to be done in such a way that it creates jobs on land and thus also activities and housing. That is why both the regulation of fishing and the delivery of the catch are so important. I am therefore pleased that the Government focuses on the development of fisheries between parts of the country. In this context, the government states that vessels based in South Norway have had a more favourable development than those from North Norway. It should be in the nature of the matter that the coastal communities that are most dependent on fisheries still need to have a resource that will enable viable local communities to be maintained. It is this that can ensure ‘light in the house’ along the coast, and that can maintain the diversity of Norwegian society, to which we are so happy to refer. The government also follows up the promises of the Soria Moria declaration to implement, among others. a dedicated coastal fleet renewal programme. Such fleet renewal will play a major role in strengthening fishing-dependent areas and in improving the possibilities for recruitment to the fishing industry. Safer ships and better standards will be important to get young people into the industry. In other words, arrangements are needed to facilitate investment in new vessels and, by restricting access and structuring, an economic catchment basis can be created to defend such investments. I don't think those who are going into the industry today are in the past arrangements for working time and leisure time. That is why this must also be included in the assessment when we define tomorrow's fisheries policy. I think with this we can get a time-based, differentiated fleet that can increase the possibility of value creation and first-class raw material. I think the government with this message has invited Stortinget to take action that in a good way combines the concerns of housing, business development, profitability and recruitment. This is what we call active industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e871	The biggest communication on the structural policy for fisheries is an important one. It is important for the country in general and the coast in particular – not least for the part of the country I come from. I am from a fishing force on the outside of Senja and have seen that the development of my municipality of origin, Torsken, has not been positive in recent years. The reasons for this are many and complex, but one of the reasons is enough that the municipality has lost much of its resource base in the last couple–three years, almost 30 pst. of cod quota and 35 pst. of the allowance NVG-sild. It has had great and negative significance in a municipality dependent on fisheries such as that of Torsken. That is why, like many, I was very happy when Fisheries Minister Helga Pedersen launched his important ambition for fisheries policy, that there should be 'light in the house' along the whole coast. It simply means that the fisheries policy must be formulated on the basis of some general social objectives, such as: ensuring coastal settlement as well as facilitating the economically robust management of the fishing environment. We're a lot of people who think there's goals that are perfectly compatible. For several decades, there has been a political consensus that fleet fishing capacity needs to be adapted to a sustainable harvest of resources. It has also been common to think that the large natural resources — such as fish in the sea — are a common land that, on the basis of defined assumptions, has been made available for harvesting. As a result, many who were concerned about what happened when the structural quotas in force at a 2003 amendment were ranging from being a time-limited asset for concessionaires to becoming an everlasting property that individuals could convert into a security and sell to maximum bidder. As a result, structural quotas have shifted from a business-internal instrument to a tool for accelerating transactions, concentration of activities and with a direct impact on resource redistribution, in a way that has disturbed a great deal. In addition, many believe that this has led to a cost drive in the industry that is worrying. Looking at the ratio of the average earnings to the level of debt in the fleet in recent years, the debt has doubled, while the average income has remained at the same level. Of course, it makes the fleet more vulnerable to all kinds of fluctuations, such as resource variation and fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. The proposal for the time-limiting of structural quotas such as St.meld. No 21 add up, has, among other things. to reduce the price pressure in the fishing fleet. In the 2006 study on the structural instruments, which is the basis of the message we are processing today, it has been estimated that the quota value had been reduced by approx. 48 pst. if the time limit had been 15 years, provided that the allowances were removed in full. This is a plausible estimate, all the time the price of the allowance will be an expression of expected earnings on the same allowance. In other words, delimitation is important to prevent structuring from becoming what it was not supposed to be – a tool for sending capital out of the industry and a bonus for those who want out of the fishing industry. It is very important that the structural message indicates that both current and future structural quotas should be time-limited, if one has a slightly different time horizon on the two groups. It's important for a lot of reasons, but first of all because it would be very unfortunate to say introduce an A-layer and a B-layer. Structures have been and can continue to be a good tool to adapt the fleet to the fishing grounds at all times and to make fishing industries profitable for each operator. However, it requires an alert eye — and legislation — to prevent the negative consequences of structuring, such as: not taking out too many vessels in a group or getting too much ownership of a vessel and allowances. In particular, this is important for the coastal fleet. That's why it's good for the Government to take more steps for this fleet, especially for the fleet group between 11 and 15 meters, which is now able to structure. This is an important but particularly vulnerable group of vessels. Moderate structuring, in which the scheme will be evaluated as early as 2009, will help to continuously see the results of the scheme. It is also interesting to note that government batches have to be considered whether it is only possible to transfer chess quotas from larger vessels and not vice versa. There is broad consensus in the Committee setting that clear guidelines should be developed to prevent the concentration of owners in the industry. In particular, this is needed in the coastal fleet, which does not currently have such limitations. In particular, it is necessary to look at the intention of the law of participants on a fishing trip and to ensure that there are rules such as: prevent multiple vessels from being assembled on one hand or from being crossed between sea and coastal fleets. It is also important to look at the proposals of the structural study on supplementary quotas, for example. assessing how the community can provide resources that can be deployed where it is needed at all times, e.g.: regional quotas, quotas put into special fisheries at special times, or, in particular, that resources can be set aside for young people in fisheries. This is what is future for the coast and for one of our most important industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e888	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e891	As many people before me have pointed out, today we have a very important debate on the future of the fishing industry, an industry that has a potential that some claim is large enough to fill the gap as the oil sector descends. The central party supports the compromise presented and where the totality has counted more than some elements of the decision. But let me be free enough to give a little alarm message to the Minister of Fisheries, and this is the case with the structuring of vessels less than 15 meters. There is a group that is difficult to see in need of structuring, as it has some difficulty in picking up the quota it has. We see that eight municipalities have from 20 to 34 boats in this particular group, where they form a significant part of the fleet in the municipality. A hard-handed structuring that can have serious consequences. For boats under 11 meters we have the following situation: From 1995 onwards we have lost 10,000 boats along the coast. Many of us said that the consequence of this could be that they are unable to take up the allowances they have at their disposal and that the remaining allowances are transferred to other fleet groups. Someone said we were pessimistic. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is precisely in these days at the Fiskerlages national meeting in Trondheim that it is discussed to take 1.5 pst. of the quota from boats below 11 metres and moving upwards. I say that it is discussed – it is not a political decision that has been made, but it shows the seriousness of the matter. That is why I ask the Minister for Fisheries to follow closely what is happening in these two fleets, and to insist that there should be a 'light in the house', and that the measures initiated by the Ministry of Fisheries on coastal culture become a really good project and not a project for a coastal culture that has gone into a mill bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e900	Now that we are dealing with the position of the Business Committee on the structural policy of the fishing fleet, it is my sincere opinion that this matter has landed in a balanced manner when we look together at the considerations taken into account. There has been a good process where different considerations are weighed against each other before the Minister for Fisheries and the Government has concluded on a challenging matter. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Business Committee ends up dealing with the Government's arrangements. We have had several important principles broken down, including: that it shall not be an everlasting quota. There shall no longer be operational arrangements for the fleet group less than 15 metres from which any shipowners could land and lease allowances to others. I am amazed that the Christian People's Party signals that they will still support such a scheme, where some could have a lot of boats lying by the dock. I think that would actually also contribute to overfishing in the long term. Furthermore, it is positive not to introduce a resource tax, and a reasonable balance has been made when it is possible to structure very carefully in groups 11 to 15 metres. There has been considerable attention on this issue, where large words have been used from some quarters about what misery this will bring. I have to say that I know a lot of fishermen who say that they can live well with this. The opposition with the Right in the head has criticised the lack of compromise. What did these parties in Bondevik II do? Yes, they did not bother to come to the Storting when they made their changes, for example. in relation to the 2005 sea fishing fleet. The change in such an important area occurred during a regulatory change. Already here I would say that the basis of a compromise was destroyed – we were not on the same planet. When we see these parties' comments and proposals, I regret to say that we are miles away from a compromise. So it's good to see the Progress Party, which turns the cape after the wind, as they don't want any of the boats to be structured under 15 meters. I believe that what is now adopted will be a good arrangement for all parties. Finally, I would also like to remind you that the leader of the Norwegian Fiskerlag, Reidar Nilsen, expressed his satisfaction with the main part of the government's structure when it was presented. I also felt the same at the annual meeting in Finnmark Fiskerlag this weekend. Although there were critical voices, there were many who uttered the message that this could be a good way to live with. The Minister has then signaled an evaluation of the structural action in the ship group between 11 and 15 metres by the end of 2009. I think that is sensible and sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e917	The representative Steinar Gullvåg owes the Advance Party to cause the noise outside among fishermen and in the fishing industry. I was present at the annual meeting of Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag last Thursday and Friday, and I think I dare say that there was little debt that the Progress Party had a problem with something that would cause noise. The only thing that was said that I perceived as criticism of the Progress Party was that one has turned around when it comes to structuring boats between 11 and 15 meters. And to that I'm going to say that what we've been asking for is that there's an explanation about this. When we hear that SV and the Center Party in their programs have said something about this, when we also hear that the Council of State has meant something about this earlier, which is in stark contrast to what is the Government's proposal, you have to ask: What is the reason why these have turned around? We don't care about that. We've said why we've turned around. We have turned around because there are so many requests for this that we think it is necessary to take care of it by making a statement. Then it is said that the fishing industry is going to laugh. Yeah, that's right. But if we look back, further back than until 2005, the industry was broken back, and had not managed to reverse the trend, many in the industry would probably have gone bankrupt. The industry itself has managed to develop a better service based on the situation. The industry is proud that it is not being subsidized, but one clearly sees that there is a big problem in getting a crew. There must be something to do with it, and it will be necessary to look at the fisherman's deduction. So at the annual meeting, Lars Peder Breck asked if Norway's Fiskarlag was when the various parties developed their programmes. Yeah, it wouldn't have helped that much. When you read their programs and see that the games have turned to those degrees, there wouldn't be that much help if they had contributed to anything. So it is said that one will privatize the fishing. I would like to quote what Reidar Nilsen said at the annual meeting of the Fiskarlag: ‘The fishers are not occupied by who owns the fish when swimming around the sea. We want the right to operate the sea and fishing. The government wants quotas for the good of the people, but the people must have someone to pick up the fish." I fully support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e935	It is with amazement that I have followed this debate and at all events what has happened since the Minister presented the structural message after a long structural break. What we have witnessed is, of course, a taboo of dimensions in relation to what we were met with when this debate began in 2003. So far we can say that it was good it was a structural break, and that everyone was given the opportunity to think about it, because today we stand considerably closer to each other than we did then. But I'm not sure if that was what people were expecting after the promises given in the election campaign, and what the Center Party, and SV in particular, stood for in the election. SV is now continuing what they themselves called a fisheries policy experiment – very much like what was presented by our government in the previous period. The central party accused the Christian People's Party of having come among bad friends, and took a sharp distance from what happened in the previous period. I'm not going to use the same rhetoric right now. I don't like having bad friends here at Thing, so I'm not going to use that rhetoric today. But it was used against us. I am pleased to see that the Central Party has now come closer to its own fisheries minister from the time of the central government, Peter Angelsen, who strongly disagreed with his own party in the previous round. Now the party has found together with its former minister once again and even opened up for expanded structuring. From the Christian People's Party we can say that it is happening below today – and with the views of the Centre Party it has actually done so. Lars Peder Breck began his speech by saying that what is now presented by this government balances different considerations. I can agree with that to some extent. But when he continues to say that we are turning "completely around" on the Bondevik II government's fisheries policy, I don't understand that we are on the same plane. The fishing industry – that is said before, and I say it again – is going to laugh. This is due not least to the thanks that the previous government took in the fisheries policy, and I am pleased that the current government is continuing much the same. I listened with excitement to the Minister's posts. I think there was little involvement in the post compared to what was the starting point for the structure break. And I understand that, when you saw that Hammerfest port was blocked by Finnland fishermen because you disagreed with structuring in the group 11-15 meters, as the Christian People's Party has now shown that we are with them about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e952	There is little doubt that the fisheries policy is engaged, nor is there any doubt that the fisheries policy is mobilising. From the time the structural notification was submitted, it has been blowing violently along the coast. On 16 April, Nordly had a case entitled ‘Broad front of fishermen vOT HELGA’. On 20 April we were able to read in the same newspaper: ‘Helga in train towards its own policy’. Four days later – April 24 – Nordlys had a case where Professor Torbjørn Trondsen at Norway’s fishing school stated that Helga Pedersen was behind a ‘fisheries policy spin-off’ and ‘Mener Helga removes 600 jobs’. Such an ointment from one of the Council's own investigators and advisers is of course there's reason to notice, because the criticism comes not from a political opponent, but from a follower, and should be soothed the more. As if that were not enough, we could read on 26 April in Nordlys about «Kampen zur Helga», when 30 fishing vessels blocked Hammerfest port. I was in Hammerfest that day, and it was a powerful demonstration against a policy that was totally disagreeable with. This was just a small sample of the innumerable dissatisfactions which have almost been hurled over the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs after the presentation of the structural communication. My claim is that the state council has asked for verbal Christmas itself, all the time she was running election campaigns for one policy and since then will implement a completely different policy. In medicine, such behaviour qualifies for the diagnosis of schizophrenia, and it can simply look as if the Minister of Fisheries is suffering from some sort of political schizophrenia. But I have to admit that I have some sort of admiration for a government council that obviously so easily shakes off such serious criticism, and which clearly minimizes the slaughter of the structural message received from many teams in the industry. Norwegian fishing industry lives under demanding framework conditions and competitive conditions affecting both profitability and recruitment. Jahn Tegen wanted a ‘One-day break’, but the fishing industry in Norway received a maximum involuntary break of two years. After all, it is not easy for an industry under fierce competition to claim itself when you get that kind of framework conditions trodden down. I don't think there'll be any more light in the houses if the fishermen can't get a more acceptable annual salary from their profession. Nor do I think there will be any more light in the houses that the same workplaces get new owners in the form of public rescue operations, where municipalities suddenly become owners of fish processing plants. The right is committed to maximising the ability of the fishing industry to create more livelihoods and to the ability of the industry to renew and attract new generations of fishermen who will settle at or near their home. I do not know if there are other situations in which one defends itself by believing that it is acceptable to change the rules of the game along the way, but it has therefore had to be found in the Norwegian fishing industry under this Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e985	The President will point out that it is very unfortunate to characterise other co-representatives from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e988	Quite briefly, I just want to say that I am a little disappointed that there has been no more concrete action on this with youth quotas and recruitment to the fisheries. Now, of course, there may be a little connection with the fact that you see that you can provide an industry that doesn't necessarily have the profitability and predictability that the young people you might have recruited into the industry would have wanted to stay there. But I'm curious about what the government will deliver in a short time, hopefully, in terms of youth quotas and recruitment to fisheries in Norway. And then it's important to bring it all the way around that it doesn't help what you do with recruiting 16 or 17 or 18-year-olds to the industry if they don't care about an industry where both pay and well-being are as good as in the competing industries you have along the coast. So the structure at home is 11 to 15 meters. There is therefore a considerable uncertainty also in the government parties in this matter. It must be, since it is said that one should have an evaluation already after 1 1/2 to 2 years, and because to the extent that none of the government representatives in this room have said that they are very much in favour of structuring in this home class. Many municipalities both in Trøndelag, in the West and in North Norway have as much as 20 to 30 pst. from its raw material base of this household class. In parts of the year — not all year necessarily — the raw material from this home class is of such importance that it is the basis for operating in the fishing industry. Then it's not impossible, it's probably also likely that in this home class you have to get some kind of structuring in the future. But does this have such a hurry when there is so much uncertainty about this? Can it not wait, especially when apparently no one is really for, and no one will take responsibility for having pushed anyone into this structure? If the evaluation in 2009 shows that the fishing vessels have left the municipalities concerned and that the fishing recipients have been decommissioned because of this, there is no help in evaluating either. A tip to the government council: it's easier to keep the lights on than to turn them on again, if the darkness has first subsided.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1001	Like the President, I would like to warn against the distribution of diagnosis from this pulpit from the psychiatry directed at government councils or co-representatives. There are such posts that could also tempt others to distribute similar diagnostics. In my view, this attitude shows an insurmountable disagreement on the structural policy related to the issue of permanent and fixed-term quotas. We have also been confirmed by the line changes here today. There is also a significant disagreement that shows that the structural policy of Ludvigsen would have centered the structure of the fishing industry forever and ever, depending on the capital power of the practitioners. There is a fundamental and ideological disagreement that exists in this hall that it does not benefit to overlook. The right-hand batches are now trying to approximate the fishing industry by saying that there are those who have the support. It is Ludvigsen's fisheries policy that has the support of industry. So my question is, where have they been in the last few years? Were they in the 2005 election campaign? Or is it just that the right parties hear what they want to hear, and see what they want to see? Have they not registered the reactions of the Fiskarlag and the Coastal Fisheries Team to the committee setting? Have they not recorded that there has been a debate? In order for a debate to be held, more opinions are needed. Now I'm happy to admit that it may be difficult to be briefed in this debate, because that's the way my good colleague Bendiks H. Arnesen likes to say, that where two fishermen meet, there are at least three opinions. My colleague, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, said that the structural message has given birth to a storm. Now I'm not going to debate the strength of the winds with her, but it's important to know where the wind comes from at all times. I have recorded that the most high-lying criticism comes from the League of Fishermen on one side and groupings with respect near the party Red on the other. Between these extremes, in my opinion, the debate has been both varied and balanced. And as I said in my main post: the debate has affected the outcome. It's often called a democratic process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1013	As far as I can see, everyone who has spoken in this Chamber today has agreed that the fishing resource is a very important resource that everyone should enjoy. But not unexpectedly, the right-hand side does what they use to do, they defend the interests of those who have the most from before. So they want a private fishing community. I think this is a bad idea. I am very pleased that the government parties are now standing together and fixing a ‘pillar’ that I hope will stand forever: the fishing resource is the public. It belongs to everyone. No one can have a fixed share of it. I cannot help but comment: today we have received reactions from the Progress Party and several others to the structural message that I do not think is very good. We have also received comments such as that we in SV have had too much impact on our chess romanticism. At the same time, they say we haven't had any influence, we're outrun by the other parties in the government. So just as the Progress Party is turning around in politics, they're quickly turning into the perception of the different parties. That's an interesting move. I am very pleased that we can now establish that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are able to stand together and keep the fishing resources in the hands of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1024	I feel a very strong need to comment on the claims of the Progress Party that we have not listened to proposals for structuring in the group between 11 and 15 meters. This is not a matter for which there is only one opinion. There are very divided opinions here. I would like to point out that in the consultation round, the majority of county councils along the coast went in for structuring for the group between 11 and 15 meters. The same thing happened to the Fiskerlag and the LO, so the industry is not against structuring in this group, as the Progress Party here has made it. To the representative Jan Sahl's posts about the blockade in Hammerfest: Yes, I am very aware of that. That blockade was arranged by fishermen who wanted much more structuring than the government provided. They wanted, among other things: the opposite of what Jan Sahl enters for in the group between 11 and 15 meters. There has been a great commitment to this matter, and I am very pleased about that. There have been some strong opinions, but evenly over, we have received balanced feedback on the structural message. As far as fisheries policy is concerned, there are sometimes choices to be made. That was also done by the previous government, and I would like to remind you that it was not exactly a unison jubilee that met Fisheries Minister Svein Ludvigsen when he made various proposals. I am thinking in particular of the decision to introduce eternal allowances. So I'll have to comment on the post for Alf Ivar Samuelsen and the quota situation for the smallest groups. The group between 11 and 15 meters has already overfished its quota this year. The government shall facilitate a good quota situation for the smallest groups in the future. Now it is, among other things, free fishing for the fleet of less than 10 metres. In any case, if the smallest groups were unable to take up the quota in the future — depending on coastal availability — it would not be relevant for this government to shift the quantity from the smallest groups to the larger groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1037	I think it was a useful clarification we received from the Minister for Fisheries – and thank you for that. I will admit that I was not aware that the group from 11 to 15 meters had overfished its quota. I sat with other numbers. If we get into a similar situation, we might be able to solve it by taking research quotas and third country exchange quotas from the associated vessel groups and allowing the quota base to go to the smallest fleet. When I asked for the floor, it was because it was an indication that the Central Party has removed itself very far from its own policy. Let me repeat a little bit of the story. We were faced with the possibility that Svein Ludvigsen's policy could continue. It was a policy of effective centralisation in fisheries. It was a policy that would have created a fish wheel according to Icelandic pattern. We didn't want to. Those who haven't been to Iceland and seen how it's evolved on the coast there, should take a trip there. What's a little amazing is that we tried – and I was in a different position at the time – to free the Christian People's Party and the Left. Where did they stand? Their loyalty to their own government, the Bondevik II government, was great. They didn't say anything special. There were few counter-conceptions. Now the counterconceptions begin to come up. The Progress Party today says that they have listened to the coastal communities. Thank you for the fact that the Progress Party has got a new hearing aid. But I was in position in another part of the country and can prove that there were significant reactions to Ludvigsen's fisheries policy. What kind of hearing aid did the Advance Party have at that time? Then they didn't say anything. It's nice to listen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1046	I would like to have a small comment on the Workers' Party's Fisheries Policy spokesman, who just said that there was an insurmountable disagreement about the timing of fishing quotas that was the reason why no agreement was reached on fisheries policy. In this context, I would like to refer to a letter from the Højres Storingsgruppe dated 8 February this year to Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs Dag Terje Andersen, where we write that we want a broad agreement on the further structuring of the fishing fleet, and that we will find a solution that gives a broad deal to the interests of the fishing industry. In concrete terms, we propose that the period for structuring should be longer than 15 years, and we propose a different period for structured quotas. It shows that the right has stretched out an open hand to find a solution that did not mean that you would have time-limited allowances. In fact, I believe that the Workers' Party's Fisheries Policy spokesman has also brought with him. It is now said from a number of quarters that the limitation of allowances prevents the privatisation of allowances. In other words, the fishing resources belong to the community, but the quotas are the private fishing boat owners that dispose of them. Although allowances are granted retrospectively, they will continue to go back to the fishermen who are in that group and who own them privately. Let me describe it in a simple way: let's say you have ten vessels that are structured into five vessels with two allowances per. vessel. After 20 years, the allowances shall return to the group and be allocated to the five remaining vessels and remain privately owned on the five remaining vessels of that group. That means that you have exactly the same private ownership system in relation to these allowances that we've had all along, and that's an important principle for the Right. But I think it is very strange that a debate is being held that this principle has now been changed, and that there is a great political disagreement about it, because that is actually not the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1053	I think that this has been a very interesting debate, because it has helped to clarify ideological differences between the parties, and I think that is useful for the nature of the policy. Several of the speakers in the room have pointed out that there is a misunderstanding between the program of the Centre Party on the purchase and sale of allowances and what we are in favour of today. That's right, it's partial. But if you look at structural policy in a partial way, there will be no coherence and no good solutions. We have said that we want to help structure the purchase and sale of allowances for boats of less than 15 meters, but we have said that it is under the condition that we tighten up the structure that was allowed by the operating system that Ludvigsen introduced. Today, these vessels are given the opportunity to structure two allowances against three allowances through the operating system. The important thing in the context of structural policy is that we must look at the overall impact of today's proposals, for the whole fleet and for all groups. In total terms, when we look at all groups, the compromise presented by the Government goes beyond what we had the opportunity to achieve by fully implementing the Central Party programme. First of all, because we're removing the eternal quotas. We wouldn't have been able to do that by using the containment mechanism, which is the structural measure specified by the Centre Party. Now we get the resources back to the community. We get a relapse, which is also mentioned in the Christian People's Party program, and we get to reverse the privatisation that many parties are in favour of. That's where the big ideological difference lies. The second major and important point of the overall structural policy is that it now clearly rejects resource interest rates. Doing so avoids further structuring pressures. Doing so preserves resource interest in fisheries, in the districts – through vessels in action. This is perhaps the most important thing in relation to the future development of structural policy. Then we tighten up the possibility of structuring in all groups of the coastal fleet compared to what was proposed by the former government. When we see that there are proposals for changes in ownership restrictions, the totality of the structural policies adopted today will be very good. It will be reasonable on the basis of our objectives of ensuring activity across the coast, with a large number of vessels, and ensuring jobs and employment along the coast of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1066	I have noticed that the representative of Kielland Asmyhr earlier in this debate had an infection with regard to the government's industrial policy. While he is not particularly impressed with the activity in this area, he complains about the activity that is. Now I hardly need to inform this hall that I strongly disagree with Kielland Asmyhr's lecture on an active industrial policy. We have a diametrically opposite view of that. But it's interesting that a party that usually practises ideological dissent has, in fact, also become obsessed with ideology. But when you view ideology as a foreign word, it's not so strange if you don't discover the ideological divisions that exist in this matter. There is an ideological distinction in the view of time-limited versus eternal quotas in this room. There is an ideological distinction between what is a cementation of an ownership structure, depending on the power of capital, on the one hand, and a redistribution after a certain number of years on the other. Then I believe that I referred to the setting when I said a little while ago that there was an insurmountable disagreement in structural policy. At least my own notes show that that's what I did. If the representative Torbjørn Hansen thinks that there is no insurmountable distinction between first and foremost the Right Party on the one hand and the government parties on the other hand, is there only a practical distinction that now reflects in the view of the unlimited, eternal quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1075	The President is still uncertain as to whether the characteristics of political opponents are the right thing to do from the Parliamentary Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1078	It has been fun to follow this debate. It's just to record that it has a fishing policy tornado through the SVs and the Center Party's programs. There is not one formulation left, there is not a point or a comma left, but it is quite funny that they are up on this pulpit and defend a policy they are completely in disagreement with. Well, at least they'll have to praise you for that. Then we get some criticism because we've listened a little bit to the industry say about structuring in the ship group between 11 and 15 meters. We listen, we use our ears, and we use what we have between our ears, when the industry has input to make. And there's been a lot of input that's come into that process. If it's turning the jacket after the wind, I don't know, but it's at least taking the job Stortinget does, seriously. I assume that you have a hearing in Stortinget simply because there are some people who will be allowed to make their views known, and because you should also be able to take those views into account. We have. After all, the government parties in this Chamber today have also come up with criticism of the structure that is in the group between 11 and 15 meters. Alf Ivar Samuelsen warned in his first post strongly against the structuring that is taking place. I understand that very well, because he comes from a region that is heavily affected by it. And then it becomes quite strange that, for example, the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen is up here and celebrates this structuring, when she comes from a society that can be heavily affected. If that structuring goes full, she may risk that there is not one vessel left in that group in her municipality. And that's what she's standing on the Great Council chair, and she thinks it's good. I think that's quite strange. Then it is said that the fishing industry goes so far as to laugh. Yes, it does, and it has to do with two relationships. One relationship is that there is a very good situation out in the international market with high, good prices. The second is that there has been a good and sensible policy. This was done by the previous government with the support of the Progress Party. We're proud that you did, that you got rid of the overcapacity that was about to make the whole industry unprofitable. We took seriously the signals we received from the industry, and what it needed to structure. We got it done. We got it done so that there is profitability in the industry, and it goes so it laughs. That this government is going to bring it back, we think we're sad. For timeout allowances, security means. Temporary allowance means uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1087	It has been interesting to listen to this debate today. At the same time, I have to say that I am really disappointed. I am disappointed that today, in the Stortinget, we are unable to provide the important fishing industry with more stable and robust framework conditions than will be agreed today. When I listen to the position game, it fades out like this: the arguments are weak, raise the voice! A user expression as an unmatched discrepancy, so that one did not get a compromise. That is not correct. One knows that there was a willingness, and that attempts were made, to find compromise. Big ideological differences, it's said. Yeah, maybe so, but I can't see them. To me, it seems more like an attempt to create some ideological differences, but it fades like a waving with tiny little flags of cake. The reality is that the compromise between the three government parties is so shattered that it was not possible to move as much as a comma. That's what I think is sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1094	I must again be allowed to comment on the claims of the Progress Party, to listen to the industry. Now the representative of Korsberg's party-tank representative Starheim has just been to the pulpit and told him that he was in Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag and was criticised for the party's turnaround in terms of structuring in the group between 11 and 15 meters. But let me say a few words about time constraints. That's why I now went to the pulpit. There are two time-limit perspectives that are important to ensure the fishing resources of the community as property. One is that it contributes to lower prices, that is something, among other things. The main organisation of the financial industry points to this in its opinion. This ensures that more players are placed in the position of these quotas. The second perspective is that when these structural quotas fall back, balancing between the different actors in the fleet group prevents a large proportion of allowances from being collected at the hands of a few actors forever. Therefore, time-limiting is a very important measure. Finally, I would like to comment on what has been said in the debate that politicians cannot adopt more fish. I agree with that, of course. It is also shown that there are good prices in the industry at present, and that there is something that comes almost entirely by itself. I agree, of course, that prices are not agreed either. But this government has waged a very active fight against the illegalities that are taking place in the Barents Sea, a battle that the previous government did not take up. The fact that we have been active in this area has led to very much illegal caught fish – black fish – being away from the market. It has helped to contribute to higher prices for the regulatory actors. So, the government is probably not entirely without “guilt” in the good times and in the good prices that the fishing industry is now experiencing. The battle we have now waged in the Barents Sea will, of course, also lead to higher quotas. It's a result you don't see from day one, but when we're overfished – which we're doing well – it means more fish to the fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1103	I thought I needed a little comment from the representative of Korsberg, who commented on my post. He may not have heard so well after he spoke about the homage of structuring for boats between 11 and 15 meters. What I said was that the proposal that exists from the Government now has a very positive side, and then it has some sides that we have to follow closely. First of all, the proposal is very positive because it gives boats of that magnitude the opportunity to have two allowances on one boat, which in turn means that you can be two men on boats of that magnitude. That is why there are very many in my municipality that support structuring also for boats between 11 and 15 meters. It is also important to keep an eye on not building down the capacity of that fleet size. This government has said that it will, among other things. by carefully monitoring and evaluating the arrangements for boats between 11 and 15 metres in 2009. I am very sure that the Government will follow up the coastal fleet and, in particular, this fleet group, so that the significance of this group will be safeguarded in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1117	I feel it is necessary to take the floor when it is used against us that we – as I have pointed out – have received criticism at the annual meeting in Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag because we want to go against structuring for boats between 11 and 15 meters. It's right that we got criticism because, it was said, we had turned around. When the critics found out what we actually went in for, that was the end of that criticism. And they were happy with that. On the other hand, I believe that Lars Peder Breck, who was also present at the same annual meeting the other day, listened to confirm that the criticism of the government party was quite loud. This was, in part, serious criticism. It was also to a certain degree rolling – without me going into it. But the biggest question that one asked at this year's meeting was whether the government party really thought it was worth the time that has gone from a stop to structuring in 2005 until today. What was shown was that a caller of the community's dishes was taken care of by a number of fishermen who pledged their homes and houses in order to obtain a ship to catch it. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that if one had not received a better ignition in 2005, likely much of the industry would have gone bankrupt. It was also shown that one still had a major problem getting a crew on board the boats, because the ignition was still so low that it was simply impossible to get a crew with the necessary skills and knowledge of fishing, which was very damaging to the industry. It was also shown that once one had got hold of the crew, and had taught them to be fishermen, they disappeared to the oil industry, due to the discrimination between the oil industry and the fishing industry. This is a must to watch. The proposal from the fishing side was that one had to consider increasing the fisherman’s deduction, so that one in one way got the difference that existed. It is not right to claim that there is a difference between my vision and that of Korsberg. I believe there is a great deal of agreement in the fisheries industry that the Progress Party has a positive view of the industry and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1134	I could not fail to hear that the representative Steinar Gullvåg gave me a visit in his post. If I heard correctly, the representative of Gullvåg sees the Progress Party as a party that sees ‘ideology’ as a foreign word. I think it's relatively eye-catching. At the same time, I know that Gullvåg is a representative who has followed closely in the political debate in this country in recent years, and I think it is nice if he has the impression that the Progress Party is a party that has no ideology. Then it is nice that the views of the Progress Party create such strong reactions and such a strong debate, among other things. like what they've done today – if we don't follow an ideological lead. What I asked questions about in my article on ideology is what is the government's active industrial policy. There is no consistency between what the government parties have done in the past, and what they do in concrete matters, including in this matter. It is therefore not the Progress Party that has turned around. It is the government parties, and in particular the government party, the Workers' Party, that have strayed from their promises to pursue an active industrial policy. Then the Progress Party has received criticism that the party listens to industries – and to this industry. It must be a paradox for the Workers' Party that it is precisely the Progress Party that listens to people in the country and in the different industries. Probably that's where the solution to the famous FrP code lies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1145	Lars Peder Breck has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1148	At the end of this debate, I want to say that I was with Åge Starheim at the annual meeting in Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag, and there, both rice and rose, which it uses to do at fisherman's annual meetings. We who are used to being at such meetings know that it is spoken with a clear voice. That's the way it was there. So I don't think I'm going to take it any more seriously than saying that we're taking the signals that come there, the same way that we're taking the signals from other fishing season meetings. It was also a very pleasant annual meeting, as I experienced it. When Øyvind Korsberg believes that a tornado has gone through the Central Party program, and that we are defending a policy that we disagree with, I just want to say simply: No, we are defending a policy that we agree with. We have been in the process of putting forward the compromise, the solution we have been given in structural policy. We've been in and out of the way to ensure that we don't get resource interest, that we don't get eternal quotas – and we've reduced the structuring pressure considerably in the future. It is very important for me to establish it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1155	I'm not accusing the Advance Party of listening. The Progress Party should do that in most contexts. But when they listen to them to such an extent that they constantly take positions that they think are the most prominent in opinion, it's usually called opportunism. In this case, I think we are facing a case where the Progress Party has actually heard wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1160	Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1163	I want to use the entire speech rate. I haven't managed to structure, along with someone else here in the hall, and I don't have eternal quota. To the so-called reverse operation that the Progress Party has done: we have not turned around. We're positive for structuring. What is the difference between the Advance Party and the Government and the Government Parties is that we will evaluate this in 2007, while the Government will do so in 2009. We want to be sure of what we're doing, which is going to affect the industry. It ignores the government parties, and I think that's a little sad. Then I just register that Lars Peder Breck from the Center Party agrees with his own party program. He must be quite allowed to be. Then there has been a debate about whether this is an active ownership policy. Bendiks H. Arnesen said that this was the government's active ownership policy. There is a policy that the industry disagrees with; it is the government's active ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1174	As the President records, the Transport and Communications Committee is on hold. We started to stave a little bit, so I found out that I might be able to take a three-minute insert to warm up to the upcoming debates. I thought it was very interesting to listen to the last part of the debate, because then it was about the Progress Party. But I have not yet registered that a single representative, either from the government parties or from other parties, has documented or told the Stortinget where and when the Progress Party has turned. I think that's very interesting. It was in a way the representative Breck who lit me up a little here, because the representative Breck tried to show that the Progress Party is turning around on a case-by-case basis. But the Progress Party has not turned around at all. We had a discussion in our big group, and then we fell on the structure of ships between 11 and 15 meters. On the other hand, as the Center Party has done, we have not programmed anything in that direction. The center party has programmed something that they in this room today oppose, and that's a reverse operation. Such swirling operations have the Senterparte almost daily in the sitting government. We will see examples of this in debates later today, not least when we come up with what is going on in transport. This also applies to SV, which in this government has almost jumped marathon away from all its programme declarations. And then it is the Progress Party that is almost accused of having committed a reverse operation! It seems almost comical. What we've been asking for is to get the fastest possible impact assessment, so that corruption and government can make the right decision as soon as possible, for the sake of industry. We will not wait until 2009. We want an investigation now, to find the right measures for the industry as soon as possible. I understand that the debate is becoming like it is, because in particular, the government parties will not focus on what it does – their infallibility. That's why many debates in the Great Britain are going to be of the kind we've seen here today. But I think most people should hold on too well to claim that the Progress Party is turning around in politics. On the one hand, we are called big populists, and on the other hand, we are criticized every day for our policies. Now, surely, the sitting government and its parties must decide whether the Advance Party is populists or simply have a realistic policy that matches what people and nutrition want in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1185	I think the representative Sandberg should be very careful to get into the end of debates. Had he been present earlier in the debate today, he would have discovered that it has been shown that the Progress Party has carried out a spin-off operation, from the moment the Government submitted its structural communication, and until the Committee gave its opinion on the matter. First, the Progress Party accused the government of not having gone far enough in the structuring of the group under 15 meters. Today you warn against doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1190	The representatives of the Progress Party have repeatedly, repeated and repeated the need to listen to all those actors who disagree with the need to structure the Group 11 to 15 metres. At the same time, the Progress Party says that they are not against structuring in this group. Furthermore, the Progress Party criticises the Government and the Stortinget that two major periods have now been spent on this matter. At the same time, they want further impact assessments to be carried out. The representative Starheim said they were satisfied in Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag when he explained what the Progress Party really meant. I wish the Progress Party had also used the opportunity here in the Chamber to explain what they really meant. I'm at least much more confused now about the views of the Progress Party than I was when I entered the Chamber when the debate started.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1197	I hope the representative of Gullvåg does not go in the same trap that the representative of Jan Petersen went in, when he insinuates that we at Stortinget do not work. I've followed the whole debate, except for the little time I've spent in a committee meeting. In my office, there is a direct transmission from the debates in the Chamber. In this way, I have had the whole debate. And unlike Gullvåg, I have received internal proceedings in the Progress Party – from group board to group meeting – and the conclusions we have drawn. But now it seems like the Council of State might want a settlement. Could it be that we can get the evaluation during 2008? In that case, the government will meet us halfway, because we say in 2007, the government says in 2009. In fact, we believe that it is important for industry to know as soon as possible what policy to pursue in the future. It creates predictability for the industry. So now it has to wait for this government to evaluate in 2009. One of the points made by the Fischarlage in Sogn and Fjordane was that we wanted an evaluation and an impact assessment as soon as possible, based on the various proposals on the table. That's the only difference. If it is true that the representative of Gullvåg refers to a press release from the Progress Party: Well, then Gullvåg must have a reputation for having such an interest in reading the press releases from the Progress Party. But there is nothing in the press reports about the direction in which the Progress Party fell. We decide that in democratic bodies in this party, by the treatment of the group board and of the group. Then we've fallen into what's right, and what we think the industry is also satisfied with. There's nothing else the government says either, when they want to push the evaluation in front of them. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1209	Oge Starheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1212	I'm not going to spend much of that time. I just want to say that for me and for the Progress Party, it's more important that the fishermen and fish stocks are happy with what we're doing than that the government party is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1217	I am really asking for the word to correct a manifest misunderstanding. So far, I have thought and believed that the Press Releases of the Advance Party also expressed an opinion. It is obviously wrong, and I am sorry that I have been wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1222	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3326]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1238	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1247	The case concerns an amendment to the EEA Agreement, Annex XIII on transport following the inclusion of a Council Regulation on the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport. The Regulation mainly provides for driving and sleeping time in road transport and provides for the use of recording equipment for the registration and control of driving and sleeping time. Its objective is to contribute to ensuring a level playing field between forms of road transport in the EEA territory and to improving road safety and working conditions in the industry. The Regulation will mainly be implemented in Norwegian law through a revision of the regulation on driving and sleeping time, a regulation that is currently being revised. In addition, a new legal secret is necessary to punish certain offences of the decision. The Ministry announces in the proposal that they will come back with a motion for a resolution proposing the necessary changes. The regulatory changes and the necessary legislative changes that are coming will hopefully make it less attractive to break or help break down driving time and sleep time decisions and thus also contribute to fewer accidents, better working conditions for drivers and a level playing field in the industry. I shall not go into all the articles or decisions of this Regulation, but I will comment on Article 10(1) under the heading of responsibility of the transport operator. Here's what it's called: «Payment by a transport undertaking to its own employees or to drivers made available to it shall not relate to the distance travelled and/or the amount of goods carried, even in the form of bonuses or pay supplements, if that payment is such as to endanger road safety and/or encourage infringement of this Regulation.» It's a fact that traffic has increased a lot in recent years. This is true of heavy transport, and it may be particularly true of freight traffic. Economic growth, increased trade and the fact that companies have largely stored their own on rolling stock, are involved in this. Most importantly, this activity does not have a performance-based pay system which is an incentive for congestion or hard and aggressive driving to quickly emerge in traffic. In the area of road freight transport, we find today a wide range of pay schemes for drivers. Very many are connected to the distance travelled and/or the amount of goods transported. Some of us may have felt a loathsome attitude on the part of drivers in the traffic picture. The Transport Workers’ Association, which organises part of the drivers, clearly states that this with performance-based pay systems is hazardous to traffic. In a letter dated 4 December 2006, the representative Per Rune Henriksen raised this issue with the Minister for Transport. In principle, a person should think that it was a relationship that the employee/employer himself could settle. But unfortunately it turns out to be impossible, much because it's only 20 pst. by the members of this organised industry. In my view, Article 10(1), to which I referred, opens for a certain degree of discretion when such a piece of pay is dangerous to traffic. I believe that one can safely establish that such a pay system is initially dangerous to traffic and should therefore not be allowed. I think this is something that not only the employees would have enjoyed, but also the employer/business owner. Many companies that might think of going away from such a piece of pay system refuse in fear of losing out in competition with others. A law or regulation that prevents this will make it fair for everyone. In fact, there are employers who have approached us and said that they have used a different payroll system, and that they have only good experience with it. What they may have lost in efficiency, they have taken the form of less damage, less insurance premiums and a better working environment. The majority would like to see a change in the rules that states that this pay system should actually be banned. There is a minority here that indicate that they will come back to this matter in connection with the motions for motions for resolutions. I'm assuming that they want to do their own thing for their view of it. Otherwise, I refer to the configuration of the committee, which is inconsistency.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1283	The Transport and Communications Committee has submitted to Stortinget an opinion with comments on proposals for new regulations on driving and rest periods. The Regulation essentially provides for driving and rest periods in road transport and for the use of recording equipment for the purpose of recording and checking driving and rest periods and replaces the provisions in force. The aim is also to contribute to ensuring a level playing field between forms of road transport in the EEA territory and to improving road safety and industrial working conditions. The consultation note from the Norwegian Freight Car Association points out, inter alia: that Norway’s road network and topography differ significantly from that in other parts of Europe and that this should be taken into account both in the case of exceptional assessments and in the way the legislation is enforced. The new provisions provide for fewer cases where derogations are permitted. When the final legislative proposal comes up for consideration, it is very important to include the assessments and input from the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association, but also those from the Norwegian Freight Car Association. It points to significant and important elements, and the NLF is opposed to a number of proposed aspects covered by the regulations. This is why the Progress Party believes that it is very important to consider these recordings and to have an expanded consultation round in Stortinget – just to give us the law for the benefit of all parties that come under and are to deal with this regulation. Attention should be paid to the smooth application of the law and to the need to take into account both the legislative amendment proposal and the related regulation, as I mentioned earlier, which clearly makes it difficult and not practical to comply with the detailed legislation. The introduction of co-responsibility for several transport operators could have financial consequences, but this will happen primarily when drivers are imposed on impossible timetables for forcing them to break the Regulations. The provisions and regulations of the Working Environment Act regulate working time, and the Norwegian Working Environment Act is stricter than the work environment legislation of the EU countries we know. In this case, by legislative amendment and regulation, it is necessary to ensure non-discrimination – non-discrimination between Norwegian enterprises and employees with non-resident operators in Norway, non-discrimination when enterprises and employees operate in other EEA countries, and when non-resident enterprises and employees operate in Norway. This applies in particular to checks and penalties in the event of any breach of laws, regulations or administrative provisions, and to the fact that the contracting entity is also held responsible for infringements of driving and rest periods and working time regulations. However, good practice is needed to prevent double penalties. Finally, I would like to point out that the legislation must be adapted to our natural circumstances, because they cannot be adapted to the legislation. I cannot see that national adaptation would be contrary to the objective. One is aware that both Sweden and Finland are based on their national circumstances, as the exceptions they have had to date have continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1296	The matter under consideration is the approval of a decision of the EEA Committee to join an EU and EEA Directive. We have had a very fast, and, to the best of our knowledge, a procedure, but there has been only one hearing body, and it was Norwegian Transport Workers' Union. In view of that, I think it might be a bit drastic when the majority of people in this case say that a type of pay system, namely performance-based pay, is scary and could put road safety at risk. If that's true, it's clear that this isn't a system that we can have on Norwegian roads. At the same time, we cannot have an industry where Norwegian transport companies are subject to competition rules different from those of other EU citizens. We have to keep our tongue right in our mouths here, and make sure that we get a thorough explanation of the matter when we get the odelsting proposal for treatment, and that different actors in the industry can make their input. I have every sympathy for not having a driver on the roads that – I was about to say – gives full gas and runs to the couches. However, Norwegian health and safety legislation and other laws and regulations suggest that it may not be possible to do so today either, nor should it be so. With this small reservation, we also end up with this directive, but perhaps it is a bit drastic to devalue, or almost to go in the form of a note for a ban on a type of pay system based on an hour-long consultation with Norwegian Transport Workers' Union where no other hearing bodies were present.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1303	Unlike the last speaker from the Right, I am very pleased that the majority of Stortinget is actually doing something active in relation to regulations and directives coming from the EU. I don't expect anything else from the right party than that they're rubbing over and swallowing away everything that comes from the EU. From the big crowd's side, including the Christian People's Party, we have said that we think that we need to take it easy here, because we want to take care of things. for road safety. It's a little strange, I think, that the right hand side of Norway, represented by the Left, Right and Advance Party, didn't think there's a reservation it's important to have it tied up to the fact that this can actually improve road safety in Norway. I myself have checked the Commission's review of two road accidents involving vehicle combinations in my country, where it is evident that there is a problem that the level of knowledge of some companies causes a pressure on workers to do something they should not do. If we don't tell the law authorities what we think is right, what direction we think is right, and what we think is most traffic-proof, there's only one principle that matters, and that's that the market has to control. It is initially good in accordance with the EU principle, and thus also in accordance with a part of what comes under the EEA Agreement, see: all the problems we have with this agreement, whether it concerns the industrial power regime or whatever it may be. The point for us, from the point of view of the plural, is to give a clear message and a clear signal that we see traffic safety and people's working conditions ahead of the market principle. I'm very pleased that we have multiples for such a vision in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1310	Regulation [[EF]] The purpose of the Regulation is to contribute to ensuring a level playing field between forms of road transport in the EEA territory and to improving road safety and working conditions in the industry. This is done by changing the current rules on driving times, breaks and sleeping times for drivers of goods and passengers by road. As a result of developments in the transport market, the scope of the rules has changed somewhat. More vehicles than before will be covered by a change in the derogation and some have been made dependent on national implementation. There have been some changes to the rules for daily running, breaks and sleep periods per. day and week, mainly to make the rules easier. There's a string in a single area, including the number of hours that can be used for running each week and the rules for daily rest periods and weekly rest periods. There is more clarity and, in a sense, stricter documentation requirements for running and sleeping times. Drivers and operators are responsible for transferring and storing data from the driver card and tachograph. In addition, individual definitions are adjusted. Requirements for digital tachographs in new running gear were in force for Norway on 9 December 2006. The responsibility of drivers and operators to comply with the rules on running and sleeping time and the use of tachographs is reinforced by more detailed and precise requirements. I would particularly like to point out that there will be a ban on pay schemes that poses a risk to road safety or encourages infringements of the Regulation. More specifically, third parties are given express obligations when it is necessary to ensure that transport timetables in contracts are in line with the rules, and the administrative powers have the power to sanction breaches of those obligations. In addition, Member States are required to enforce the rules irrespective of the country in which the offence occurred, where the driver comes from, or where the activity is established. Until 1 January 2009, the Governing Boards may inform the home Member State of offences committed in other countries by citizens or enterprises which are nationals of other countries. I hope that the implementation of the Regulation will have a positive impact on the transport industry and road safety, and I welcome the support of the Transport and Communications Committee to the Government's proposal for the approval of the decision to include Regulation No into the EEA Committee. 561/2006 of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1332	There is, of course, broad agreement on all the challenges facing us here, and we will also come back to this when we have to make a proposal and, where appropriate, regulations. But I have a small challenge for the Council of State. I would like to have a clarification, but it may not be that the Council of State can take it on board. This concerns the majority comment on page 2, where it is considered that regulatory changes and any legislative changes are necessary to prevent such a remuneration system that could lead to a breach of the rules on driving and rest periods. Can the Council of State already point out which pay system we're talking about? And what problems do we face if it is that the Storting should intervene in terms of bonus schemes and remuneration systems such as: are included in collective agreements and the main agreement between the employer and the employee?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1343	It's hard for the Council of State here to go into the details of a work that's going on, because that's exactly what the representative Sandberg is dealing with, the relationship to collective agreements and the relationship to the current legislation, one has to go in and look at and get a clarification on. I have a clear formula that once I have been provided with that basis, we should ensure that we do not have current bonus schemes and incentives that could compromise road safety. I hope that a broad majority in Stortinget will agree. But a clarification in relation to the borderline cases that have been outlined, and other border crossings in question, one has to do, and that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1351	This goes on the same observation from the majority. We all agree that driving and rest periods must be respected. In its contribution, the Council of State has well documented this with digital tachographs, which are required, and other detailed requirements that are now in place. It is not certain that the Council of State can answer my question either, but it goes on to move forward towards the motion for a resolution, as the majority have taken this up: does the Council of State have a case in point that there is a pay system that leads to accidents? Or are there other heavy transport factors that contribute to accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1358	It's a composite set of causes that lead to accidents. It's both about the individual driver's characteristics, it's about the road's characteristics, it's about the traffic a meeting, where others can cause accidents, and it can be about stress, where a person is pressured to work at a level of stress that some people experience so that they are unable to give full attention to traffic and can become a greater danger to road safety. There are several examples of that. I shall not draw exactly a sample. It would be a mistake to stand here in Stortinget and do it, but I've been recorded by some drivers who think they've been exposed to that kind of scheme. I have also been in contact with the company that explains to me that they go away from that kind of incentive scheme, precisely because of the road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1363	My question is about driving and rest periods for the transport of live animals and the transport of offal. Here, Norway has per cent. today exceptional provisions due to climate, road network, topography and the location of slaughterhouses. Will this regulation that we are discussing today change the derogations we now have? In this case, the Council of State will contact the European Union, so that the derogations we have per year. today, can continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1370	Just the exception that the representative Tenden sketches is one of those that I am busy keeping. I have asked for the necessary grounds to see if we can keep them without going back to the EU. If necessary, I will contact the EU to secure and maintain these derogations. They are on animal welfare, and we cannot let corks or other legislation go beyond the responsibility we have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1375	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1380	The representative of Trond Helleland clearly believes that our plural remark about getting a code to prevent performance-based pay in the transport system is to build on a too thin basis – a ten-minute hearing with the Transport Workers' Union. Now it's saying that we had an open listener, and then there was a possibility for other parties to also set up. But my main point is to clarify that this is something we've been working on for a long time. I've got a lot of requests. In my post I also referred to a letter that we sent to the Council of State on 4 December 2006, where we just addressed that question. The industry itself, in particular the Transport Workers' Union, has pointed to the link between road-hazardous situations and the pay system. Personally, I'm completely overconfident that a performance-based pay system will be an incentive for dangerous traffic situations. Therefore, we should avoid such a pay system. The Norwegian locomotive association did not meet the call, but they will be able to make their views known later. I mention that if I do not have their official vision, I have at least received requests from individual companies. An example was an employer who called me, who had six tankers running for Norske Shell. He had gone away from a performance-based payroll system and over to another system, and he said he had only good experience with it. What he might have lost in efficiency, he would have felt that there was much less damage to cars, less insurance premiums and a much better working environment. I think it's worth trying to put in place a system that prevents this. I feel that in many ways it is to intervene in something that the social partners themselves should be able to sort out. But the actual ratio is that they've tried it for many years, without success. There is a lot of that in this sector there are so few organized that they can't get these things in place through the regular, central negotiations. I think it's time, through our legislation, that we make sure that this is banned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1393	I think there might be reason to recall what this matter is really about. It is an accession proposal that we are dealing with – that is, a question in which the Stortinget takes a decision on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of an EC Regulation. Afterwards, the rather detailed treatment of what is to be followed up by Norwegian legislation and the regulatory body which is linked to future legislation. In many ways, some of the comments here – not least comments from the government parties – are illustrative of what is a little strange in dealing with such matters. So it has been a little unusual to consult on this accession proposal, while at the same time having a deadline for consultation with stakeholders, a proposal for a detailed regulatory body for a forthcoming legislative change. In fact, parties who might have been at the hearing together with the one party who found an opportunity to attend were in the process of producing their hearing opinions within the time limit in force. Then it's a little strange that we looked to say in advance, in detail, a future amendment of the law and a regulation that the department is proposing to change before the Stortinget has actually adopted the actual legislative change. Just in order to be quite clear: the Progress Party is for road safety. We are too good working conditions also in the transport industry, and we are, not least, for the rational practice of driving and rest periods. It is a special challenge in relation to the EC regulation that we are now adopting unanimously, but also in relation to the practice of driving and rest periods by the Norwegian authorities, which, in fact, before this enlargement is a major enough challenge both for those who have the job of driving and transporting goods in Norway, and for those who are engaged in this as an industry. There are major challenges to how our own bureaucracy relates to the special geography we have, and the special conditions we have on a completely deleterious road network. However, we have also given some signals in connection with this accession proposal that we will listen to all stakeholders. We will do it in a thorough and good way through consultation in the context of the law, and we expect that there will be many parties represented at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1406	After the representative from Sorteviks, where he came into the process, I felt the need to clarify the following: Of course, it is right that this is a treatment of an EEA committee where we should give our consent. At the same time, this should be followed up by a revision of the regulations in the case of running and sleeping time and a legislative change. That's why we haven't gone into the details of what's contained in legislation, and the different articles there. But at one point we mean that we've come so far that it's already necessary to tell you about, and put some leads for, what's going to come in the regulation and in any legislation. What I mean is it's politically legitimate to be able to do, even if these prescriptions are out on the ears. At this point, I think we've had such a good background, and we've been working on it for such a long time, that we would say clearly that here we saw the traffic safety in the high-seat. Priority shall be given to the preparation of the regulation and the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1413	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3327]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1429	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1438	Too many here are probably afraid of race a well-known and everyday problem. Securing racially dangerous areas is a high priority of the red-green government, and we want an even stronger focus on racial protection. No one who hasn't even tried it knows how it feels to run to and from work with fear of race, or send children to school when one knows that one sends them on unsafe and racially dangerous ways. Here you will need adult training for those who live their lives in the flat landscape of the east. Transport is an important element for construction, industrial development and resource use. A large part of the value creation takes place in the districts. Good and safe roads are crucial for the competitiveness of the workplace, deciding that the labour force is safe to and from work, and deciding that the goods are to come out and reach the market, preferably centrally in the Orient or on the continent. Racism is, therefore, crucial for people and businesses to continue to live and develop in these places, especially in the West and North of Norway. Racial protection is specifically highlighted as a field of action in the Government Declaration. On this basis, the Government has changed the development of low affordability for racial protection throughout the ageing period, and has prioritised significantly greater resources for the purpose than in the previous ageing period. In the 2007 state budget, there are about 560 million. kr for the project and action against race on the road network. The National Transport Plan Report 2006–2015 suggested increasing the effort for racial protection. That effort was further reinforced by the mass plurality, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party. The government followed this up in the additional and revised national budget for 2006 to increase the commitment to racial protection for 2006 by a total of 90 million. kr in relation to the proposal of the Government of Bondevik II. In the 2007 budget, the national transport plan’s objective was to achieve racial protection. A total of about 480 million. kr will be used for racial protection in 2007. It's half of what's in the NTP's programme of action — half the period and half the amount. This means that the Government meets the expectations set out in the National Transport Plan. Climate challenges and racial security are an important part of the work of the Eta and the Ministry of Transport on the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. The Ministry also focuses on the context between these two challenges. This underlines the ministry in its letter dated 7 May 2007. The Council of State commissioned the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency to do more detail on the consequences of climate change and more extreme weather conditions for the development, operation and maintenance of the road and rail networks, with a focus on, among others. protection of breeds and fleas. State transport modes are now engaged in distribution and research projects which the Ministry of Transport will use as part of the basis for assessing whether racial protection should be given greater weight in a new national transport plan notification. The National Road Service draws up national racial protection plans as a leak in the work of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. These plans provide a good basis for addressing the challenges, assessing the need for resources and giving priority to racial security measures. I am therefore of the opinion that road users are more likely to be involved in the government's work on specific racial protection projects instead of producing new documents. However, I would like to pay tribute to the opposition to put on the agenda an important issue in the field of transport policy. On this basis, on behalf of the Government Party, I would suggest that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1464	Racial protection is an important theme. It is a special challenge in the transport sector because racial hazards pose a safety risk that cannot be safeguarded by its own behaviour. Here all road users depend on the road user taking responsibility and doing what can be done to ensure that it is safe to travel on Norwegian roads. I'm afraid there's a lot to it. Racial protection is a welfare measure. I would like to make my words to the Minister of Transport, because that is how the Council of State expressed itself the day before the National Racial Security Conference was held here in Oslo on 30 January this year. Let me point to the backbone of the conference and to the establishment of the National Racial Protection Group in 2001, a group of representatives from the seven most at risk: Sogn and Fjordane, Troms, More and Romsdal, Finnmark, Hordaland, Rogaland and Nordland. There are 2 000 racial events per year on the county and national roads network. There are 1,756 so-called racial challenges registered by the State Road Service, which includes 765 km of road. There are assumed hedging costs of NOK 20 billion. We know the challenges and the need for resources – with a visit to the previous speakers. Let me also take with me the conclusion of the Council of State and the Government after the opening of the conference: no new promises or signals. The State Council promised that the Government will give high priority to racial protection and that they will show it in NTP 2010–2019. It may be a few years to wait. There was no money for racial protection in the revised state budget. I quote again the Council of State: ‘Roadways connected by racial or racial hazards lead beyond that to poorer and more unreliable transport. Goods to and from businesses do not arrive in time. This results in additional costs for many activities in the district. A targeted and stronger focus on racial protection is therefore an important measure to reduce distance costs and disadvantages for people and businesses. [[...]] In addition to preventing road accidents and road closures, racial protection also has another important effect: good racial protection removes some of the uncertainties that many people experience when schoolchildren have to travel daily along raspline routes.’ Once again, I have quoted the concerns of the Council of State. The description is unfortunately so correct, so correct. Unfortunately, there is an equal amount of money missing. The Progress Party proposed a doubling of racial protection efforts in the national transport plan 2006-2015. The advance batch added 150 million. kr extra in its 2007 alternative budget, and there will again be extra money for racial protection in the proposals of the Progress Party in the context of the revised state budget currently under consideration. Nevertheless, the Progress Party wishes a separate case on the national Road Race Protection Plan, with the prioritisation of concrete projects and binding state funding. Nor in this field do we believe that we can only wait at national transport level. We should create our own plan and funding programme in order to implement a vow in the field of racial protection. Such a separate plan is a welfare plan. That is why other parties should also be able to support our proposal. I refer to our proposal, and I would also like to say that we can subsidly support proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1495	The representative of Arne Sortevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1498	Racism is an area that deserves increased focus and increased effort. I am very pleased that in the Right in our 2007 alternative budget, we prioritised 611 million. kr more for road investment and race protection than the government has been able to. We would have liked even more, but at least it is now important to follow up the country's action programme in relation to the NTP in the future, while supporting the good work done by the National Racial Protection Group to put this important theme into focus. I hope that the government parties' proposals for the 2008 budget will take over the delays in relation to the transport plan, and that one will then bring new money for racial protection. Money is good, but we also have to use it sensibly. It is therefore important to strengthen prevention measures. In the context of the national transport plan 2002-2011, an action plan on road race protection was drawn up and the Meteorological Institute carried out a climate scenario up to 2050 in the preparatory work of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015, on the assignment of transport modes. We now believe, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, that there is a need for a new and further monitoring, as there is little reason to doubt that climate change creates the need for increased knowledge of racial prevention. Racing monitoring and protection is one of several important and necessary climate adaptation measures. In addition, coordination between the different institutions dealing with racial issues is important. To the right, we believe that we should be at the forefront of climate change by increasing research efforts and thus increasing knowledge of racial prevention and racial protection. In view of this, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left promote a proposal for the identification of all racially dangerous routes, which is also based on the challenges now posed by climate change. When the E18 scandal took almost everything fresh in the revised national budget, it becomes all the more important that we get a 2008 budget that takes back the loss of racial protection. The E18 case is, of course, exceptional. I am therefore pleased that the Right has found extra funds to be used in the revision. It remains to be seen whether we are receiving support for our proposals there. I refer to the proposal to which the right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1511	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1514	I think it is good that the Christian People's Party is now raising issues related to race and not least to the climate issue. Five years ago, SV had a similar proposal, which we also had with representatives of North Norway and the West, which the Christian People's Party has today. We proposed measures that were quite similar to those proposed by the Christian People's Party today, and we wanted the government to put forward a case on this. The answer from the government party that time – Sahl’s party was in government, and it was also Greece – was that the government did enough, there was no extra effort in this area. I think it's good to remember that this is a theme that's been up before, and, when these three centermates are some that it's important now again, that it wasn't that important when you were in position. What has happened is that this government already in the 2006 budget plus the 2006 budget of Jan Sahl and Trond Helleland's 2006 budget proposal with no less than 90 million. kr for breed protection. At once, we acted alternately in relation to the passivity we experienced by the previous government. Now, climate has become much more focused. It's very much appreciated. I am very happy that this also leads to an increasing number of areas that need to think about how to prevent the consequences of greenhouse gas emissions, for example. in the case of road safety and racial protection. It is therefore strange, given the previous debate and listening to people, that the Progress Party is still the party that does not listen to people most when it comes to climate issues. They want to do something about race, but one doesn't want to be part of the split layer and the effort one needs globally and nationally to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, thus helping to reduce the racial risk around it. There is preventive work, there is active effort. So there's not the party for the most people on the party with the most people. Clearly the right-hand apparatus has been switched off. I now believed that when we have such things as this, we would also get the Progress Party on the preventive team, what would do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions nationally, thus also helping to reduce global emissions. Finally, let me just sum up that I didn't think that this government is doing enough to reduce the race. But what I'm recording is that this government is now in line with the National Transport Plan says that it should do when it comes to the race risk. One has paid half of the amount that one should pay in relation to the national transport plan, so we're on the way. The fact that the previous government parties are now coming forward with their proposals is very good, because then a raised debate will be reopened. But I think the most important thing you can do when you're in government, is to do something when you're in government, not when you're out of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1527	Let me first thank the rapporteur for a constructive examination of the proposal within the Committee. So I would like to say to the representative Hallgeir Langeland that it is not the proposers here that have raised the debate on who has given the most in terms of racial protection. On the contrary, it was addressed by the minister in the response we received from the ministry. We have asked for an investigation, and we are answered with how much money the sitting government has spent on racial protection. That was not the debate we wanted to have. I'll come back a little bit to what the previous government did. As the author of the proposal, I would like to say a few words about the background to the document under consideration. The Christian People's Party is concerned with road safety, and we are committed to taking care of life. We often say that road safety is a responsibility you have as a road user. That's true, but just when it comes to racial protection, it's like you can't do anything special yourself to reduce the risk of accidents. One is fully awarded the natural forces, unless the racial protection measures have been implemented. This is about quality of life, because insecurity and fear of one's own and others' lives reduce the quality of life. There is a relatively broad consensus that racial protection is important and that priority should be given to it. However, when my co-sponsors and I decided to promote this proposal for a representative, it was based on the desire to raise the issue of racial protection on the political agenda. Although we all agree that this is important, obviously we are not concerned enough with the problem. That's what we're looking at, the huge need for appropriations that we can't cover. Race needs to be higher on the agenda. We need more knowledge and information, and we need greater levels of funding for racial protection work. That is why, in all humility, we have promoted this proposal for a representative. It was therefore surprising that we felt that the proposal was met with the usual boast by the responsible minister of what this government has done in this area. Let me then, in all humility, point out that the Bondevik II administration carried out a great deal of racial protection in the previous period. The action against racial protection was reinforced by more than 30 pst., from an average of 370 million. DKK in the period 1998-2001 to an average of 490 million. kr per. year 2002-2005. More than 37 racially exposed sections and 130 racially exposed points were remedied during the period. Then we have also thrown ourselves into the competition that the minister offered. Appropriations are one thing, and it is important, but attention to the theme, information and knowledge and overview of scale and needs is another important element. Some summaries of racial hazards have been drawn up in Norway and new surveys are being prepared. The national racial protection team shall be commended for its long-standing efforts to raise the racial protection problem. It has pointed out that we have a challenge of 20 billion kroner. There is little doubt that the climate challenges – which we were reminded of not least during the last weekend – need to be taken seriously. Racial mapping and protection is a very important topic that we, as proposers, want to raise on the agenda. I would like to challenge the Minister in his statement to inform us about what one will do in this area before the National Transport Plan is presented, and whether we can be informed by the Stortinges in some way about what the Government is working on in order to identify the challenges we face in the field of racial protection. Climate change creates considerable uncertainty. It is no longer sufficient to build on historical knowledge of racial events. We should be in the forefront of the changes by increasing research efforts, thereby increasing knowledge of racial prevention and racial protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1546	On January 15, 1905, there was a terrible race in Lodalen, North fjord. Then loose a piece of the Ramne Mountain, which took a watch down towards the water. The following river wave killed a total of 61 people. Only nine of the dead were found. 52 others got their graves in the water. Afterwards, collection was started for the injured. Of course, it came in NOK 27 000. So: Not Friday, but Sunday 13 September 1936, it again crashed into the same area and mountain. This time, 74 people died in Lodalen. Only 33 of these were found. This time, too, a nationwide collection of Rasofra was launched. The operation received NOK 670000. In the past, such a breed was part of the layer. Now, protection against this kind of defamation is both a public good and a policy field. The word racial protection is not found in the Bible, the book dictionary, or the new dictionary, but is increasingly an important topic in the Norwegian political vocabulary. The proponents of the Christian People's Party have measured praise for having contributed to the debate here today, but that's all, too, because the red-green government in two button years has shown that racial protection is not just a common word, but at most the perception of an increasingly large budget line. And in the extension of budgetary commitments: this policy leads to tangible, well-being measures such as day by day, week by week reduces the likelihood of race and increases the security of the most dangerous people. Only in 2007 will more than half a billion dollars be spent on such well-being. Small kids look easy to breed in terms of both rice and roses. I myself believe that the red-green bet on a smaller breed should have led to more praise than rice. On the other hand, I am uncertain as to what is in the Christian People's Party's proposal. Probably there is neither rice nor rose, but writing in water. In other words, even if it had led forward, it would not have led to anything new. As the Council of State writes to the Committee, exactly what the Christian People's Party is asking: it's planned, it's being distributed, it's being invested. So the proposal for a Christian People's Party does not contribute to any new policy, more racial security or better well-being. The proposal only leads to this word change. And, as I said, it's okay -- more than that, actually, because politics is not just about bribery and money, but about stories. And the red-green story of effort and focus on racial protection stands out well, almost in both weather and wind. After the Lodalen crash in 1905, a postcard was created in which the motif was buried on January 20. It is a strong image and – 100 years later – almost tasteless. But, as mentioned, that time was such tragedy as happened; death was closer to life. Today, protection against race is a priority bet, which the red-green government takes on deeper seriousness and prioritizes far higher than when the proposers had the power and form to turn words into action. I think most people have brought it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1563	Initially, I would like to commend those who are behind this proposal for a representative, because it is important to raise the racial issue higher on the political agenda. The left is aware that funding issues fall within the scope of the annual budgets and of the national transport plan. In the left, we have increased racial protection by 50 million in the 2007 alternative budget. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. In the revision, we still have this escalation. I agree with the proposers in their assessment that we have new challenges, and that rapid and large anthropogenic climate change is one of the greatest societal threats we are facing today. With the expected climate change, there is good reason to believe that the race challenge is increasing. Temperature rise, more rainfall and more extreme weather mean that Norway will have more races in the future than we thought, other types of race and race in new places. Heavy rainfall is increasing, and heavy rain showers are often a trigger for race. More rainfall can lead to greater erosion in rivers, streams and slopes and increase the risk of soil and clay race. In view of this, it could be desirable to have a separate case of racial protection, a case that contains an assessment and identification of all racially dangerous sections and points, a survey that also includes the new challenges posed by anthropogenic climate change, and an overview of the economic challenges we are facing in the field of racial protection in total. In a conversation with older people in the West, I have learned that only in recent years has race been raging in ever new places. This is worrying and needs to be looked at with the greatest seriousness. We should, if possible, be in the forefront of climate change knowledge. This means that research efforts in this area need to be increased. This has also been taken into account by the Left in its budgets. We have major challenges in well-known races, such as: one of the most important links between Nordfjord/Sunnmøre and the East, i.e. rv. 15 on the Stryne Mountain. This is a stretch that has several closed days during the winter, creating great problems for the nutritionists. Often it is about fresh goods, goods that need to be found. Finally, after hearing the comments here today, I am sure that we have the same goal, namely to increase the focus on this important area. The next state budget and the roll-out of NTP must be given considerable attention. But the left – in line with the Christian People's Party and the Right – wants a map of racially dangerous routes, and a mapping that includes the new challenges posed by man-made climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1581	I'm pleased with the exposure that one in Stortinget shows through the discussion of Document No. The 8 here today. It's a shame that this exposure to the opposition's part first occurs when one is in the opposition, but nevertheless: it's an important and a good exposure. It's also a pity that one has not seen the commitment that this government has for racial protection, unlike the previous one. I understand that the representative Jan Sahl is honest when he says he doesn't want to discuss what funds are going on in the previous period and in this one. It may not put the Christian People's Party in any particularly favorable light. But it would be nice if he had been honest when he mentioned my letter to the committee, because in respect of the committee, of course, I have done the right thing for the distributions that are going on in my department, which I shall now return to. I mean, I think we have enough distributions, some are done, some are being prepared. What we need is, of course, the means of carrying out racial protection. Racial protection has been a priority area for the Government throughout the period, cf. also the Soria Moria declaration, where this is specifically highlighted. The government has increased the focus on racial protection, and the government has increased its efforts to protect the race. Racism is a subject that rightly has a great place in the change of words about road traffic and road development. I want to deal with racial protection in budgetary and planning work in a way that leads to results as monks. I can promise that the Government will give high priority to racial protection in the future. It shall show through the forthcoming draft budget and the forthcoming national transport plan 2010 to 2019. But let me add that, of course, the means of racial protection must be assessed in conjunction with the permissions of other measures to make road traffic as safe as possible. Reference has been made to the process of the previous National Transport Plan, in which the Government Party, together with the Progress Party, proposed increasing efforts for racial protection. Unfortunately, it was not followed up by the Bondevik II government in the first budget of the new NTP period. On the other hand, it followed up both in the additionalproposal and in the revised national budget for 2006. This has been referred to. It is possible that by saying this, I draw a line from representatives of the former government parties, who often get a little hurt when it is referred to their policy. But to anticipate it, these are pure facts. In the 2007 budget, the Government proposed something over the NTP target at the racial protection item, item 31, in addition to the pledges over the other investment items. A total of government funds in 2006 and 2007 provide a follow-up rate of 50 pst. in relation to the 2006-2009 action programme, i.e. an extended frame such as the Government Party and the Advance Party at that time. Work has now begun on the next national transport plan for the period 2010–2019. The plan shall show the challenges and propose resources and priorities to meet them. Climate challenges and racial protection are a central and very important part of etatanes and our work with NTP for 2010–2019. I have asked that transport modes at work with NTP for 2010–2019 expand knowledge of climate change, including climate change. based on new climate scenario undertaken by the Meteorological Institute based on data provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. After the fall of the West in the autumn of 2005, long before the public debate on climate challenges came, I gave the authorities the task of working to assess whether we see climate change, so that we have to change the way we both build and maintain the same infrastructure. In addition, we need to consider whether this means that racial protection must be given a higher priority in the forthcoming national transport plan notification. A report on the possible impacts of long-term climate change on the transport sector is under way. These conclusions will thus influence the priorities of the next NTP. As part of the process of reporting the same size, the State Road Administration is developing regional racial protection plans which will also provide a good basis for seeing the challenges, what resources are needed, and for prioritising racial protection measures. Research and development are important in order to increase knowledge of the impacts of climate change, and methods of meeting them. For this reason, we have this year started a long-term research project on this subject, a project called "Climate and Transport". This project will last over four years and will contribute to more knowledge on how to build a road, maintain it and operate to meet the challenges posed by climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1618	Now, in its speech, the Council of State has partly clarified one of the questions. I realized that she said quite clearly that we have investigated enough. We know what we need, it's about money. That's the way, I hope I can confirm it, that the $20 billion that is an estimate of what one believes is necessary to achieve a full and safe race protection is the right number. Then the main question that remains is what is the ambition of this government? Is that half a billion dollars a year for 40 years? Is it within the next NTP a 12-year perspective, maybe? Or do you have an ambition to get faster to race-proof roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1625	The ambitions of this government will manifest themselves in the big message to be submitted at the turn of the year 2008/2009. I do not have high-quality numbers from the national racial protection group, but I have previously said that I have no reason to doubt that those calculations are reasonable in accordance with the need. So the government's plan to meet this challenge is going to be connected with this big message. I for my part haven't started that work, but my etats do. We have met both with regional businesses and with all the municipalities in this work, and we will of course continue to have dialogue with them – and listen to the draft when we get that far. So the answer is that one has to wait until NTP to see how we meet the big challenge in the future. During this period, I am working to comply with the National Transport Plan, which was signed when the Progress Party was involved in the Majority Decision, and follow up the framework that lies there. That's the most important thing so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1634	It was the Council of State's claim that we were ‘injured’, which led me to take a line. No, we're not! We just want the whole story to be told when you try out a history description. It is such that the previous government had to use considerable energy and capacity to clean up the Norwegian economy. Yes, we also made a number of tax reliefs and tax reliefs. Among other things, we removed the entire investment fee, which has contributed to a lot of pressure in the business and Norwegian economy. That's what the government has put in place, which has given her the opportunity to bet as much as we want from the opposition. But now we see a falling trend. Does the Council of State agree that the great ambitions, which she might have had in her first budget, are now falling?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1641	It is always the case that a government inherits, and means to inherit, different things and different political situations in a country. Insofar as the history description of Halleraker's representative is correct, one must say that within the boundaries of the arrangements that this government must make, there was, after all, an equally large barrier to expanding as perhaps other conditions that one think were in the previous period. But I'll leave it alone. Once again, it will be difficult to answer the question concretely, because the ambitions that we set up are reflected in the budget, when it comes to the Stortinget, and not here today. But I've said, and I'm sure the ambitions are to have a bet on racial protection. Following up on the national transport plan is point 1, and if we do more than that – nobody would have dared to be at it, I think, before we started – it would be very good, but it is in any case a budgetary matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1650	An attempt is made from the position and from the minister to give the impression that the previous government was not concerned with racial protection. I showed in my article on the facts that we averaged in our years in government granted over 490 million. kr per. years for racial protection. Now it has been said from the government parties that 480 million have been allocated. kr in year. That means -- let's say -- that we're lying flat. Then I see little reason for rejecting a question about getting an investigation to the Stortinget, because it has been done so incredibly well in the economics of the new government in terms of racial protection. I think it is very positive what the minister has now informed about in relation to an investigation, but I will challenge her on the following: Why is it not possible that the Stortinget can get a briefing on this in advance of the NTP, so that we can take our precautions in view of what efforts we are going to have on racial protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1659	A process has been set up around the National Transport Plan and the Storting Message that I will present to the Storting at the turn of the year 2008/2009. It does not differ significantly from previous processes, perhaps with an extended dialogue with industry and with regional governance. There will be a special process for the Government in several areas. I assume that the Storting is also busy in areas other than racial protection – it could easily be a question of whether we should have such a discussion about aviation. By the way, we're going to put forward a strategy on aviation in the fall, but it's going to be a little bit different, which doesn't go into exactly the same areas. There may also be some other areas within the road sector, such as road safety. How, then, does one imagine coordinating this in a holistic way, if one is to discuss and adopt bit by bit in the Storting before submitting the plan? So I want to follow the plan of progress that we've made, and not go to the Stortinget with bit by bit, but with a unified priority in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1664	In a recommendation from the County Councillor in Sogn and Fjordane it is called: ‘The State of Sogn and Fjordane indicate that no means of repairing tunnels and racial protection are available on Rv 15 over Strynefjellet. Strynefjellet is one of the most important links between Nordfjord/parts of South Sunnmøre and Austland. The state Road Service is encouraged to find funds in 2008 so that this work can be started as soon as possible.’ This proposal has been reviewed by the Committee on Transport in Sogn and Fjordane and the County Committee of Sogn and Fjordane. The probability is great that it also goes through the county. We the Minister for Transport support this local initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1676	The Council of State has not yet set in motion the priorities of individual projects in relation to the 2008 budget, so I think I cannot give the answer to that today. It gets us back to the fall, but of course I will accept the recordings that are coming. This recording goes, as I understand, primarily to the debt bill, and then we'll see what the priorities are at the end when the budget is to be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1682	A little follow-up to the first line. We agree that the limits are DKK 20 billion. The main platform in the Council’s response in this case, as set out in the vote, is a reference to the upcoming NTP 2010-2019. So we're talking about the time to 2019. Then the question is, what is the ambition? Is it spending 40 years with a somewhat known annual priority framework as it is now, less than half a billion dollars? This will lead us to spend 40 years – unfortunately not unlike the situation we have on the national road network. But I hope that the Council of State can signal a slightly more daring ambition to have race-proof roads than to wait for 40 years. I hope I can get the confirmation of such ambition now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1689	There's something called a bird's hand that's better than ten on the roof. I don’t care – and especially not from Stortinget’s speaking chair – about me with ambitions. I like to come to Stortinget with handy results when the Government has discussed the different areas. That's the way it is in this case as well. There is no one who should be in doubt that the Council of State wants to bet on racial protection. No one shall doubt that the Government wishes to bet on racial protection, and that priority shall be given to a comprehensive national transport plan and weighted there. When it comes to not least what was the starting point for the discussion here today, i.e. the climate challenges, the need for extra racial protection will be an important basis for the discussions that the Government is going to have when we are going to make our final priorities. So the ambitions are big, and then we get back with the final conclusions when we present the big news.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1696	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1701	It is an important matter that we are dealing with today, namely racial protection. I think we all agree on that. It was nice to hear that the representative Jan Sahl admitted that he was humble. I expect that he is humble in relation to what this government has provided per person. the date of issue. It is nice that he comes with such a concession in Stortinget. Then I have to say that I don't understand why you're doing these exercises. The opposition had tremendous opportunities when it was in the government position. In particular, it could have been admitted that the national transport plan could not be followed. You couldn't, but that's what this government is about to do. During the last period, it was not possible to deliver – not on a municipal economy, not on racial protection, not on rail, not on the road. That's how I could keep going. And you couldn't follow up your national transport plan, with the Progress Party as a supporting party. You had a chance, but you didn't catch it. Now you try to imagine that you have so much more money. It's pretty revealing. I have said before – from this speaker too – that the height of the fall can be quite large, especially for the Bondevik II comrades, who were unable to deliver in the previous period. I think that if you had managed to take the break, you could have taken care of the Soria Moria statement and seen how far you had come in relation to the promises you made there. Then it could have happened that others, not only the representative Jan Sahl, had come with a condolences as to how far you have come in transport and in other areas where this government is now delivering. Then maybe the picture could have been a little bit more nuanced. Racial protection is important – not least it is important for housing and business in rural areas. Therefore, this government has invested in racial protection and will continue to deliver in relation to these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1716	There is obviously some other representative who sees very poorly right now! It kind of looks like a little bit of the debate too, because we all agree. All parties agree that racial protection is very important. All parties and representatives agree that this is a matter of welfare reform. It's about a good climate policy. It's about securing residents, schoolchildren, etc. It is about securing existing jobs and businesses, and it is about perhaps establishing new jobs and new businesses. Then my question is, why are we here today? Here I actually agree a little bit with the position. It is a bit sought that a resigned government immediately after its departure suddenly finds the opportunity to bet on areas on which it itself previously had the opportunity to bet. The party of progress challenged the previous government in this area too, without having the big impact. In this way, we stand here and stick in relation to whether or not we're going to make progress. That's how, as the representative Sortevik said, it's probably going to take 40, maybe 50, years before we get what we all agree on. The question then arises: Aren't we going to try to provide a welfare plan and quality of life for those who are on the roads today? Should we really wait 40-50 years? Schoolchildren, who are currently at risk of being exposed to a race, will be 60 years when we realize this hedge. That's what this is about. I agree with the Council of State that we do not need further investigations. We know the need. We can connect it to a climate plan, but we know that in some areas we can bet to a much greater extent. Then the question is, why don't we? That is what the Progress Party is trying to do through our proposal in the vote. Let's get a financial plan! Let's bring out appropriations in advance so we can start a process! Here, representatives of both the outgoing government and the current government are detained. In fact, I agree with the representative of Langeland when he comes up with some criticism of the outgoing government. At the same time, I question the fact that the same representative ends up attacking the Progress Party because we don't listen to people when it comes to climate challenges. That's exactly what the Progress Party is doing! We are the only party that has made proposals for action, not only in relation to national emissions, but also in relation to global emissions. We are the only party that has submitted a plan of action, while the current government disagrees so much that it does not actually come up with proposals for action. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1731	Now the glasses are in place, so that the vision is back! I'll never put them away again... I asked for the floor to link some thoughts to the contributions of the representative Tor-Arne Stroem. If it is claimed that the opposition parties and the Christian People's Party are wounded, it is clear that the representative Tor-Arne Stroem carries a great wound compared to the fact that this proposal has been presented at all. I can only understand that it must be due to a significant forgetting of the previous period, where the Workers' Party has done the same thing to a significant extent, namely to promote representatives' proposals. It's the opposition's ability to point to issues that we want to prioritise in the future. Racism is for the Christian People's Party a priority area. Then I would like to point out again that we have not asked for money. We are fully aware that it costs money. It must be included in the annual budgets. Our goal was that we could jointly raise this matter so that the Storting was also allowed to participate in discussing such an important matter as this one. I'm aware that we have a majority government, a majority government that can decide everything on its own. But as an opposition party, we are concerned that such an important matter as this would have been interesting to have been settled by the Government, which we could have taken up and discussed in common in the Stortinget. Then, in all humility again, I want to remember that the sitting government has not fulfilled the NTP yet. There are statements from here that could indicate that you've already met. There's still a significant lag, which we're waiting for is to be fulfilled. What I have tried to produce here from figures shows that the previous government – which was in a completely different economic situation and was supposed to stabilise the Norwegian economy – managed to generate 490 million on average over the four years. kr to breed protection per year. years. Government parties have informed us that this year, 480 million will be spent. kr. Then this effort is not so much to boast of in relation to what the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1742	When it comes to NTP and racial protection, we've met – and well so – NTP after two years. I expect that there is racial protection we are talking about here today, and then I have my words in mind. We've met NTP when it comes to racial protection. When it comes to the numbers Jan Sahl is operating on, I ask myself a little questioning about them – the high frame of 490 million. kr as an average. Item 31 is racial protection. In 2004, it was 181 million. NOK 184 million in 2005. SEK, 2006 SEK 311 million. SEK and in 2007 SEK 321 million. kr. But I can't make it an average of more than 350 million. kr annually. I don't know what a Christian People's Party has added. In 2005, if one added the goodwill, it was up to 490 million. kr – just enough including tolls. So if we start calculating it, we're going to have 560 million in the budget for the year. kr. This really seems to me to be a stupid debate, but at least it is important that you stick to the facts – and the facts when it comes to racial protection, find a good way at the racial protection point. When it applies to the Progress Party and requested a financing plan, I will comment on it. NTP has an action programme that is both a financing plan and an activity plan. In the same way as for racial protection, it is a little funny if we are going to put forward a funding plan six decades before we present the National Transport Plan for the Stortinget. I would like previous governments, too, to do – and hopeful – what the government has now done in 2007 both for road and rail, to use its NTP action programme as a funding plan and follow up with funds. That's how we can give people confidence that the political plans that are made in the Storting are not just papers, but actually something that you can stick to, not least in the state, which is also going to lay down your road development plans. The leap party boasts that they have a lot more ambitions, a lot more money – they have it in most areas. I hope people are starting to ask themselves, what does the Progress Party get from concrete policies in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1753	To the representative Jan Sahl: I am not hurt. I think it is important that this is put on the agenda; it is an important matter. I also come from Northland, a country that has a lot of race. I guess it's not for nothing that you're in the race group that's been put down and that's doing a formidable job. We've taken it seriously. Then I'm talking about the government parties. We've taken it seriously, and we're paying for it. It is possible that the representative Jan Sahl and I have different calculators, but if we go through what the previous government did in relation to the national transport plan, we could not fulfill it – including that with racial protection. Thus, the Council of State has now stated that it is in the process of meeting the national transport plan – one is at that level in relation to the item racial protection. I don't understand that you don't want to take it in, but still do the exercises you're doing now, and accuse this government of not complying with racial protection. I think that's quite eye-catching. You may disagree on different priorities, but when you look at it black on white, at least you could have been so generous that you could have said: that's good, at least you've come to the level of the national transport plan in terms of racial protection. We didn't do any other exercises in the last period. We created a national transport plan that we agreed on – the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. And then the Progress Party came and relied on us to comply with the National Transport Plan – 22 billion more than the Bondevik II government. So we didn't do any exercises compared to that. We have tried to do something and have taken on board what we promised the voters in the previous period. And that's what we're going to do now. I think you should sit down and look at this. Maybe we'll get more nuances in the debate we're having now. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that it was the Progress Party that supported us – to be right – so that we got a majority for the national transport plan that is there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1764	Yes, we supported a settlement in connection with the national transport plan, and then we also expected that the government would then follow up with appropriations on the road, where there already exists a lag of SEK 1.6 billion in this period, while the current government has taken investment and used it for maintenance. So, in line with that agreement, of course, it's not. One thing that I have to say that I reacted to was the state council statement under the lines. She thought it was pointless that Stortinget had some cases relating to a future national transport plan for treatment. I think it is a bit alarming that the Council of State almost rejects and celebrates the Storting out of the door, when one has a desire to get a case for treatment in Stortinget. I hope the Council of State can correct itself and perhaps moderate itself a little in relation to that kind of statement as well. I may have misunderstood. And then right should be right. In relation to the national transport plan, this government has fulfilled in terms of racial protection. The correctness shall be correct. But then it is that, after the adoption of the national transport plan — it is almost four years old — there has been a worrying development in the issue of race. That is why I believe it would have been the responsibility of both the magnificence and government to create a predictable and intensive financial financing of racial security. That's where we're trying, and I registered that the Council of State is not completely rejecting getting a funding plan. However, it should have been a positive approach to the national transport plan that the Storting has now taken an obligatory decision in relation to the forthcoming national transport plan, that a decision was taken by the Stortingen to now have a racial protection funding plan that follows up some of the challenges we face. It is simply about getting a commitment to it. The government made an extraordinary promise in 2006. My question to the Council of State is: are the appropriations for racial protection at the same level in 2007 as they were in 2006? It's important in relation to these statements that you step up and step up. My numbers show that this year we're spending almost 70 million. kr less on racial protection than in 2006. That's because the government that's sitting came with an extra appropriation in addition to Bondevik II's 2006 budget proposal, that's right – but if I've been wrong, I'd like the Council of State to correct it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1775	If I used the word «meiningslos» that Stortinget gets some cases for treatment, I will ask why. The size is in their right to ask for whatever things they want. When the majority in the Storting want it, the Storing gets the stuff they want. Nothing is meaningless from Stortinget's side. I'll make that clear. However, when it comes to the process around the national transport plan, it is at least difficult – let us say – to get a holistic plan, one way up the individual elements to each other, if significant areas in the plan are all bound up by decisions in the Storting. At least that's what I tried to say. Then it might not have appeared clearly enough. As I said, I can imagine that there are representatives in this room who have other areas they could also plan to raise and get a mandatory plan for, whether it concerns traffic safety or other areas. My intention was to say that we should have the opportunity to weigh the different areas against each other, which are precisely intended for the national transport plan, it is difficult to do so by a process where individual areas are bound by bulking decisions. When it comes to the rights, it is clear that the promises contained in the revised national budget are one-time. The frame is in budgetary decisions, and in the frame we are to be in relation to the national transport plan, after two years. I am very pleased, as I said, that the Government is committed to the national transport plan, and I have ambitions that it will also do so in the coming budgets that we are going to present. It's an important area we're discussing in Stortinget today. There are many around this country who feel insecure every day and must run on a racial road. How it can be felt to send their kids by the garden on the school with insecurity if the school bus can be hit by a race, I don't think anyone can imagine who hasn't done it themselves. For this reason, it is also symptomatic, of course, that those who have experience in those parts of the country where this is highly debated are the ones who are most concerned about it, even at the Stortinget’s pulpit today. But lifting this debate, as I said in the introduction, I am very pleased, and I hope that the commitment that has been expressed here today will be followed in a cross-political manner, so that in the national transport plan and in the forthcoming budgets we will receive cross-political support for a lift for racial protection, because it is undoubtedly necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1788	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3327]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1804	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1813	I would like to start by presenting, as the rapporteur on the matter, the content of the Committee's position, and then say a little about the Christian People's Party's approach to the issue raised by the proposers. The document makes two proposals. The first is to have a separate proposal on trials on free régionalisation of the four named régionalise detachment in Norway. Furthermore, the Government is asking for the necessary appropriations to be incorporated into the revised national budget so that the pilot projects can be launched in the second half of 2007. In the Committee's observations on the position, the majority, all except the Advance Party, refer to the opinion of the Ministry of Transport of the State Council of the case. The majority point to the fact that the Council of State will come back to the question of free ferries in the budget proposal for 2008 and that, in her view, it is the earliest realistic time for any reasonable clarification of budgetary and other matters relating to trials on free ferries. The majority also have no comments and suggest that Document No. 8:54 is annexed to the Protocol. The members of the Committee wish, on their behalf, to launch pilot projects in four counties. The reason I expect them to be included in the debate themselves. With regard to the Christian People's Party's approach to the issue of free ferries, we have previously expressed scepticism for such a priority of national road transport. We think the vast majority are most concerned that the ferries often go, that they drop cows and refurbishment, and that there is good capacity on the different connections. We think it's the most important prerequisites for road users to get along properly. However, when the Council of State announces that the issue of free ferries will become a topic in the context of the 2008 budget review, we look forward to it, because we are open to looking at the results of pilot projects. Good and thorough backgrounds of experience are important before we draw our final conclusions. Important factors that may determine whether free ferries should be current or not include: the amount of traffic increase it will bring, and hence the amount of capacity increase that will be required. If more ferries have to be built, this will lead to significant increases in costs and maintenance, which will also increase due to increased traffic and will result in large increases in the cost of the country for many years to come. In that case, the assessments to be made must be included. There are also many who fear that the consequences of such a free system will be that more road users will take the car on a ferry instead of using collective means of transport, which will lead to additional capacity needs and, in the worst case, longer queues. In this case, public transport may be the loser in such a project, and it is necessary to assess how collective societies should be compensated for the loss of income. We also need to listen to the business community in such a case and look at the question of free ferry services that business is most concerned about. I believe that the road system and safe and efficient development are more important for business than getting free ferries. A good ferry service and upgrading of the road network may be a priority rather than a free ferry service. These funds may be used for more urgent tasks in ferry and road transport than to finance free ferries. But it's going to be exciting to see the result of any attempts on free ferries, and the Christian People's Party will be involved in conducting trials, despite what I've now pointed out of things that could be the result of such an assessment. The most important thing for the Christian People's Party is regardless of the fact that the state ensures a satisfactory offer on the national roads, with sufficient capacity, frequent departures, predictability and without delay, and without the constant question of cows and resettlement. I refer to the Committee's position, promoted by the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The Committee urges the Stortinget to attach Document No. 8:54 Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1839	For the previous speaker, it is to say that you actually have to do some trials in order to get experience. I notice that the representative of the Christian People's Party is committed to protecting public transport and regards ferry tariffs as some kind of anti-mobility measure, but still says yes to attempts, just not now. That was a little confusing reason. The progress party will have free ferries. The Progress Party believes that the national roads are part of the national road – it is to be paid by the State. We're glad we at least have the Senter Party on the team. The program of the Centre Party states: ‘Risk road ferries are to be considered as part of the road network and should therefore in principle be free of charge, as they are in Finland and Sweden.’ In the Soria Moria declaration, this has rightly been rewritten. That's what it says. ‘Risk roads are to be considered as part of the road network and the costs for those using them should be reduced. The government will improve the discount schemes and investigate whether some sections can be made free of charge.» It's like school food. Or to stick to the terminology of this matter: there is a good ferry trip between the program of the Central Party and the Soria Moria declaration. It has not been completely free of charge to the voters of the Centre Party. The Progress Party is pleased that there is an investigation on the free use of ferries, which has been carried out by Møreforsking and presented in March of this year. The progress party is quite skeptical about the investigation's assumption that the free principle applied in all relationships will give a full growth in demand of 45 p.m. We doubt that a near-release travel activity, or the carriage of a car by road, will occur if the ferries are free of charge. Most people, besides the whole country, probably don't travel by ferry just for the sake of the experience. On the other hand, the progress batch agrees that, as the investigation actually recommends, test projects should be started using free ferries. The progress team would like to do this as soon as possible and believes that it is possible to get everything started in the harvest. Indeed, the party of progress thought that there was something the government wanted to do, cf. The quotation – The Government will ‘determine whether some sections can be made free of charge’. So the investigation is done, and it recommends testing different types of ferry service. So what are we waiting for? The progress party has pointed to four ferry connections in four counties: Rv. 544 in Hordaland, E39 – ferry service both in Sogn and Fjordane and in More and Romesdal – and E6 in Nordland. The sum of grants and revenues from these connections was approximately in 2005. 160 million. kr. 58 million. NOK 100 million was a grant. kr was revenue. Even with a traffic growth of 10 pst. the cost of testing free arrangements for these ferry routes for a period of three months in the harvest would be less than 30 million. kr. That sum adds the Progress Party to the revised national budget. This is a small amount of money for such an important experiment. It is allocated to four important coastal areas with a lot of ferry traffic. The practical organisation of the experiment should be possible for the department, road directorate, affected counties and ferry operators to be put in place until the last quarter of 2007. So we're talking about four ferry sections, and with that administrative apparatus, it should be possible to do it. Here it is the will that is lacking. The political will is lacking. No other batch supports the proposal of the Progress Party to launch a trial project. We find that both incomprehensible and regrettable. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1869	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1872	The right hand supports the Government's position on this matter in order to proceed cautiously. Why should I come back on the road, but first maybe a little bit of a historical perspective. It is true that there have been debates about being transported with ferries and the cost to users many times in this room – yes, almost all the way back until we started with ferries. At some point, a agreed decision was made that it would cost the same as driving the corresponding route on the road. It was an important principle that was taken into consideration for a while. The discussion was then up against Sweden, which had free ferries. Then we've seen a price rise in fares that over many years have been far higher than inflation. It has brought us in today's situation, where we have also received a passenger payment. Today, the situation is that there are 8-10 kroner for the cheapest trips and up to 25 kroner per trip. km for the longest journeys. So you could say that the original goal is left a while ago. The ferries represent a transport system that prevents and inhibits mobility and growth. There's two reasons for that. It's the cost of the crossing, and it's all the disadvantages of being ferry dependent. It is therefore a major, under-cover transport demand that inhibits economic development and growth, particularly in the districts. So I will dare to claim that ferries are yesterday's means of transport, and are not adapted to future demands and solutions for our business. The strange thing about ferry transport is that the theory of supply and demand is a little out of play. We've seen that multiple times. When, for example, have advance tolls on a ferry link, the traffic is not inhibited by it at all. It tells us that there is a large, suppressed transport demand among the users. The other way, however, is the ratio differently. It also shows the report of Møreforsking, ‘Free use of ferries — Some possible variants’, as it is called. Free ferry transport would provide a demand incentive we can hardly satisfy in either the short or the longer term, economically or materially. The research report shows 40 p.m. growth generally across the country. I actually think this has been carefully assessed, because there are also some mechanisms that occur along the way when one gradually establishes another transport system and a cheaper way of moving. So the 40 psts would probably increase sharply. However, the cost of ferry transport to users would undoubtedly be directly borne by the state budget, but then by the state that pays. I think that in turn would feed a debate on replacing many of these ferry connections by road, because it would burden the state budget considerably, and is so seen positive. But today we have a system that directly stimulates this through holiday relief grants for fixed connections, which is a good system. We support, as said, the Government on this issue and expect the Council of State to come back with the matter. However, I would like to ask the Right to ask that the test project with which the Council of State may come back is a type of connection which, in the foreseeable future, is not technically or economically likely to replace with fixed connections, precisely for the reasons I mentioned above. Then I also want, since I have a few seconds left, to link a comment to another aspect that I think is very important for users, namely to make today's ferry transport easier by transferring the AutoPASS system on the bomb roads to the ferry transport. There is no doubt that there is a success in the Fleak-Rørvik connection in the South Trøndelag, and it should be continued, at least as a step on the road to make ferry transport less difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1889	Today we are discussing a Document No. The 8 proposals from the Progress Party as a whole are a very good campaign scheme, because it takes into account different states where the Progress Party is represented, and a healthy home with measures on ferry links there. It's just a monkey with it, I thought, which is rogalending, and they're that the Rogaland Progress Party is forgotten in this election brochure. I believe that will be marked in the election campaign. I still thought it was a little strange to see – but it is also positive – that the Progress Party reads the Soria Moria statement, and then they find out that it was a good idea to try out free travel. I think that's a trick too. But I don't think we should rush as the Progress Party does, to reach this before the election this year, which is their point. I think we have to spend some time on this, which the Minister for Transport also suggests. I have nothing against the fact that the connection I have with most, the Tau connection, becomes a free project. Solevåg–Fesskool, which is one of the names here, or Smøla or Aukra – all these connections I have no objection to trying. But I think we have to take it easy, because there's a cost side of this. Maybe you need to do different things on different connections. A lot of connections would have lighted up very much if it was such that you had more people in the car, it was free for the passengers. Other links had been found to be cheaper for the trailer transport at night, so that the queue due to the food transport was moved partly to the evening. Such intermediate solutions also need to be considered when setting up this issue of trying out free connections — intermediate solutions that also work for travellers. The Halleraker's point was, of course, that one must have a way all over the place. I don't think that's the solution. The hardware bridge is the last error you made in that context. There we now build a difficult bridge that facilitates increased traffic in an area of Hardangervidda, which one should not have done. If you just think about it and you want to solve it all, not least in the West, tourists won't see much when they get to the West. Then, in such long tunnels, which Halleraker himself has the power to build, tourists are sitting in. They have to run up and down in them instead of sitting on the fjord and seeing the beautiful nature we have in the West. So there's no doubt that I didn't think it's so important to build all these underwater tunnels that the right side of Norway adds. On the contrary, it is important to keep some ferry connections, not least because of tourism, but also for many other reasons. It's e.g. It's very beneficial for trailer drivers to have some run breaks sometimes when they come to ferries, and it's very beneficial socially to have a place to meet and not sit alone in a car. There are many positive elements to take the ferry, but I'm going to start talking about Love's vacation trips. What I want to sum this up with from my side is that I want us to figure this out further, and that we get to try out free ferries. But first of all, it's important that we get a very good frequency, that we have a good capacity on the connections we have, not least on the Tau connection, where this government has actually done something. We have an open night ferry, like the Bondevik II government and Halleraker dropped. She's now open to me again. Now I want to get a new ferry there. But first of all, we need a ferry capacity and an offer across the whole country that makes people happy with it, not a new call for new tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1906	The progress party wants to try free ferry operations, and that's what's going to happen now. The funds shall be made available through the revised national budget. It's a little bit typical of the Progress Party. No other party could do it this way. It will obviously have economic consequences. I see that there is a need to strengthen ferry traffic. This government has already introduced discount schemes on cut-off cards, thus facilitating ferry traffic. There are major needs, as other representatives have been in the past, to increase the frequency, increasing supply. Therefore, it is in no context other than the budgetary context that one can look at the issue of free ferry services in relation to all other needs on the road, including the need to strengthen other areas of ferry traffic. I came in here and watched the end of the structural debate when it came to the fishing fleet. Then there was a discussion about the Progress Party's ideology and the progress party code. It's at least one thing that characterizes the Progress Party very well, and it's that they're for everything that's popular, regardless of costs. The sum of this is a government use of money that, especially in a high economic situation, will produce only one result: price and cost increases and increases interest and interest rates, with dramatic effects on business and most people. The progress party manages to present it as if it is so very unfair that the drivers are going to pay tolls, that we are going to pay on ferries, etc., because this is what the state is going to pay. It's kind of like the state is a being with enough money somewhere. But the state isn't me, as Louis XIV said. The state is we, and if we're going to spend more money in one area, we have to take it in on others, at least if we're going to stay within a somewhat responsible framework. If at all there is something that is the progress party code, it must be the code of the oil fund. The rest of us, who are to stay within responsible frameworks – we spend 70 billion dollars of the oil fund now – will meet all challenges in a completely different way from the Progress Party. Therefore, it is hopeless to have a constructive debate with the Progress Party on challenges to be solved in society. Free travel – yes, we would like that too, of course. But we need to see that in conjunction with other needs, not least on the holiday page. We see that the Progress Party refers to more research and distribution that has been done and uses it as the basis for its proposal. But where it doesn't suit them, that's when it says that it will lead to a very high voltage of 45 pst. And then with a cost of NOK 1.7 billion, they only say that no, they doubt – without having provided any more professional evidence of it. They're adding base 10 pst. and $1,350 million. kr, what they had to build it on. Otherwise, they refer to Moresearch, as well as to have a basis for the four concrete proposals for ferry services that they will undertake. If we're going to do something like this, at least we have to have a more thorough assessment of whether it's right to start with exactly these four ferry connections that this point to. It looks like – as the representative Hallgeir Langeland was in – rather suspicious of a need for a marker before the upcoming election. It is interesting to note that there is some agreement between the home address of the representatives who have made the proposal and the counties in which these links are located. Actually, I just miss Buskerud. Actually, a well-kept with the Svelvik-Work, so that Bård Hoksrud also had his ferry connection. The Labour Party agrees with what is stated in the Soria Moria statement that we're going to figure this out and look at the possibilities to get a trial plan started, but we're not going to agree to do this over the table right now. It must be seen in budgetary context and in relation to other needs that one might have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1923	For a centre party, it might be a rushing close feeling when the Progress Party comes forward with proposals for free travel attempts, and that this should be done already in the autumn of 2007. When they also write in the notes that this is important in order to introduce free national road ferries across the country as soon as possible, I should be euphoric. When I don't react like that, it's first of all because I think of a quote of A. H. Weiler: Nothing is impossible for someone who doesn't have to do it himself. Secondly, it's because the Progress Party with this confirms the suspicion I've had for a long time, namely that these representatives' proposals are often used to come up with the Government in advance of things that one knows are coming, to present it as if most of the initiative and action comes from the opposition. In this way, I get an association to visit the mirrored house at Tifoli, where one walks around and looks at himself – long in the mask and with the body distorted in all kinds of unrecognizable forms. Misunderstand me correctly: it's especially important to have an active, creative and constructive opposition, because at best, a team can combine the best of all parties and bring the country forward to new heights in this way. But an eternal struggle to appear like the one who's invented the powder himself, I can't understand is to develop politics. The fact that the Progress Party is trying to present itself as the leading champion of free travel is therefore reason to comment, because this has come after the Minister of Transport has seized the case from the very beginning of the government. She has ordered and received a report on free-of-charge travel attempts from Møreforsking as a basis for a trial to be included in the budget for 2008. As you can see, it is entirely unnecessary for the Progress Party to present this proposal now. If a ferry is to be called a ferry, this is about getting the government in advance and trying to get a powerful government council to act as a tasty and reckless. Holidays are an important part of the everyday life of people in large parts of the country, and business depends on these ferries to obtain their goods, to gain access to labour, etc. Defining the ferries as part of the national road network, which will be free of charge, would be a long step forward to make the conditions more equal for people and businesses throughout the country. Therefore, it is good that the Government has included in the Soria Moria declaration that such a free ferry attempt should be carried out as a basis for further assessments. New policies must be built on stone. The one stone was the report of Møreforsking; the next would be to have the experiment carried out. To do this, you have to find the correct layout and position of the next stone. decide how the experiment is to be conducted and on which ferry routes. That things take some time is actually sometimes useful to get the best possible quality on it – to get a good base wall, so to speak. The centre party has meant this with free vacations for a long time, so we are now looking forward to the free vacation attempt initiated by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1942	Holidays are important for busses and the development of businesses along the coast and in fjords. So the government wants to reduce the cost to users of the ferries. In the Soria Moria statement, we said that the costs for ferry users should be reduced, and that we would decide on some ferry routes free of charge. Fortress research last year was committed to making such a statement. This release was completed earlier this year. In the report, Møreforsking discusses eight different options with free travel – from free on all connections to free on the smallest and longest connections. The cost of the different options is between 160 million. NOK 1 700 and SEK 1 700 million. kr. In the report, Møreforsking recommends that free-of-charge travel be attempted before any permanent scheme is put in place. In Document No: 8:54 a proposal is made for a free-of-charge trip on four specific connections. I do not initially have any comments on the links proposed, although I hear what other representatives have said, and I have also looked at the addresses of those who have proposed them. However, I would like to point out that the purpose of test schemes is to learn the most about the consequences of making connections free of charge. Therefore, any relationship that might be most relevant to the collective experience must be assessed. I also think we should have a plan to carry out a survey of travel habits to get an overview of the impact of free travel on these. On the basis of this and other necessary pre-work, I believe that it is not realistic to start a free ride to the cottage already. I also note that accounting data from the fleet layers of the State Road Administration show a total revenue in 2005 of less than 102 million. apply to the connections proposed to do so free of charge. Since this is the 2005 figure, and there can be no escape from the need to increase capacity due to increased demand, this is likely to be at the lower limit of the annual cost of making these connections free of charge. In other words, the cost of making the connection free is so high that, in my view, a person cannot decide which connection is to enter into a probationary system, but also to decide on the costs as part of a comprehensive assessment of the rights of transport operations – in other words, this is also a budgetary matter. On the basis of what I have mentioned, I believe that this proposal is not sufficient to decide how a trial plan with free ferry should be implemented. I am pleased with the positive willingness to try out a free ride contained in this proposal. So I hope for a good dialogue on the future. The representative Halleraker made me aware of an option that was submitted about a previous document no. Eight motions for resolutions - Nos. 8:63 for 2004–2005 – where, as an alternate of the Stortinget, I was together with the Progress Party for a proposal to ask the dwindling government to provide an assessment of the introduction of free travel for users. The centre batch was never included in a proposal that included the introduction of cork sample schemes or permanent arrangement above the table. For this, the Center Party is far too responsible. We have good experience in sitting in the position and we know that a person needs to set things straight in order for one to land on his legs when one is going to implement them. As I said earlier, I will come back to this matter in the 2008 budget proposal. So a little comment on Sortevik's harelas about the Soria Moria Declaration and the Center Party's program. The Soria Moria Declaration is a compromise between three parties. The central party's programme is the central party's primary position. I am aware that the word compromise may be a foreword to the Advancement Party, but there is therefore a party that will implement something of its policy, not just be pure and rank and propose decisions that one knows will never be adopted. Hence, the Center Party's program is not listed in the Soria Moria Declaration in its entirety, but it is hardly far from it. The progress party follows up the report from Møreforsking without handling the case, but points out that it knows better than the researchers, especially when it comes to how much demand will increase. More research Is 45 pst., Progress Party 10 pst. No budgetary coverage is shown. In other words, this is also an irresponsible or unrealistic budgeting. I am pleased that the majority are well aware of what I have also said in this Chamber before, namely that a person will be able to discuss this in the context of the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1970	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1974	I want first of all to correct the last of several misunderstandings. That's the coverage. I said in my post that, in parallel with this case, the Advance Party is adding 30 million. kr in connection with the treatment of the revised State budget. It is in line with the original wording of the proposal and as repeated in the proposal. I can't believe it can be hard to understand. It is also the case that the Progress Party is well aware of compromises. In fact, we were in a compromise when it came to the National Transport Plan, an area that I believe the Council of State knows. I would like to ask concretely: how long will it be with the arrangements of the Council of State and the Government to put in place a trial of free ferries? And why do you have to spend so much time doing this, when it comes to limited trials on some sections?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1983	I have given the State Road Service a task based on some of the criteria set, to propose different packages that may be relevant for any attempt to get free of charge. It is also true that even if we have received a research report from Møreforsking, the Government, in this case the Ministry of Transport, will make an assessment of what is in the report, by going into a single area and quality assurance individual areas. We also do that now before I present this matter to the Government. We will come back to the cases in the budget for 2008, and then there will be a good opportunity to discuss them further. It's otherwise an interesting debate to attend today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1988	My reply to the Council of State does not go directly on the theme of free ferries, but a little bit on what I tried to pull up my post, namely this with Autopass on ferries. It requires that it is free for passengers in any case, so that you get a lot more comfortable on board the ferries. Today we see that at the most busy connections in the West, there is actually no time to make payment at the ferry stop. So there's an absolute need to develop the Autopass system. I hope that the Council of State will look at this again and perhaps not be so concerned with proven neutrality in relation to the total cost of the user, because that was what, among other things, was. stopped this last, by over-expensive transport of food. This should not be a burden on industry. Can the Council of State say if she still wants to look at a system of Autopass on ferries?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e1993	It's been picked up from some quarters and from the government's members in Western countries, if it's especially on the large connections that are now on gas ferry, it's time to look at this. I'm assessing it. I do not want to give you an exact answer. As I said, I have received requests for it and will see if it is possible, either for a limited area or for a wider area. The experience gained from this evaluation showed that the cost of transport for food was relatively high. There is a development that the Council of States does not want. If you want to go on with this, you have to find other models than what you've looked at so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2000	The left agrees that the first possibility of introducing trial projects on a free-of-charge basis in the case will be in the budget for 2008. The three months that the Progress Party wanted to commit would be too little time to evaluate it as well. That being said, we can imagine a test project, as also Liv Signe Navarsete has signaled. And then I wonder if one might think of trying a free ride in relatively weak connections, where there is a lot of support from before and free travel can be introduced without the need for a capacity boost, such as for Smøla, an island community without any other connection, and where a trial project has been applied for. Is there a thought to join?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2007	There's a lot of commitment around the country for free vacations and to get on a trial project, as well as from Smøla, and they've reported their interest in this along with a lot of others. There is no doubt that it is interesting to look at the connections that have relatively little traffic. The report also points out that there is one alternative to looking at these relationships, where it is likely to mean a great deal for nutrient development and availability, nor will the large capacity increase estimated overall in the report. I have not received the suggestions I have requested from the Directorate of Roads. They're going to give me different models of this. So I can't answer if Smøla joins if there's a trial project. The government doesn't have a position for that, so what we're discussing here today is premature. But, as I said, in the 2008 budget, I come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2016	Since I was accused by the Council of State of hoaxing with the Soria Moria statement, I'll have to take it too. I didn't. I just found that there was a significant distance between the Central Party's programme statement and what has been negotiated. That's okay. But the point was to show that there's a piece in between. I then take the opportunity to reassure the Council of State once again that what is the main objective of the Central Party is that the national roads should in principle be free, it stands firm – so that the Centre Party will continue to work for free national roads, just as the Progress Party will continue to work for free national roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2021	The centre party has no new national meeting and has not changed its program, so the centre party application is stuck. But it also states that the Center Party is part of a red-green government that has a document, the Soria Moria Declaration, which obliges me to direct the activity that I, the Council of State in this government, put up with my work after. And so it is. It's both loyal and solidarity to us, and it must be all the parties that are in government; if not, it will eventually be a complete chaos. However, when I – as I said from the pulpit – am very satisfied with the Soria Moria statement, it is also because it was not given that there should be one word about free travel in the Soria Moria statement, and that the option would be far worse for the Central Party than getting a point that 1, the ferries should be more reasonable, and 2, that we should have a deal about any trial project with free travel. In any case, if you had a serious way of dealing with this problem, you'd have to go that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2028	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2033	The journey is the road when the bridge or tunnel is not there. Thousands of people have to adapt to this phenomenon every single day. The ferry is, in addition to being a fjord, sea or ocean-going ship with space for motorcycling, a very important element in the scheduling of people around the coast every single day. Not only does people fit their everyday life after the ferries, but it costs people, and it costs business. Those who live along the fjords or on the islands have to charge an extra cost on the journey from a to b as a result of the journey. As I said, this applies not only to individuals, but also to businesses along our coast. I could use a little of this post to tell you a little about the traffic jams that have happened on some ferry trips around the coast after today's government and the Council of State joined, and how it has helped to make life easier for many of those who use the vacations daily. But today this is about the cost to the users, and it is about the vision that the Center Party has lifted in its programme, among other things. to do it for free to use the ferry. Then, in this debate, we are confronted with the question: Do the ambitions of the Central Party stand firm, and how do the Center Party's programme go up against the Government Declaration? I think no matter how the question is asked, it is to say that probably for the first time in history this is a theme in a government statement in the form of a test scheme – on some sections, correctly enough, but it is a theme for the first time. There was no theme in the previous government government statement. It was not of the things that the previous government's most faithful supporting party, the Progress Party, prioritised the three years they spent shaping the state budget. Of course, we in the Center Party are pleased that the Progress Party in even one area comes after and shares our vision in one thing. But I feel the need to challenge the representative Per Sandberg, who stood on this pulpit in the previous case and said it about such that it was sought to challenge a sitting government on matters one had the possibility of doing something with itself just a short time ago. Then the question of the Progress Party and Per Sandberg must be: is it only sought if it was the previous government that did it, or is it also sought if it is the most faithful supporting party instead of the government that does it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2042	I'll answer the last challenge immediately. The Progress Party is a continuous democratic party. The proposal on free national roads was discussed at the 2005 Progress Party national meeting in a heated debate and adopted. That we've followed the Center Party here is probably positive, and that's why we also had that debate. We did not have the opportunity to challenge the previous government on this, because we would like to have the party and the organisation with us on such a kind of programme change. That's how we do it in the Progress Party. That is why it becomes a little strange when it comes to the fact that the proposers belong to the states where the proposed tests are proposed. For the Progress Party, it is very important – and we see it as a strength – that the representatives affected by the proposals we are promoting are included in this Chamber. It is done throughout with regard to all proposals for representatives, all stowage proposals and all ostrich proposals. If our representatives are affected in some way, they are either co-suggested or informed and involved in the process of the batch. We're very happy about that. Then I notice that Rudihagen has registered that we are the only party that has reasonable solutions in terms of infrastructure. I just hope that it makes sense at some point, when he says he's happy that the Progress Party is the only party that takes this seriously. And so it is that I listen to what is said by the opponents of free highways – because that's what it is. My point – and the point of the Advancement Party – is that it is the government that has asked for an investigation into trials – through Møreforsking. And they've got the answer from Moresearch: Yes, it makes sense with trial. Then we propose attempts, in line with our program and in line with what the government has wanted. It's not right, as the Council of State says, that we're doing it without handling. Under point 1 of our proposal, we ask the Government to ‘propose its own deposit proposal for free régionalisation attempts’. After all, until the fall, the government will have the opportunity to investigate it – and then present it in a staging proposition. However, in order for the money to be in place for the autumn, it must be granted in the revised national budget. And we do that at the same time. That's exactly the right procedure we're going to follow here. Then it was claimed – and there I disagree with the representative Halleraker – that ferries are yesterday's transport. No, I think a lot of ferry links are actually the transport of the future. So there I agree with the representative of Langeland. I think that the focus on free riksveferge connection will lead to a less pressure on building tunnels. And I actually agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2064	I represent a state where ferries are daily for a lot of people, and where business is totally dependent on them – and have to pay to use them almost daily. That's why we, who represent the Progress Party in Sogn and Fjordane, have received requests from both people and businesses that think it's totally unreal that they have to pay an extra fee to take a ferry where there's so much distance on the fjords that it's hard to build a bridge over. We from the Progress Party in Sogn and Fjordane took this up at the national meeting that Per Sandberg pointed out. We managed to get multiple numbers so that this would be the Progress Party's policy. Following the 2005 national meeting, this was incorporated into the Progress Party’s principal programme. I am very pleased that our members of the Transport Committee have followed up the decision taken by the national meeting in 2005. I have to say that it is interesting to register the government party in the debate, where one on the one hand has very good arguments for free ferries, while one on the other hand indicates that the cost of the state will be very high. Yeah, that's right. This cost is now borne by people and businesses – because it also costs business to pay for holiday tickets. It also has an impact on rural policy and on each of our countries these businesses should be located. I can refer to a company in Sogn and Fjordane – Lerum Fabriker in Sogndal – that pays a lot for ferry tickets to their trailers. They have calculated that it would be so expensive that it would probably be profitable for them to move the companies from Sogn and Fjordane to Austland. It's just a loyalty relationship with Sogn and the Fjords that makes them still there. That's the problem we have in Sogn and Fjordane. I sincerely hope that the Government will make an adjustment in connection with the 2008 budget that is positive for free ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2079	The scheduled time for the morning meeting will be immediately available. The President proposes that the meeting should continue until the Odelsting meeting until today's map has been completed. - It's a note. The President then argued that the debate would not be so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2086	To the Progress Party, which asked a question - a proposition of your own to the house. As far as I know, Stortinget has a vacation until October. Then we'll put forward the state budget. I have said that in the State budget there is to be an assessment of whether we should initiate a trial scheme with free ferries. The best thing we could do is put forward a proposition in parallel with the state budget and deal with it in parallel with the state budget. This is going to be a little bit of a search. I can't find a whole reason for you to make your own proposition. It's a little confusing. I assume that such an important matter requires a certain amount of time in the committee, so it will probably take a few weeks. And we get out fast in November. If a decision is taken here in November, after all, a job must be done before you can start a free ride. How the Progress Party has thought that one should use 30 million. kr and handle this in 2007, is now a matter of its own. I see no reason why we should run parallel processes in a matter that is definitely a budgetary matter. I also don't know how the Progress Party has found 30 million. kr is what is needed. At least I haven't been able to figure out how much money is needed in the different models. I assume that one has been in and looked at the subsidies per person. today. But here, too, the Progress Party has created its own economic model. One says one has a statement from Moresearch. One sticks very hard to it. But at a significant point, that's how much the demand will increase with a free ride, the Progress Party finds out that no, it's not opportunistic, so we say 10 pst. Even if the researchers say four times as much. It's a little funny reasoning, when one else thinks that one can only use the report from Møreforsking as a blank agent and carry it out, without making any evaluations of the work that Møreforsning has done. It has been said today that one has received a report, he has been ordered, and he is ready to be carried out, without any further assessment. But at one very important point, you create your own fascination. When it comes to Åge Starheim's posts, I only have one comment on it, and it's very good that Åge Starheim got the Advance Party on such a decision, and that one comes, as the representative Sande said, after the Center Party. I hope that many parties will make such a decision. The center party has good program formulations, which is nice for one to deal with in the other party as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2097	I must say that I am very pleased with what the Council of State says. If it is the case that the Council of State wishes to make a proposal in parallel with the State budget, it is in line with the proposals of the Progress Party today. Then I don't understand why you can't vote for it. Obviously, it's not like we have a fasit. It appears throughout in our comments, in our proposals, that we have no phase. That's why we have to try. When we doubt the growth of traffic and what more research says, we have to try to find the answer. The faster we start trying, the faster we get the right measures on the different connections, as many people have said earlier today. Then I register – and it’s a little funny – that the Council of State points out in time if we’re going to deal with such a proposition for the harvest in parallel with the state budget. Linked to the situation that my committee is in, where we now get propositions and then a trial period of for a week – not just one matter, but several cases – I think it's an interesting discussion. It's not like 30 million. kr needs to be some insiders, but if we start trying – let's say we start trying in November – 30 million will. be sufficient to keep these trials running out of the year. Then the Council of State's budget will add to the budget for 2008, so that we can keep these attempts going in order to learn what we're thinking. In the previous debate, when we discussed racial protection, I and the Council of State were in complete agreement. Now we have to stop investigating, now we have to stop the thesis, now we have to act, where I and the Council of State agreed. That's what we're talking about here. It is possible that the Progress Party is much more impatient than the rest of the Storting, but we allow that to be. When our national meeting has given us a ‘go’ order that we have free national roads, our big crowd makes sure to present it as a proposal. I must also say that there is a revised proposal on Senja ferga. And there's nothing to suggest that this government wants some free Senja ferries. Because here the government has added 1.5 million. kr, but then it has said: No, there will be no more money to get from the state and this government without the county councils setting up. It's not about creating free highway connections, it's the opposite. One would like to express to the different communities and regions the long-term desire for free national road links. But I'm absolutely sure it's just the Center Party and the Advance Party that will make sure that happens. The central party is not doing it in this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2112	Just to make it clear: the first time we could put it forward, as I said in my post, is in any proposition at the same time as the state budget. As far as I know, Stortinget has a vacation until the first week of October. Then it's hard for me to understand what a mind is about having its own proposition. I'm going to follow what I've been saying all along, that this is what we're going to get back to in the budget for 2008, and that's what Storting has been notifying us for quite such a long time in different contexts. That's where I don't fully understand the reasoning when one runs this case. What we do with assessments is to look at the type of connection to be entered if one is to promote such a case. Is it the small connections on the coast that were named here instead? Is that the big ones? You want something from each of us? How do you put together such a package, if any? It's a rather demanding matter in itself, because it has a little bit of what device a would, to do, and what ratings you want to get tried. I'm going to go over with the Progress Party, which has always been an opposition party. It is then much easier to suggest than to sit in the position and also look at the long-term consequences of the proposals that are being made. A test project, if any, is about taking a height to gain the necessary experience to assess whether this should be permanent in the future. To be quite clear, we are returning to this matter in the 2008 budget. There isn't any of your own propositions for Stortinget. I'm glad that the plurality of this hall is consistent with such a procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2126	Per Sandberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2129	I'll be very short. The government has made sure that Stortinget has to work one more week, and I am fully aware of the holiday settlement at Stortinget. But I don't think the government has vacations in the same period, so it could be that the government made a deposit proposition. I am fully concerned that when the Stortinget meets again in the autumn, my committee will probably work hard to deal with the proposition that the Government had to make at that time, in parallel with the state budget. That's a little bit of a point. In that I have 30 seconds left: a lot of the debate has been about compromise as well. I record that when the Center Party and SV make a very difficult compromise, as they call Soria Moria, it is very sensible and serious. However, I record that when the Advance Party enters into different settlements, it is very irresponsible and unaccountable – les Oslopakak 3 and budgetary settlement with Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2138	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4 [[See page 3327]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2154	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3328]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2162	The increase shall now amount to a vote on cases No. 1 to 5 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2170	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 7 and 8, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 10 and 11, by Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 10 and 11, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Size Requests the Government not to carry out structuring for vessels below 15 metres.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to continue operating arrangements for fishing vessels below 15 metres, to assess the need for changes to the arrangements to ensure that it becomes useful as planned and to provide proposals to the Storting accordingly.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2207	There is a vote on proposal No 9, from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to step up its efforts and to establish a synergistic system to ensure flexibility as a substitute for the collapse of the operating system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2222	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the current system of quotas for the coastal fleet until the impact of the structuring of the coastal fleet and fisheries-dependent local communities has been fully assessed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2237	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the Government to refrain from structuring vessels below 15 metres, until the impact of structuring on the fleet group and fisheries-dependent communities has been determined.’ The President assumes that the Christian People's Party now wants to support the proposal of the Progress Party subsidiaryly. - It seems like it's a lot of enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2254	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size of the Government does not impose a retroactive effect on the length of quotas already structured.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the termination of the district quota system with effect from 2007.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size of the Government adds because structured allowances shall be time-limited’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Great Government maintained the quota measures applicable to the coastal fleet before the structural freeze on 20 October 2005.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the 2008 budget to establish recruitment quotas or other arrangements to ensure that young people enter the fishing industry.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to continue the current allowance system without a time limit’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2329	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on the national Road Race Protection Plan with priority to specific projects and committed State funding.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2353	We shall vote on proposal 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to present a separate case for racial protection. The case must include an assessment and identification of all racially hazardous routes and points, a mapping that also includes the new challenges posed by anthropogenic climate change. In addition, the matter must provide an overview of the economic challenges we face in the field of racial protection in total. The conclusions are taken into account in the further work on the annual budgets and on the national transport plan 2010-2019.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2383	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government: 1st@item: inlistbox Presenting a separate landfill proposal on free riksveferge connection trials on the routes: E39 Solevåg-Fessød i Møre och RomsdalE6 Bognes-Skarberget i NordlandE39 Lote-Anda i Sogn och FjordaneRv 544 Sunde-Ranavik-Skjersholmane i Hordaland. [[Hodnanes/Jektevik]] 2nd@item: inlistbox Incorporating the necessary appropriations into the revised national budget so that the pilot projects can be launched in the second half of 2007.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05.ana.ud458e2452	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Is there any need to speak in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is closed?
