ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e51	The President will propose that a seat president be elected for Odelstinget's meeting today and tomorrow – and see it as agreed. The president wants to make suggestions about Marit Nybakk. Other suggestions are not in advance, and Marit Nybakk is elected by consensus as the seat president for the meeting in Odelstinget today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e67	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers from the party groups and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e78	As we agreed in the Stortinget before today, this debate, in addition to the legislative proposal submitted, will address Document No. 8:61. I believe that the law has such a comprehensive and broad approach, including what is included in Document No. The 8-proposal, is concerned that I find it natural that, as the case-rapporteur for both of these cases, I am making a contribution where I have a general approach to both issues. But first we all say that this is going to be one of the most important days in Odelstinget this session. I'm proud to be part of the team that crosses the point of the government statement on the Justice Department. We'll keep what we promised. We have a government that is able to act and deliver. The reason why I'm saying that this day will be one of the most important in this session is that the bill we're going to adopt here today will be absolutely essential for the police to be able to solve more crime, both the serious, serious crime and what we call everyday crime. I believe that it is absolutely essential to maintain the confidence of the civil apparatus of power that we are able to increase the percentage of enlightenment. It is true today that we have a high percentage of clarification for the most serious crimes, while we have a far too low percentage of clarification for the less serious crimes, such as crime. Winning crimes. It's been around 20 pst in the last few years. in clarification, and it is too low. Although this is not of the most serious type of crime, it is perceived as frightening and offensive to those who are exposed to it. In this context, there is reason to be optimistic about getting a significantly higher clearance rate with the expansion of the use of DNA. Numbers from England show that the clearance rate increased from 14 pst. up to 45 pst. in things where you can connect DNA tracks to a DNA register. I very much hope for such an increase also here in Norway. I'll use a little bit of my post to explain what we're actually doing with this proposal. So we're going to have to expand access to register DNA profiles in an identity register. DNA profile in this law means an analysis of biological material, such as: hair or spit, to establish the identity of a person. It is important to say in this context that we should not store any of the biological material. This has been one of the points where there has been a disagreement in the preparation of the law. But now that we're not going to store biological material, you could say there's no fundamental difference between this register and what's today called the fingerprint register. So the DNA profile can be described as a genetic fingerprint. We lower the threshold so that the law states that anyone at risk of imprisonment can in principle be registered in the identity register. Nevertheless, an overall committee is pleased that the Government’s legislative proposal provides for guidelines to be drawn up for who should be registered. The Committee considers that it is not natural to include in the register all types of offences that could lead to a detention penalty. Examples of this may be a breach of the Road Traffic Act. Furthermore, the Committee is pleased that the legislative proposal also provides for central funding for the use of DNA analyses. It is important that such a central tool to solve more crime should not be the subject of an economic assessment in each police district, as it is today. An important issue that has been extensively debated along the way in this matter is the time at which you should be able to register the DNA profile in the identity register. The bill states that a judgment must be given first, or that the case is finally settled. The Committee fully agrees with this. But this also has a side that leads to the police in some cases not being able to take advantage of the knowledge that the police already possess, because it may take a long time from a case to a final decision. This, along with the experiences we have heard from, among others, Sweden, is the background to the Committee asking the Government to come back with a case to set up its own investigation register, so that the police can better coordinate the information we already possess. This will also be an effective tool in matters where the perpetrators are active in more police districts and are behind many cases, and it will also be resource-saving for the police. I really hope that the Council of State can give some signals as regards this remark today. There are a number of rules and conditions attached to the bill. Examples include rules on how to apply in the register, who can apply in the register, deletion from the register and processing of personal data. These are rules that are now governed by the Criminal Procedures Act and the Public Prosecutor's Instructions. The Committee is pleased that the Government's legislative proposals state that these are rules to be incorporated into the new Police Register Act, which it is now working on. This will also lead to long-term regulation and instructions being incorporated into the law. If we are to achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves with this bill, it is essential that the police receive more training, that we increase the analytical capacity, that we get new equipment and that we provide money for central financing. I think it is particularly good that we have already adopted this. Monday, about a week ago, we allocated 64 million. NOK to this. This is money to be used just to increase the analytical capacity of the Forensic Institute through increased manning, expansion of premises and the introduction of data support for DNA processing. It is essential that communication between the police districts and the Kripos and the Forensic Institute function well when both the uptake of DNA issues is increasing and quality assurance measures are to be intact. As the awake president has probably noticed, I have so far not highlighted any disagreement between position and opposition in the post. This is because we are united behind the government's proposed legislation. But at one point there has been a great deal of disagreement, and it goes on who is going to carry out the analysis of DNA in criminal matters. Here there is a real disagreement between position and opposition in the committee. It's also at this point that we disagree with Document No. The 8-proposal from the Right. In the case of the law, the position has written a note together with the Progress Party that we are to keep the criminal case chain under public control on a principle basis. Government parties believe that this obviously also applies to the handling and analysis of DNA, because it has such a great potential significance in criminal matters. From this point on, the Right has been able to get a comment where they accuse the government of being against a particular private laboratory in the Stavanger area. I find this very special, because we have not in a single word described this environment or other private environments at all. So it's like taking income for opinions you don't have, and I think that's very strange. But what I want to say in this context is that if we get the same development in Norway with this bill that we have seen in other countries, there will be a strong growing need for a second opinion environment in criminal matters as well. Here, I think, the private actors too will have an increased demand from the defence side in criminal matters. We have nothing against that in the position. But it's a different principle debate than that the prosecution should privatize parts of the evidence management. The need for a second opinion environment, together with the need for increased analytical capacity and the possibility to receive this training of competence in Norway, is the background for the Red-Green Justice Members to ask the Government to consider setting up such a race at the University of Tromsø, because they already have good training courses on other types of DNA use, such as: medical engineering. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on these two issues. I'm glad that there's an overall committee that stands behind the submitted bill from the Government, and I would advise Odelstinget to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e112	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e115	The representative of Breen has made it clear that in the context of this legislative change there will be an increased need for analytical capacity, at least the need will be doubled. This is something that RMI does not have the capacity to do today – it also fully agrees with the government parties. Today, we have a laboratory in Stavanger that has capacity, and in Rogaland's newspaper on Saturday, the representative Breen said that they 'have nothing against GENA', and they are sure that with this new investment, GENA will be 'getting bigger'. Then my question is to the representative of Breen: What action will Breen take to: GENA, that is, the accredited laboratory, can be able to access analytical capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e120	I tried to shed light on some of the issues in my main post now. One thing that is said there is that we have already committed 64 million. kr for next year’s budget to build up analytical capacity at the Forensic Institute. I also explained why the position believes it is essential that evidence management should be kept under public control. It is simply a principle position in relation to the fact that the criminal proceedings chain is to be governed by public law. As far as the GEN environment is concerned, it is natural to assume that there is the same trend in Norway as in other countries that have introduced similar laws, where there will be a greater demand for a ‘second opinion’ from the defence side. That was the increase I said a few words about in Rogaland's newspaper, which the representative has clearly read – that I imagined they could also get more enquiries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e127	Forensics Institute, RMI, plus the environment in Tromsø, will, as the majority say, provide sufficient overall analytical capacity during 2008. Can the representative of Breen define what is contained in the concept of operational in relation to the environment in Tromsø? He considers it sufficient that Tromsø might handle approx. 10 pst. of the analytical work, provided that operational then means that local, competence, accreditation, etc. have been put in place. And can the representative Breen possibly guarantee that sufficient analytical capacity is in place at the RMI during 2008, if Tromsø is unable to cope with the assumption either. as they themselves have said they can handle during 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e134	Firstly, we have already allocated money to it on next year's budget. 10,000 new DNA profiles have been taken into account. It is intended that the Institute of Forensics should initially deal with the increase, which is thus a double in relation to today's register. The majority of the Committee has pointed out that there will be an increasing need some years in advance. In Sweden, a four-fold increase occurred in the first two years. And that's in relation to the challenge we have then pointed to the Tromsø environment as a possible alternative, for two very important reasons: one is that we in Norway today do not have any educational pathways for legal genetics. So we have to go to England or other countries to get that competence into Norway. We saw an opportunity to link the medical engineering in Tromsø up to the education in forensics. There may also be a healthy academic second opinion environment in addition to the Forensic Institute, and we also pointed that out in the note. But it's not decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e141	I would like to repeat the question of what is included in the term operational. It is said by the majority that Tromsø will be operational during 2008, and I would like to have a clear definition of what operational means. To be able to count Tromsø as operational means to have premises and skills in place, and to be accredited and ready to carry out the necessary analytical work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e146	The background to that is the consultation we conducted by standard legislative procedure. There were two people from the University of Tromsø who said that what they needed to become operative on forensics was two people who could take a six-month run in England. They are already medical engineers today. They were the ones who said they could be operational during August. So that's the information we have based on in that note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e151	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e155	I actually thought I would start this article by really boasting of the Government. The progress party is incredibly happy that this matter has now come to Stortinget, and with such good content. For the Progress Party, this has been an important matter for a long time, and we have made proposals on this earlier without hearing about it. So once again, if anyone is in doubt, the Advance Party will give praise to the Government that has finally presented this publishing house. This expansion of the use of DNA records is a very important tool if the police are to have the opportunity to combat crime. It's important to get this bill change in place, so that the police get the opportunity to increase their efforts in terms of DNA. Such a change of laws will help to clarify more criminal acts, prevent crime and not least create a safer society. This shows all experience from other countries. In particular, a United Kingdom may indicate a significant increase in the percentage of clearance in terms of profitability. An important instrument to make this law work is funding. It's great that the government in next year's budget has set aside $64 million. This is not enough, but the Progress Party does not think that this is enough. DNA registration must, as the Progress Party sees it, be fully funded in the future if one is to have the desired effect of legislative change. In this way, you will also have equal legal certainty across the country. As the situation is today, the economy of the individual police districts is determining how many DNA samples are being taken, and it's not sustainable. The success of success is that the police have enough resources and skills to get safe tracks. Without that, the law change will have little function. Everyone knows that the evidence doesn't come to the police by itself. When the Storting today adopts this legislative change, and one aims to have the effect of increasing the use of DNA registration, the analytical capacity needs to be expanded. The situation today is that the analysis work is a bottleneck. Former State Secretary Anne Rygh Pedersen himself said that she was not satisfied with today's situation, and that the police often had to wait too long for answers. Norway is now in a sluggish state in the Nordic region for DNA testing. I dare not think about how long it would have been if UDI had not been able to buy their services from private suppliers. Everyone is aware that last year the UDI announced a tendering process and that they are using a British laboratory for DNA analysis in family reunification issues. This bill will lead to a multiple doubling of DNA samples in criminal matters, and we know that the capacity to analyse DNA traces is detonated. The proposed expansion of the DNA registry will result in a much greater need for analytical capacity than today, and my question to the Council of State is how he intends to deal with this. With a goal of increased use and faster analysis, the Party considers that it is necessary to allow other accredited laboratories to carry out the analysis part. Such a laboratory, GENA, we have in Norway today, and it could be a supplement to the RMI. Lawyer Bernhard Halvorsen said to the Police Forum in June: ‘Norway has got its first competitor to the Forensics Institute, which I believe is something that both the public, the courts, lawyers and others are well served to welcome. It is important to ensure legal certainty that peak competence in this area, both in terms of analysis and in terms of legal expertise, can now also be provided by others.’ Then it's with amazement one hears the Joint Chief of Police Arne Johannesen pronounce that he fears private DNA analyses. One would think that the police would be concerned with resolving crime as quickly and efficiently as possible and not wait for months for DNA response, as they have to do today. Just think about the burden on the victim to wait several months for a DNA response. The report from the project group, led by Bjørn Hareide, is interesting reading regardless of the point of view. The report clearly states that a need for a short-term solution now is needed until a person may have wanted to organise, and that in the case of DNA analyses, use should be made of any analytical capacity available in our neighbouring country. The report also says that by opening up the use of private suppliers, a safe low price can be achieved. It will help to facilitate the acquisition of «second opinion» and, last but not least, through the invitation to tender and contracts, the police and prosecution authorities will be able to lay down specific requirements for the supplier, in particular on quality and efficiency. The Progress Party believes that both competence and capacity need to be strengthened in Norway. We believe it is important to ensure good competence and national knowledge in the field of forensics. Although the Progress Party believes that there is a need to open up more actors to carry out DNA analyses, we will nevertheless conclude that it is important to strengthen the RMI, and not least to have RMI accredited. RMI has had a monopoly on DNA for 20 years. At that time they have not been accredited, even though very strict quality requirements are required for such analyses. The RMI is also part of the University of Oslo, but it has not taken the initiative to set up an education offer in legal genetics, so that the necessary competences can be safeguarded nationally. The RMI is not organised as the modern high-capacity laboratory that is needed to manage the multiple in DNA analyses to the police that is expected to come from next year. Nor does the RMI state that it is preparing for what is now coming, contrary to what the State Criminal Technical Laboratory in Sweden did before the corresponding legislative change in 2006. We cannot have such conditions, and therefore it is important that the accreditation of the RMI will be prioritised. It is important that Norway retains the capacity and competence of forensic medicine. There is not enough political will and money on the state budget in 2008 to focus on increasing the use of DNA analyses to achieve the objective of effective crime prevention. There is a lack of qualified laboratory services to implement this major bet that becomes the bottleneck. Or rather I should say it this way: there is a lack of willingness of the majority government to use laboratories other than the RMI. The analysis capacity of DNA needs to be expanded in order to be able to accept and process the increased number of trace samples that will be produced after the change in law that we get today. With a goal of increased use and faster analysis, the Party considers that it is necessary to allow other accredited laboratories to carry out the analysis part. It is therefore disappointing that the majority parties did not vote in favour of the proposal in Document No. 8:61 for 2006-2007 before today. The change of laws we're facing is incredibly important, and we're going to have an incredibly important time meeting next year. It is therefore gratifying that an overall committee is behind this attitude and this change in law. So now don't let the question of who is doing the analysis part destroy. We must stand together to fight crime and give the police the tools and resources they need, and not least ensure that DNA analyses are tested as quickly as possible by accredited laboratories, for the benefit of the police, and not least for the benefit of the victim.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e205	It is the case that the Progress Party and the Position Parties have signed up on a principle note, where the Progress Party agrees with us on a principle basis that the criminal justice chain should be exercised under public law. My problem with that remark is that it is not related to the comment where the Progress Party wants evidence management, for example. DNA profile management, can be privatised, can be launched privately. What does the Progress Party actually mean? Is it the case that they do not regard evidence management in criminal matters as important enough for there to be a fundamental clarification around it, or is it not at all part of the criminal justice chain? I want the representative to know what they really think about the principle that the chain of criminal law should be under public control.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e212	It's absolutely true, as Thomas Breen says, that we have written together with the majority parties about a comment when we want to stress that the strictest enforcement of government is a public task. With regard to the analytical bit itself, the Progress Party has no problem that if there is a legally accredited laboratory that can carry out that piece, it is quite ok for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e219	One of the main reasons why we're not going to keep the biological tests is because we're afraid they'll be applied to research in the future. When we have a large database of convicted criminals, someone can be tempted to research into finding common things that characterize a criminal, for example. A murderer. What is the Progress Party's view of such research today? If they're against it, why should we believe that they don't turn around in this case, as they usually do after a while in other cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e226	We have a change in the law up to treatment today where it is decided whether or not to allow research. The progress party is clearly at the setting that is being treated here today. We are not going to change anything on it in this round, and we have not been informed by the Council of State that there will be any new changes in the law in the next few years when this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e231	I will follow up on the answer given by the representative Horne to me on the previous question. You're saying that you agree on a principle basis that the criminal case chain should be under public control, but at the same time you're saying that it's okay to privatize the analysis part of the DNA profile. Does this mean, then, that the analysis part is not seen as an important evidence management?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e238	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e241	The most stringent enforcement is a public task, but I also want to point out what is happening in England, where the police are securing tracks, just like you do in Norway. They deliver the test piece to private laboratories themselves. They can then control the quality, and they have faster delivery on it than they have from the public. As the Progress Party sees it, we have no problem with the actual piece of analysis being done by another laboratory.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e248	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e251	Then I can enjoy all those who have not seen handball, that we won 35–24 and are further in semifinals – that is what is done. The case rapporteur and then the Progress Party have well explained the importance of expanding the so-called DNA register and have made it clear that this is a purely identity register that will facilitate investigations and could contribute to a higher level of detection of crime, without the government, professional communities, hearing bodies or the DNA committee having found privacy considerations against which doubts may arise as to whether this is right and proper to implement. A few have raised objections along the way, but these are mainly based on assumptions, which in turn have been based on a general fear and experience that personal data may be compromised, or a general skepticism that we leave more and more information in the healthcare system, with the possibility of abuse. The last is a debate that the Storting should take seriously, not least in relation to the work of the Data Protection Commission and the insurance industry any later. But it is less appropriate in relation to what is the matter here today. The DNA image – if we can call it that – can be described as the modern form of fingerprints and can also be equated with that principle. That is also why the Committee unanimously supports the text of the law as it stands. I think the law itself is a good piece of work on the part of this government, several governments and the majority of the population, and it will be an important tool for police and prosecution in the future. Although good things can't be said many times enough, I see little reason to repeat 90 pst. by the statements or observations made by the rapporteur in the vote. After all, it's almost Christmas. In relation to the wishes for Christmas and the new year, the entire committee has the same wishes and intentions, namely that the law should work according to its intention, and that the millions already approved in the budget should contribute to increasing the use of DNA, faster and better research and more convictions. It is also agreed that it is important to facilitate ‘second opinion’ in order to provide a healthy academic competition. I think there is reason to commend the government parties for supporting our proposal on this in relation to the environment around the University of Tromsø. And it must be said, as an unhesitating comment, that the ongoing fight in the North Lights on which representatives from North Norway were first out with that proposal, is the phase of the report from the Stortinget on 29 March this year, where proposals were made by the representatives of Aspaker, Höie and me. It was only recently also expressed by the government parties, but the point is however that there is a broad consensus now that it is important to develop «second opinions», and then also in Tromsø. The question is, however, about this concerted political will in the form of 64 million. kr and the law adopted today will actually lead to what we all want. The environment in Tromsø stated that they could be operational in 2008, which is something to be hoped for. However, there is also reason to ask questions, not least after the exchange of lines with the case rapporteur in place, about how the Government intends to follow it up, because in the concept of ‘operational’ at least we believe that accreditation work must be carried out, the building of competences must be done, and preparations must be made, so that the management of analyses can be carried out at least during 2008 in order for the environment to be described as operational. The majority assume that the combination RMI and Tromsø will be sufficient to deal with the increasing sample size that will result from today’s legal extension. I note that the government parties cannot guarantee that Tromsø will be operating in 2008, nor do they have any special feeling that it is enough that Tromsø might cover 10 pst. And only North Norway in its part of the work, with the queues and processing time you already have today, before we expand the DNA register. I had actually asked the case rapporteur to comment on this and had intended to ask questions about it, but I guess I got a real answer in the reply, that it has not been thought of by the government parties. You have sold to Nordlys, but you really didn't think anything special about it. But I have a challenge, and there's one question I could imagine asking the government parties: if, for example, we did. assuming that GENA is publicly owned to a greater extent than at present, would the government parties be able to use this environment to implement the intentions of the law? As the majority comments now emerge, they can be seen as a slight artificial increase in the quality of research carried out at the universities of the country and a denial of the scientific research institutions in the rest of Norway, including those in public ownership. I then record that the majority sees it as problematic that GENA, which is engaged in analytical work, is private time. I am asking for an answer as to whether the case rapporteur and the Council of State can guarantee that there is sufficient analytical capacity in Norway from next year, without having to apply to abroad, or whether you can be willing to use laboratories in the course of the journey, for example. GENA during a transitional period, perhaps buying up in GENA so that it is publicly owned, and these principal counter-representations may be lost – for the benefit of the police, prosecution authorities and the public. For the Right, there is no ideological point that analytical environments should be neither private nor public owned if quality, legal certainty and professional standards are crucial. For Storting, it is unknown how the RMI is compared to the preparations for a possible multiple in 2008 tasks and how they are compared to being accredited. We need to find solutions that make us use the total resources more efficiently. We need to cut the unnecessary use of custody prisons, and there needs to be professional corrections that increase legal certainty – and that has to be done now. It assumes that the Stortinget is presented with facts such as the cost of the RMI, the number and types of forensic statements and productivity. In reports to the police director, for example, not RMI’s productivity monitored at all. Then I'm really wondering, what is the government based on what it gets for the money today, when you give $64 million. new kr to something you do not know about the effectiveness of? And is there any indication that the control and overview will be improved by RMI becoming a state laboratory with direct allocations, and that the single price system will cease, as desired by the RMI itself? It was thought that there was a strange remark on the part of the minority in relation to mentioning that there had been negative attitudes towards GENA. It is a little difficult to perceive it in another way when you are extremely positive to an environment that has not been accredited in 20 years, has not taken the initiative to establish a direction of study in legal genetics, but you do not have the corresponding positive attitude towards an environment that has done the opposite thing in two years, because it is privately owned. That's what's special about that case. I could also imagine asking if the Norwegian administration would have been better or worse in Norway if there were no private hospital services, including laboratory analyses today. How expensive would it be, and how long could one imagine that it would take, if there was only one official laboratory taking such samples? There is a question that the majority does not answer, but they are behind a general remark that the criminal procedure should be under public control. The criminal case chain is and must be under public control, even if the analysis is carried out by an approved laboratory. Right does not want to privatize the criminal justice chain. Finally, a proposal from the Left has been distributed, which the representative of the Dørum will explain afterwards, but I would already like to inform you that we are asking for that proposal to be considered, if the Government is also open to it. Finally, I would like to say that it is an extremely important reform we are adopting here today. It's in line with the grooming paragraph, and it's in line with the terrorist legislation we've adopted before, it's absolutely fundamental. There is also reason to commend the proposal for a law for consideration. The challenge is, the Right Party and the Advance Party, whether or not you're able to realise the intentions of the law at all, if you don't have enough capacity to handle the multiple sample that will come, when you use DNA in a more active way than what you've done today, where there are long queues, long processing times, and the police and prosecution authorities are screaming for faster answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e288	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e291	I noticed that the representative in his statement stated that the criminal case chain should be under public control. Then I find it strange that the Right, as the only party, is not part of this remark in the life we've been working on for quite a long time. My question is whether he can confirm that it is a mistake that they are not included in the comment, because it concerns only one point. That's the one question. The second question is, if he thinks it should be under public control, does not the representative then see evidence management as so important that it should not be under public control? I don't get it. For me, there's a logical flaw here, evidence management can be privatized, but the rest should be in public -- I don't understand that logic. So if the representative can explain to me what he really means, it would be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e298	The president interprets it so that 'life' means his/her vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e301	The representative of Breen admitted that he has spent a lot of time working on this matter, and spent a lot of time writing the comments. I also expect the representative from Breen to follow up on what the representative from the Progress Party answered instead on a similar question. That was a good answer to a somewhat unclear question. I can just repeat what she actually said. It's also like if you're looking at the setting, you'll see that we're saying the exact same thing, it's just that we don't want to be involved in comments that say that you exclude private analysis. And then I have to ask questions back, which the rapporteur can answer in a later article: How can it be that you have a completely different principleal attitude to sending e.g. DNA analyses in foreign affairs/family reunification matters to England, where appropriate private laboratories? There I have a lot of trouble seeing the principle attitude you're trying to adopt here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e308	I noticed that the representative Dahl tried a little explanation with regard to what was said or not said. So I'll make a quote from the comments to the right: ‘Rights finally refer to their comments related to the stamping of already existing professional environments by government parties, such as: GENA in Stavanger.’ This has also been used in the media. The Labour Party and the Government Party have nothing against GENA, but we believe in the principle that the whole chain of criminal law should be public, which the case-speaker has done well. My question is very simple: Where in the comments do we mention and stamp GENA – where?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e322	It is paradoxical that a public-owned institution that has failed to become accredited for 20 years cannot demonstrate that it operates cost-effectively and has not taken legal genetic training initiatives. I think it's special. That's the attitude you've had in relation to GENA's repeated call for permission to come in here. You have not written it in the comments of the majority, but there is no doubt that differential treatment is given to the RMI, which is significantly less fit for analysis than the actual GENA is, in relation to being accredited, in relation to establishing educational provision. I thought, after all, that quality was the most important thing for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e327	I understood at the representative André Oktay Dahl that Right had gone in order for a legal genetic laboratory to be set up in Tromsø, and that the date of the idea could also be fixed, namely 14 April in 2007, on which Dahl explained that they do not think they have the capacity to do it or could not get started in 2008, and that these are functions that others would prefer to take over. Could you get a more precise answer from the Right? Because if you went in on April 14 to set it up, maybe with a little bit more enthusiasm you could also now argue that it should actually be done. Is it that right goes in for it, or is it that the right actually is a little bit lukewarm?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e334	It's true itself, since the Right was the first party to mention this environment at all, and it first entered as part of the final reading of the committee and in various speeches in the North Light. But there is reason to note that there is a majority in this Chamber, who are in government, who have not yet been interested in working for Tromsø. We've pointed that out. And I assume that the Government will make sure that the intentions that you have with the remarks that it will be operational during 2008 are followed up, that you will grant money, for example. in the revised national budget, ensure that there is sufficient competence and that an offer is made in addition to what is, with one person, who may travel to England and receive a small course. Of course, that's not enough, but if the government is making a commitment to implementing the things that have been mentioned, for example. in the North Lights, I am very sure that it will be completed. And we're going to applaud that from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e339	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e342	We're working for an overall fight against crime. Providing security in our society is a public responsibility and a welfare issue. The government's goal is to prevent better, clarify more, react faster and rehabilitate better. The fact that the Government has now proposed to legislate for extended access to registration in the DNA registry will be an important element in achieving the objective of the Soria Moria Declaration. Over the course of five years, DNA has become a key word in police investigation into serious crimes. A criminal can no longer just wear gloves and pull wool socks over his shoes – and after committing a criminal act, he feels safe. Our legacy has become an important tool in police investigation. DNA from hair, blood, sperm or skin cells can be matched against suspects in the matter. People convicted of serious crimes get their DNA profile registered in a DNA registry. But most crimes are committed by people who are not already registered. This is one of the reasons why we believe that the register should be expanded, so that even those who commit minor crimes are included in the register. Why do we mean that? It's because a person who gets his DNA registered as a result of having committed less serious crime, can later commit a more serious crime. A criminal criminal convicted of a criminal offence may later commit a murder. A DNA find during the investigation will then match this person. Very few of those convicted of murder have killed earlier, but most of those who commit the most serious crimes have committed less crimes in the past. SV will also highlight the fact that experience from other countries shows that DNA increases the clearance rate and provides more effective investigation. In order for the police to maintain their high level of confidence in the population, it is important that this type of everyday crime is better addressed. It is important to stress that a registration in the DNA registry will only take place when the conviction of punishment is final and that the biological material should not be retained for privacy reasons after the DNA image has been taken. Today, the individual police district itself is paying the bill for the DNA analysis. It is positive that the proposal we are discussing here today means that the Government is providing central funding for DNA analyses, which will contribute to reducing police district spending. The central funding will help to ensure that the use of DNA analysis is not determined by regional resources but by crime. We go in to set up our own investigation register, where you can register the DNA profile of people targeted for certain types of serious, criminal offences. The profile shall be capable of checking against the identity and track records. The research register may help to facilitate research and, over time, increase the percentage of information. Finally, I would like to point out that the benefits of increased access to the use of DNA will be that the duration and extent of the investigation will be reduced and that the likelihood of acknowledgment will increase. An increased number of clarifications will in themselves be preventive and, not least, those who are innocent will be excluded from the case. SV looks forward to the scheme coming into force, and we are very pleased that it is set at 64 million. kr for this action in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e367	The representative of Chaudhry has previously been involved in Norwegian immigration and asylum policies. In family reunion cases, the UDI has used the British laboratory for its DNA analyses — i.e. one of the nearly ten different public and private laboratories used in the United Kingdom also in criminal proceedings. The majority comment gives the impression that the analysis of DNA by private laboratories on behalf of the public involves the privatisation of the criminal chain. Could the representative Chaudhry clarify the fundamental difference between a DNA analysis in criminal matters on the one hand and a DNA analysis in family reunification on the other, and possibly inform me about, for example, The United Kingdom, with its Labour government, has privatized the criminal chain?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e374	Firstly, we are in the Norwegian Parliament and not in the British. The British have to sort out their legislation in their own way. Secondly, we see a clear difference between analysing evidence in criminal matters and analysing evidence in other kinds of cases, for example. family reunification matters. It is impossible for the current government to privatize evidence. What's strange to me is that a party like the Right, which is genuinely concerned with privacy and by the fact that people cannot be judged on the wrong basis, does not see any concern that evidence that can determine human fate can be subjected to very many people's analysis and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e383	I feel the need to ask a follow-up question about the question I asked, where I asked for a clarification of what is the fundamental difference. I have no doubt that it is an intervention in human life not to allow them to meet their family. And then I have to ask, doesn't that have a big effect on them? What is the reason why the Socialist Left Party has two completely different approaches to sending DNA abroad in connection with family reunification and in criminal matters? What is the concrete, principled difference? What does it consist of? I didn't quite get that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e390	I am trying to say that SV and Right should agree that there is a huge difference between being charged with a matter and applying for family reunification. It is very strange to me that the representative André Oktay Dahl manages to put these two things in the same booth, and sees no fundamental difference between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e395	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e398	The rapporteur said that this was a historic day, and compared the matter today with other important reforms. There is no doubt that the law decision today will provide a whole new opportunity to solve many more issues than is the case today. It's enough to point out the experience from other countries. At the same time, it is also important for the Christian People's Party to say that even if the criminal law is changed so much with this DNA register, it is not such that you suspend the ordinary investigation work for that reason. That's what's important for us to say. It still has to be, it has to have a good structure in the context. I think the case rapporteur presented in a very good way what is the background to the proposals that finally came into the proposition, which may be a bit tighter than what was the starting point when you first started working on this, among other things. with regard to the registration in the register. I think the committee here has come to the right points of view in that way. There are several people who have been concerned with the situation of the Forensic Institute, that there is no capacity, etc. I think it is quite right, as others have said, that we should look at the framework conditions of the Forensic Institute. The academic'second opinion' environment was an expression used by the author of the case in relation to the need to get another place where analyses are also to be carried out – and we fully agree with that. But first of all, I think it's important now to build up under the Forensic Institute. I would like to comment on one point on the matter we have had of voting in Stortinget, which is related to the representative proposal from the Right. When we voted in favour of accreditation opportunities for more people, it lies among other things. in that possibility. But I would like to say from the Christian People's Party that we are now primarily concerned with building the Institute of Forensic Medicine and, to some extent, perhaps also another, for example. in Tromsø, so that you can take away in a professionally good way the samples that in a much larger number now come. If, in a given situation, there is also a need for a private institute, I can't actually see that there is any decisive argument that it is not public. In any case, it will be subject to full official controls in relation to the criteria to be applied by such an institution and that is what must be decisive. And there's nothing new about many other situations we have, where there is public authority exercise, but where you also have contributions from private into such a process. Then to the Left's suggestion. I would like to say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I hope that the majority agrees that it will be forwarded to the Government. I think it's an important point: should you be in this register forever, or should it be a restriction? Not least for those who are registered for perhaps relatively less serious offences. As regards proposal No: 2, where the left recommends a limit when you want to register, we don't choose to vote for it. I have an absolute sense of what the left takes up. At the same time, I believe that the Committee has given instructions that this should be assessed. This assessment may also lead to a crime with a criminal framework beyond the proposed Left which is not to be registered. That freedom I choose to give to the Government. But the direction that the Left sets out in its proposal, I have absolutely great sympathy for it. With that I have explained the voting instructions that the Christian People's Party will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e419	The use of biological material is important for the police, and here it is about using biological material on the basis of DNA. Of course, it is the left in principle, so the debate is not about it. It's about the legal rules around it. On what basis should the register exist? What is the basis on which to get into it — and possibly get out of it? Here it is good to state that the Committee unanimously says that the register should be used to identify and not to keep biological material. That's a pretty important clarification. At the open hearing which preceded the work of the Committee, different views were expressed on this subject. The left is very pleased that that delimitation has been made on this point, as the Committee has done. Several members of the Committee, including from the Government Parties, have commented on why this is so. I don't have anything to add to it, that's an excellent way to do it. With regard to the register itself, there is no doubt that the register, including the Left's proposal, will be an extended register for the police. Then it becomes absolutely crucial how the police are going to handle it. First, it becomes essential that this central financing be arranged in such a way that you get currency for the heads you have. It is quite essential that the analytical capacity required is correct. It was on the basis that the Left, like the Christian People's Party, voted in favour of the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party. We voted in favour of this because point 2 was in favour of accreditation of professional environments. We think that's very important. This also applies to the Institute of Forensics, because the proposal said the same thing as the rapporteur – that it is important to be able to have more environments, i.e. environments where you get a ‘second opinion’. We have not now said that we will go in to use private operators. That was one of the reasons why we voted in favour of the proposal in paragraph 3 – that one has to look at the procurement rules around it, because the border between the exercise of authority and the practical tasks must be so precise that there is no doubt about what is one and the other. We don't want to take it directly in the storeroom in a matter like this. It is on these premises that we voted in favour of Document No. The 8th proposal. That means, of course, that we are for what the majority of the Committee has said – that it is important that we have good environments, that the Institute of Forensics is required to be accredited, that they will be required as to what they are going to do when they are going to do a lot of work for the judiciary – and that it is important to have a different environment, even for the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur. If it would be useful in this work to be able to use a private actor with given framed clear reservations, we are open to look at it. But we don't want to make it a big point today, because it's crucial how the police can use the resources, and what they can get back for them. With regard to the police's use of this, it is quite obvious – to say the public – that the DNA evidence does not come jumping down the wall and looking for every policeman and politician. Nor is it the case that all the working time provisions of the Working Environment Act are suddenly repealed, or that Arne Johannessen suddenly comes marching and says that now I am not going to make a single requirement for rest periods – or that there will suddenly be a lot of resources available. That's not how it is – even if it's approaching Christmas. The police must give priority. I guess the police will have to give priority to serious crime – criminals they can't reach in another way. It is on the basis of such a balance that, on behalf of the Left, I have proposed that the entry value of the register should be six months sentenced unconditionally. The other conditions surrounding this are in agreement with the government parties. Government parties have chosen an entry point where there is a general penalty framework, and regulations will ensure that obvious cases are not included here, for example. what may happen in traffic. I guess you're not going to take young first-time criminals this way either. It's an attempt to sort. It's a statement that based on the sorting that I've proposed here, you'll get more than enough to do. With six months, the police get back to criminals — especially violent, winning, and morals offenders. It's my claim that to reach others, for example. Young people will be given an overview of good prevention work. Others left, e.g. people who are struggling with drug problems would be known in a police district that still has police officers who know the local environment. But none of this is rocking by the fact that this is talking about an important instrument to be used. With regard to the proposal to get out of the register, I hope the Council of State can comment on it, because the committee has said something about it. In principle, it is a matter of being able to rehabilitate, at least for less serious criminal acts, that such a register has to be out of the register. On the other side, it is quite obvious that there are criminal acts that society will protect itself from. We already have a record of that today. In the balance here, I hope you can say that you will come back to this in connection with the Police Register Act, because it gives you an opportunity to sort. With this I address the two proposals that I am promoting on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e445	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has drawn up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e448	Odelstinget is currently dealing with one of the main criminal policy proposals of the Government, the issue of extending access to DNA profiles. We see it as a historically important decision, which will meet some of the challenges we face to make Norway safer. There are three reasons why we are proposing this, which is a central point in Soria Moria. There are three reasons why we believe that it is central: Firstly, we believe that it will strengthen the police force in Norway; the police will come out strengthened. There will be more resources on some issues, but at the same time, you will be able to get into a better position and get simplified research on many other issues. The overall picture will mean a reduction in crime, more security and a good development. Secondly, we also believe that this will clearly increase the percentage of clarification. The third, which is an important framework for the proposal we have presented, is that, in the opinion of the Government, this proposal respects the legal security considerations of such an important reform, including privacy considerations. I find reason to point that out. It is rare to raise particular debate on precisely those aspects, especially where one agrees – but precisely ensuring privacy has been important to us in the work on this presented. The money is already in place in the budgetary decisions that the Storting has already taken. Last week the Stortinget adopted the 2008 budget for our sector, where it was set at 64 million. kr to the financing of this DNA bet. This fulfills an important promise from the Red-Green Government. Today, some police districts pay the bill for DNA analysis. We add up to central funding for this. I heard the representative Horne talking about the cost of the districts – it's inside that there's going to be central funding, so it's not going to be in the districts' economy if you take two or four tests. In other words, it costs less for the districts, and it can also release resources. The increased DNA budget also goes to several posts in the police districts. We want special positions to deal with precisely this reform, both in terms of competence and in terms of practical management. Better training and new equipment are included in the RMI and, of course, increased capacity on the RMI. It is planned to implement this 1 October 2008, as far as I recall. We are of the opinion that the budgetary decisions taken by the Grand Duchy on this matter must be sufficient to take account of precisely these considerations. Both the police and the Forensic Institute will be given increased staff to manage the expected increase in sampling and analysis. Investments in new and efficient equipment for the RMI will be made in 2008 in order to improve the ability to handle the expected increase in the amount of police samples. Furthermore, we are working to improve the organisation of the RMI business and the expansion of the areas. One of the most important parts of the DNA project is the introduction of data support for DNA processing. This should include, inter alia: ensure effective interaction between police districts, Kripos and the RMI. Automation and communication between actors — the laboratory, police districts and Kripos — will be important quality assurance measures as the samples for analysis increase. The whole reason why we're doing this is that the percentage of information in Norway is too low in relation to criminal acts. It is central to the Soria Moria declaration that, alongside prevention, we need to clarify more. There is also a great deal of prevention in resolving crime. The percentage of clearance in Norway has varied considerably since 1960, when 40 pst. of the crimes were resolved. The lowest clearance rate was in the 1980s — with a clearance rate of 20 pst. of 1988. Since the early 1990s, the percentage of data in Norway has increased. Police reform, increased involvement of the police, changing governments and cross-political consensus must be honoured in order to actually increase the percentage of clarification. The clearance rate is highest in killing cases and lowest in winning cases – but it has to go on up. In many areas, we can't live with as low a clearance rate as we have today, and it's my hope that the DNA bet on several criminal fields will help us to get more clarification. That's my wish, and that's my hope. Experience from other countries shows that increased use of DNA increases the clearance rate and provides a more effective investigation. Several have indicated that in the United Kingdom, there was an increase in the number of burglaries from 14 to 45. in matters where the DNA registry could be used. Overall, the experience from England is that the clearance rate is increasing dramatically if DNA traces are found at the scene and these are checked against the database. The first time DNA traces from a crime scene are inserted into the database, the chance of matching a suspect's DNA profile is 45 pst. Serious crimes have often been solved when the perpetrator is subsequently apprehended for a relatively less serious crime, such as drug addiction. shoplifting, etc., and for that reason are searched for the database. Once again, we see that there is a small group of people who stand for large parts of crime. When matters are resolved more quickly, more cases can be investigated. It also gives more effective response when we get faster judgment and so on also more police force. We've always had extensive experience using DNA in police investigation, and we've seen how this technology can help solve criminal cases. Therefore, in order to facilitate effective clarification, it is important that the police have sufficient access to make use of this technology. DNA registration can also help innocent people to be checked out of business more quickly. There's a reason to underline that as well. The main element of the bill is that the DNA profile of convicted offenders should be able to be recorded in the DNA register in more cases than under current rules. Today, only DNA registration is available in cases where acts covered by certain chapters of the penal code have been committed, more specifically what is known in the law as general dangerous crimes, sexual offences, physical detachment and extortion and ran. The proposal opens up the registration of the DNA profile in all cases where the act under the law could lead to the punishment of liberty, regardless of the chapter of the criminal law on which the act is affected. In practice, this also means that conditions such as burglaries, damage works and the creation of threats may provide a basis for registration. The changes are governed by Section 160a of the Criminal Procedures Act. As can be seen from the proposal, the action shall not provide a basis for registration if it has been reacted with a simplified presentation. We aim, as we have also been concerned with, to regulate this more closely, for example. in the prosecution instructions until the police records legislation is ready. I would like to give my full support to the content and ideas of proposal No. 1, and warmly welcome it as a transmission proposal – a useful input in relation to our work on police records legislation. Otherwise, I have to say that the proposition does not contain proposals for significant changes to the rules on the procurement of the biological material needed to derive a DNA profile. It shall continue to be a condition for the person concerned to be suspected of a criminal offence for which the law provides for a penalty for freedom. The same rules apply. I would also like to mention the question of the time at which the registration of DNA is going to take place. The proposal in the proposal is that registration should not take place until a final judgment has been given, or the case is finally settled. However, the Committee has raised the question of whether an investigation register should be established, where, under specified conditions, profiles from persons having the intended status can also be recorded. The Committee has asked the Government to come back to Stortinget with a separate case to establish an investigation register. I agree with the Committee in these considerations and, of course, I shall comply with the majority's request in this way. Finally, with regard to the need for «second opinion», I have noticed that a collective justice department is in favour of the initiative of the University of Tromsø and the University Hospital in North Norway, on the establishment of a law genetic laboratory in Tromsø. In addition to increased analytical capacity, the Committee’s view is that such an establishment could provide sound academic competition related to research, education and operations and provide the basis for an alternative, Norwegian-speaking expertise function. I share the Committee's opinion regardless of who should have come up with this first – the idea is good. We're going to work on this, and we're going to get back to it in an appropriate way both at budget rounds and at other rounds in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e495	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e499	The report from the Hareide Committee says that until an organisation or better capacity is put in place at the RMI, the analysis samples may need to be sent to our neighbouring countries as a short-term solution. Then my questions are to the Council of State: Is it not correct that the RMI is sending test samples to England or Sweden due to capacity problems today? What is the principal difference between sending the samples abroad, to our neighboring country, and sending them to Stavanger?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e504	We are concerned that the RMI should be able to take these samples and carry out the analytical work to be done. I have noticed in the debate today that several times it has been claimed that there are now major capacity problems at the RMI. I refer to what the RMI said during the hearing in Stortinget's Justice Department, which I have got a copy of, where they just point out that the personnel tests are now being carried out fairly quickly. In the case of the track tests, it was reported from the RMI that approx. 80 pst. of these cases answered in writing within eight weeks. I believe that you actually now have the capacity to go into this expansion, especially when we want to strengthen the RMI in this way. I believe that there will be no need to obtain help from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e513	Now everyone is positive to the environment in Tromsø. How will the Government engage in the establishment of that environment? Will initiatives be taken in advance of the revised – and the budget – to ensure that it is put in place during 2008? A question also related to the RMI. You have to listen to self-crust because it comes from the heart. It is not surprising that the RMI in the hearing says they have full capacity, unlike what they had when they handed over the report to the police director. If the capacity of the RMI is not sufficient, can the Council guarantee that analyses will be sent abroad on the first possible occasion, so that there will be no cows, as we have seen earlier at the RMI?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e520	We cannot guarantee that we will send samples abroad if there are capacity problems. You might have to find other solutions to that. But what we can guarantee, is that we're going to connect a change in the law with a significant investment in the budget, as we are doing now. That is why we have granted as much money as we have. It is clear that there is now a pressure on all actors to put this reform in place from the last six months of 2008, precisely to get this going. We are now working under pressure to get this reform going. At that point it is central that the capacity should be covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e527	If it were that we could politically decide that the RMI would forever have the capacity to solve all the challenges, this would not be a problem issue. But I understood the Council's response instead so that it has actually sent samples abroad for analysis. Then the Council of State failed to answer what was the representative of Horne's question: what is the fundamental difference between sending such samples for analysis, for example. to Sweden or to England, and to send them to Stavanger?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e532	I believe that the main question in this debate concerns the quality, for which the RMI is actually a citizen. Now that we also have accreditation for the RMI, I believe it is crucial for future reform. We do not want a strong feature of private operators when it comes to obtaining a response to tests. We're completely open and honest about it. We believe that this competence lies primarily with the RMI. There's also something more there than just collecting samples and analysing samples. It also involves meeting in court and explaining very difficult contexts, so that this requires his husband. I am not sure whether the Progress Party and the Right have been thoroughly involved in the competence of the private actors, in particular with regard to taking track tests. Personal samples can be easier, they might be able to handle things abroad. But in the case of track tests, I have to say that I think we should be very careful about expanding the possibilities for others other than the RMI to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e539	Finally, it can be said that GENA meets in court today and has acted as an expert in the Nokas case, so they have to be able to do something, to say it carefully. But my question concerns RMI's own information: Will the Government implement a quality assurance of RMI's capacity, cost-effectiveness, etc.? In fact, it is quite essential that the Storting should be presented with an overall review of the situation at the RMI. We can't rely on the fact that the RMI itself in a hearing with Stortinget's Justice Department says that everything is in the best order. Would the Government like to submit such an assessment? And when will it come to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e546	Yes, we want to guarantee the quality of the information we get into such a process – obviously. We have more contact with actors in connection with this major reform than the notes left in the Justice Department of Storting. It was just supposed to be missing! It is a very important challenge for us, especially when we are now introducing central funding of tests and spending a lot of money on this, that we are saying the same thing here as we have said about how we run the police, how we operate criminal care – that we always ensure quality, so that it doesn't become overpriced, and so that we get good, reasonable, effective solutions. But here, as elsewhere in the criminal justice field, it is important to take into account both legal and privacy requirements that make it possible not to always choose crowns and ears – i.e. price – but to ensure that the whole process around the analyses is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e551	It seems like the Council of State has a little bit of trouble answering here, so I'm trying again. The Council of State clearly states that he cannot give any guarantee that he will not send samples abroad in the future. Then I ask again: what is the fundamental difference between sending the samples abroad and sending them to a laboratory in Stavanger?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e558	What I'm answering is that I can't guarantee that samples won't be sent anywhere else in the future. The government is assuming that there is an RMI to analyse these samples. We have chosen it, because we believe it provides the best guarantee in terms of the quality of the analytical result against privacy and legal certainty. I see that the Right and Advance Party immediately chooses to involve other actors and almost also goes well for them. We don't choose to do that. We believe that it is important, when we have such a major reform, that we build real competence on the RMI. We believe that they are best able to handle these tests, and that there will also be a practice that is best in terms of price and result, which, in turn, can provide the police with the best help to solve more crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e567	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e573	This is a brand day for Norwegian police, and not least today is a brand day for all those affected by the most common form of crime in Norway, namely the crime of profits. I hope and believe that the reform that we are adopting today will lead to a sharp increase in the resolution of matters, and that in turn, it will lead to people experiencing just what they have been subjected to, theft from a cabin or a car, being taken seriously, followed up and clarified in a completely different way from today. It is earlier in this debate that the United Kingdom is referred to, for example. the clearance of vehicle intrusion increased from 8 pst. to 63 pst. after the application of DNA technology. I must say a little in relation to the debate that has taken place today, but also in relation to the debate on the police. I think the opposition very unilaterally focuses on resources and very little on methods. Why has this reform not been implemented in the past? We've had the technology, other countries have implemented this reform many, many years ago, but it's the red-green government and the red-green majority that do this. The DNA reform is also a promise of competence, which many have been involved here. There is clearly a need to increase the capacity to perform DNA analyses. In addition, I believe it will be very important to strengthen the legal genetic research activity. That's why we depend on a rapid build-up. It is clear that once we have built up the skills and capabilities we need, it will no longer be necessary to send tests abroad. That is why the Committee has highlighted the need to increase competence and capacity. There will also be a greater need for reference laboratories to carry out «second opinion» analyses. I am very pleased that the committee has pointed to the environment at the University of Tromsø and at the University Hospital of North Norway, UNN, both in relation to setting up a training course and a legal genetic laboratory. I think it's quite uninteresting who suggested this first. What I think is important is that we now have the capacity to build up, so that people feel that the crime that is affecting them is being solved. We do that with this reform. I must say that the Court's views on the matter today have really puzzled me. I agree with the representative of Ballo that the Right seems quite lukewarm to build an environment in Tromsø. It seems like they're doing a lot more to build up races in private.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e586	So when we vote on this matter later, we are going to have a voting theme over three paragraphs to change the criminal law, and they are going to be adopted unanimously. Everything proposed by the Government will be adopted unanimously. There are three members of this Chamber now, and I don't think many of them will understand that there is unanimity in this Chamber attached to the Law Decision. But it is. Unfortunately, this has a tendency to remain in relation to the opposition when it comes to discussions on important legal issues. Because you have so little to attack the Government for, you have to get all the way on the flanks, all the way to peripheral issues and blow them up to dimensions that are not to be recognized, in order to try to create a sense of great disunity. Fortunately, the Left, through its proposals here, has clearly drawn up some fundamental aspects of this matter that are actually important. The data supervision of Georg Apenes has underlined the importance of the register that you enter once, there must be some possibilities for getting out. It's kind of like in «Hotel California» by Eagles, where you say something like that, «you may check in any way you want, but you can never leave». This should not be the case with this type of register, and in particular with young offenders. There must be opportunities to rehabilitate and get out of the register. I have to say that on behalf of SV I am very pleased with the signals given by the Council of State, that the content of the proposal is taken seriously, but because of the wording it is appropriate to turn it into a request proposal, and that it will be taken care of. I'm assuming that the Left will take account of that. I see Right as a party engaged in education, engaged in strengthening university environments, and giving them a content. And what are we talking about when it comes to DNA analysis in public? It's not just that you register in a register, it's also that it's the source of research. This is the result of later writing articles from academic environments, comparing fingerprints and DNA to analyse the consequences. We've seen such foreign articles. And then one after the other runs on the idea that you should basically insist that things should be sent abroad and to private laboratories, in order to weaken these environments. That's the reason for my line to André Oktay Dahl. I don't think the Tromsø environment can feel particularly secure with the rounds we've seen here today, if that's the way the Right is going to strengthen the Tromsø environment in that the university environment there is going to be able to do that kind of analysis. On the other hand, I am reasonably sure that we will be able to do so under the direction of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e595	In relation to the latter speaker, I might be able to inform the three audiences in the gallery that the Stortinget and Odelstinget have basically agreed to deal with two issues about this today. That is why, I suppose, the most heated debate on what we disagree on is that. The party of progress has commended the Government for a final adoption of this proposal, which the party of progress has basically been the champion of in the past. We have had a heated debate today, especially about who will carry out the analyses. I am surprised that the majority will always refer to the results achieved in the United Kingdom. We can't afford to talk about why they've come as far as they have. In the UK environments, there is agreement that several actors have provided healthy competition, leading to significantly faster analysis and better quality of analyses than when state laboratories were solely responsible for legal genetics. Then I would like to make a little clarification to Thomas Breen in relation to both the line change and what Thomas Breen was concerned about, that the Progress Party had participated in a majority comment where we stress that «the strictest enforcement by the authority shall be a public task. Treatment and analysis of DNA traces in criminal matters is the handling of evidence’. That's what we're saying in the Inner East. S. No Eighty-nine. If Thomas Breen had read the setting for the matter that we are dealing with now, Innst. O. No 23, he'd seen it on page 7: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right believe that, on a principle basis, the criminal proceedings themselves should be kept under public control, of which the actual collection of DNA as a potential evidence in criminal proceedings. On the other hand, the analysis of the trace material itself should be carried out by other accredited laboratories, based on professional criteria which naturally have to follow the corresponding rules for the protection of privacy of publicly owned laboratories.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e612	The debate shows that there is little disagreement on a general basis and that the disagreement is in relation to the question of analysis. That's all right, and we knew about that. I believe that all the members of the committee were fully aware of what was in it. What I tried to problem in the lines of both Horne and Dahl was that they agreed that the criminal justice chain should be under public control, but that such an important part as evidence management can nevertheless be outsourced – for that is exactly what it is. Analysis of DNA and the creation of DNA profile are evidence management – and that's fine. I accept that they mean, but that's the difference. Oktay Dahl asked me why Tromsø had suddenly become so important. It is not that the majority of the members of the Committee can decide that we should now go for Tromsø. We then ask the government to evaluate it, and it's based on three things. One is that there is a good opportunity to get a course of education at the University of Tromsø, because they have a number of other educational courses, which also include DNA technology. I think there are eight different directions, among other things. the central medical engineering. The second element is that the Tromsø environment can be operational in a relatively short time. And the third is that it will also provide the second opinion that we want us to have in Norway as well. So Oktay Dahl asked if you could look at GENA differently if GENA is publicly owned. I have no objection to GENA being publicly owned. The problem is so much that the University of Stavanger doesn't have so much on education courses in DNA from before. That's why we've been pointing at Tromsø. It could have been Bergen, because the University of Bergen also has some educational pathways in DNA, but they haven't gotten as far in the process as Tromsø, who has, after all, adopted it. So I want to comment briefly that André Oktay Dahl asked the SV's representative about whether there was any fundamental difference in what UDI is doing, and what we are discussing here. Yes, I believe there is a fundamental difference between administrative decisions and criminal law – just so it is said. Then you can always problem whether the difference is so big that it should be problematised in the same way, but that's not the issue today. Finally, I would just like to say that I support the intentions of proposal No. One, from the left. If it is turned into a transmission proposal, I would recommend that the Workers' Party should at least do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e627	It's probably time to land this debate here. But I'm helping to extend it a little bit, because after the director's posts and the representative Ballo's comments on the Right View of Knowledge, there's clearly reason to ask some of the questions a little bit clearer. How can it be that one assesses competence in one place as better, when, unlike the other, it is not accredited, has not developed training offers, and has employees with less formal education in legal genetics, and when the other environment with better competence is actually used in court as an expert because they are wanted there because of their competence and in order to contribute to increased legal certainty? So the other thing that you'd rather not talk about and not use, as a guide, and you do research. And just to correct the representative Breen a little bit, there are also plans at the University of Stavanger to set up a study in forensics. What is common is lack of funding both in Tromsø and in Stavanger. I have a little feeling that we're almost discussing the O.L. in Tromsø here. Everyone's probably for us to get the O.L. in Tromsø eventually. Everyone here is for us to have an environment in Tromsø. But the point is that we need to develop more environments, and then the question is, who is what we think can start analysing DNA the fastest? Is it GENA, who is already accredited and has competent staff who can take samples and analyze them within a couple of days, or is it Tromsø? I'm cheering at Tromsø, not in football, but in this very question. But it must be allowed to have two or three thoughts in your head at the same time, and so it is the representative Aspaker and I who have raised the question of Tromsø. That's also why we're happy to have it on the majority side of the comments. I asked a question to the Council of State instead of which I did not receive an answer, and it is in relation to the RMI: When will the Stortinget get presented with a case where as such the RMI is reviewed in relation to the capacity, cost-effectiveness and handling of DNA. It has to come sometime in 2008 if we're going to have the hope of realizing the DNA analyses that we all want. But in the end – so that we land, and I land – there is reason to repeat the main score from instead, namely that this is an incredibly important matter. But I hope that we will at least get the latest revised answers to some of the questions that both the Progress Party and the Right have here in relation to realism in that the analytical capacity in charge of the RMI is enough to meet the need for the expansion itself, regardless of whether we want GENA or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e638	Reforms in the police have been commented on. Any police reform is important. The representative Bjørnflaten asks why it hasn't happened before, so let's take it at a little bit of a heartbreaking pace. What's happened? Police Directorate – 1999, new police methods – 1999, police reform – 2000, 2001, 2002, etc., terrorist legislation – 2002, criminal law § 242a, which is discussed later today – 2002, measures against organised crime – 2003, action plans against trafficking and violence in close relations – during the same period, extended police methods – 2005, Catch and Kripos – the same period. I believe that parts of the police still need to balance parts of this effort. But the world is still calling for new reforms, which is why it came today. This will be my entrance to comment on the two proposals I have made. With regard to my one proposal, that there must be an exit when there is an entrance – that is, according to the Scriptures – I am pleased with the open position of the Council of State on this. I understand that he will ensure that this topic is properly illuminated in connection with the Police Register Act. I feel that when it comes back as a real matter to Stortinget, I have achieved what I wanted to achieve with this proposal. On that basis, I make proposal No. 1 on to a request proposal, which I understand of course goes on to Stortinget. As regards proposal No: 2, I would like to say the following: we have previously worked on different aspects of criminal policy to use harpoon and not snorpenot. It's my honest belief that instead of giving authority to go in and register themselves with the lowest penalty, and then by regulation to make exceptions for those you don't want to have, as representatives in this room have done, it's better to set the limit so that you get about the ones you want to reach. I'm quite worried about creating expectations for tasks that the police can't solve without delay. Until today, the police have also been able to use fingerprints. But the police don't have the resources to run around and take fingerprints in all the contexts where they could have done it. If they did, they could solve a lot. At the same time, we know, for example: that the police have brought down a surprising number of people – a large number of burglaries in the car, e.g. in housing laws in the Oslo area, by working closely and well with local groups in housing laws and others. The percentage of information has been obtained well in important areas in the Grorud Valley. So there's not just one method of combating different types of crime, that's the sum of the methods. The left also looks at the DNA register as an important method, but we've chosen a different input value. It must be seen as a contribution to the debate on criminal policy. We have chosen to focus on this and at this stage not on who will carry out which laboratory tests. On the other hand, we very much agree that there should always be a second opinion, and we are very pleased that it has been emphasised as strongly as it has been done by the various representatives of the Committee, not least from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e651	The President notes that the conversion of proposals for transmission proposals will only take place when the proposal comes up to voting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e654	In the line change a little earlier instead, the council was very concerned about quality. I certainly believe that the Council of State tried to give the impression that the opposition, specifically the Right Party and the Advance Party, was not so concerned about quality, because they were concerned that someone other than the RMI could be involved in DNA analysis. I find it strange that the Council of State is trying to give the impression that everything that happens on the RMI is qualitatively superior to everything else. There is reason to remember that the RMI is still not accredited. Nor is it the case that the Council of State tried to produce it, that the Progress Party and the Right are attracting many other private actors and almost doing well for them. What was involved in the exchange of lines was samples that the RMI had sent to accredited laboratories abroad for analysis. Then there is a double quality: there are accredited laboratories that treat the samples, and it is the RMI that has sent the samples to them – and there, as I have seen from the Council of State, almost all brain capacity is to be found, both in the world and at least in Norway. I could imagine challenging the Council of State a little more concretely at this particular point, because I don't think he answered very well. The situation is that the analytical capacity of the RMI, despite the increases and reinforcements agreed by all, is not sufficient. What should the RMI do in the meantime? You can't play too much time for the further investigation. The RMI has sent analyses abroad when the waiting time is too long. Is that what the Council of State is about to prohibit? Is he going to put obstacles in the way so that the RMI can use others if it is needed, and the cases accumulate? I would like the Council of State to be clear on this, because I feel that today he is engaged in some kind of double communication from the pulpit. On the one hand, he says that this should be driven by the public – sentence. But on the other hand, he has not distanced himself from the practice that he has apparently sketched has been the case in the past, that foreign laboratories have been used. It's strange, because we have a laboratory in Norway that's accredited and that can be used if there's a condensation or a long wait. I find it strange that the Council of State in a way has a principal aversion to everything because it is private, and suggests that the quality of what is done by the private is not good enough in relation to the requirements you set for the RMI. It's just not related at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e665	This matter may well be a week's anniversary in Stortinget. It actually came here around Christmastime last year. I am very pleased that this with legal certainty and second opinion has become so central in this debate. It was by no means a matter of course when the government put forward a legislative proposal to focus on one environment – and only one environment. It is also interesting to note that a size like Torleif Rognum, who is actually a professor at the RMI, is one of those who have been aware that there was a weakness in the law that you only provided for one environment, and that you did not have the opportunity to get a second opinion in Norway. Then there was the turnaround in the government fraction. On 29 March, the Commission presented its proposal for a representative, which included: pointed to Tromsø, but also to GENA, and where we strongly appealed for a second opinion to be put in place in Norway. So, months have gone by – from March until we now deal with the situation, which was issued in Stortinget just one week ago. And then, at last, the government parties are coming on the track and are suddenly very much in favor of Tromsø. The case of Tromsø has been known from the Hareide Committee, which was in front of the bill. So the government had ample opportunity to promote Tromsø as an alternative, if you wanted to. I am very happy that I have received support. I am absolutely convinced that Tromsø will be able to deliver within the time limit they have set, provided that the government parties and the government will provide the necessary funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e676	I perceive that what the representative André Oktay Dahl says, and what Elisabeth Aspaker says, is something different. It is suggested that a university environment should be almost unprepared to use this type of method, while a private laboratory is ready. Some of the same thing we have heard from the Progress Party. I think it is a wonderful way to reason if we recognize that the capacity in Norway in this area has been too poor, so we have had to send some analyses abroad. Should it be done that analyses have been sent abroad, to a principle to be continued, or should one be concerned with ensuring quality, expanding capacity and getting more analyses in highly professional environments? That's what this is all about. You will never be able to ensure that legal practitioners, geneticists and pathologists are present unless you link them to university environments or large hospital environments. That's what this is all about. It will be difficult for a private laboratory to offer. That they should be suspected is not the case. But we have recently, among others. from the university community in Oslo, articles from abroad were presented comparing the results of fingerprint analysis with DNA analysis, and in retrospect it can be shown that fingerprints of very close proximity have been as safe as initially thought. In the hearing of the Judicial Committee, we have been presented that the codification of DNA is likely to expand in a few years. It's per. date in all mainly foreign environments that make the experience that DNA can go further. But we want Norwegian environments to be able to do that in a few years' time. We want to strengthen these professional environments, run several of the analyses in Norway, and thus be involved in that development. Of course, it's about quality assurance towards the judiciary, but it's also about strengthening academic environments. That's why I think that especially the Progress Party is completely blinded by the way to argue. So you argue in principle that something has to happen where it happened before, because you per. the date the environments are not in place in Norway. If that was the case, Christian Barnard was the only person in the world who could perform heart transplants, because he performed the first in Cape Town in 1967. For the most part, let's be concerned that it's the Norwegian professional community that needs to be strengthened. More than Elisabeth Aspaker has been busy with it for a very long time, although not everyone has run to the North Light the day after being occupied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e687	So we are now faced with one of the major legislative decisions in Odelstingen during this period, one of the most important steps in resolving more crime — one of the most important methods for police — which can contribute to a significant increase in the percentage of intelligence. In this respect, the majority feel that the perception, responsibility and competence of Norway regarding this new, important extension of methodology should be public. That's why we've chosen to point to the RMI. We believe it is – and will be – a very good professional environment, just through future accreditation, through the efforts we have, and through the phase-in of this reform. Through more detailed legislation, we need to define where to go and how many samples to take. At the same time, in addition to legal certainty and privacy, we should also ensure that this is actually also handled in Norwegian hands in an environment of competence that we build up, and which I think – I think the representative Ballo put it very well – becomes a very central competence environment for this. We have also pointed out, as the majority of the committee does, that it is useful to have a second opinion on the assessments made, and here it is naturally pointed to Tromsø. There are several people who have done it. So I think this is a good solution and a good strategy. Then the Progress Party gets its principles as to whether to send it abroad or do it privately. What I'm responding to in this is that you've almost accredited some actors, without, at my discretion, going closer to how good you are, among other things. to take trace samples. I think that's weird. In fact, I think that accreditation is something that we need to exempt politicians from doing. The fact that the government has chosen to invest in the Institute of Forensics is precisely because we believe that there is also the best possible guarantee for the future that we get good results analysis, while at the same time having the opportunity to phase into one for us very big reform, in a way that makes us get it out of the resources that we actually want.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e695	The representative André Oktay Dahl has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e698	I do not think that the representative of Ballo is going to try to interpret any different approach to the issue of Tromsø with the representative of Aspaker and the undersigned. We assume that the government is following up. We have a slightly different dialect, but not a different content and approach to the issue of Tromsø, so we want to ask ourselves to interpret that kind of disagreement. If you are afraid that it is private, buy it up then, or order the RMI to cooperate more closely during a transitional period. It should be possible for a government, a red-green majority, to want active political governance. Build on the competence that's in GENA, and you get to do two things at once. That should actually make sense. It's not even about principles, it's just about common sense. Otherwise, I just have to say that from the Right side this is not a fight against the RMI, but a fight for faster analysis from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e707	I'm going to be short, but I don't think it's necessary for the representative Ballo to put on the learning hat and turn the problem on his head and pretend that the Progress Party will introduce a principle that DNA analyses should be sent abroad. This shows that, at least, the representative Ballo has not listened to any of that representative Horne and I have said from this pulpit today. I think that's worrying. What we're saying is that we don't want to do the opposite. We don't want to make it a principle that you shouldn't be able to use other analytical laboratories. That's what's the challenge of the Government now saying that it wants all of this done by the public. The Progress Party will have a practical approach to this issue, so that we have the opportunity to solve any capacity problems that we have seen in history, and that, no matter what the Government hopes and believes, we will see in the future. That's what's the starting point. I experience that both the Council of State and the representative of Ballo are now trying to put chains in the wheels for practical and good solutions. I agree with the Council of State. Those laboratories are to be accredited by others, and those laboratories have been accredited by others. They have not accredited the RMI.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e721	I'll try to be short. It would have been tempting to comment on hating, but I will leave it. Now there has been a long debate on a relatively unimportant part of this – if one sees the whole of the bill. Nevertheless, I would like to add some comments to the debate that has been. The Right Party and the Advance Party assume that the money we have now allocated for the next year is not enough to meet the capacity increase that the bill has seen. That's a little bit of a weird approach. We have all recognised that it is a challenge to get enough analytical capacity in place. That's where we agreed. Then there's a debate about private or non-private laboratories, about Tromsø or Stavanger or just RMI. I find reason to remember that in the large picture there is a great deal of agreement in this room about the matter. I think it's important to remind ourselves sometimes that sometimes it might be okay to let it go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e730	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 151]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e746	I want to refer to the debate we had in Stortinget on St.prp. No 86 for 2006-2007, where we agreed to ratify the Convention on Corruption. There is an important issue in the work against corruption, so that this can be avoided. Here in Odelstingen, we shall now adopt the legislative changes needed to bring this Convention into force. It is gratifying to say that Norway has already adopted some legislative changes that contribute to compliance with the Convention, but there are nevertheless important changes that are being made here today in the fight against corruption. One of the legislative proposals is to legislate a compensation rule for damage caused by corruption. Several of the hearing bodies have addressed this important issue and pointed out some unfairness in this regard. This is also something that has been taken into account in the drafting of the law, and the Committee is pleased that these consultation opinions have been taken into account. It is important that precautions are taken to prevent corruption. The most important place to take care of this is the individual workplace. This is largely the responsibility of individual employers. With good control procedures and anti-corruption measures, this would appear to be preventative, and one has come a long way to prevent such crime. What is important, however, is the adoption of a modified version of the employer’s responsibilities in relation to what was in the draft consultation, so that the employer can become free of responsibility where control measures have been provided. In this case, several hearing bodies have called for clear protection for employees who are alerting, so-called alerts. Although such protection is in place through the adoption of the Working Environment Act, we cannot repeat enough the importance of such protection. There's been a lot of stuff lately. We are totally dependent on alerts in the fight against crime. Finally, I would like to say that it is positive that we are now getting these legislative changes in the fight against corruption, and I am pleased that a total increase is so concerned with this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e763	I'm not going to take the word against the law, it's a unanimous committee position. We were a little too happy when we wrote the comments. We got a little bit in a Christmas mood. In his article in the big debate, Dørum took up something very fundamental, namely whether the alert protection is good enough. In the setting we say that we are very happy that a protection is in place. Yes, we are pleased that there has been legal regulation, but the Right is also in doubt whether this is good enough, and has repeatedly highlighted the need for even more stringent and clearer warning rules in other committees in this House if possible. So, in the context of the Council's response, I would like to ask that we also evaluate the impact of this as quickly as possible, and come back to the Stortinget with any changes in the law that make the protection of alerts not only a paper regulation, but an effective legislative formulation. As far as the law itself is concerned, we are pleased that it is in place, as we know that only one in ten Nordics believe that the authorities are doing good to deal with corruption. That means that nine out of ten don't have much confidence in us. It should be a cross of thought, and therefore this law is an important piece in the work that we all have to do to rebuild the trust that people have lost through, for example. events of the last days.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e774	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 152]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e790	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e797	The changes we are now going to deal with in the Criminal Procedures Act deal with some parts of the legislation on restricted access to documents. The purpose of the proposal is to improve the ability of the prosecution to protect sensitive information. The reason for amending the legislation is that the Supreme Court has interpreted the legislation in such a way that it is now considerably less able to protect sensitive information. As a backtrace to the case, I would like to point out that one of the main basic requirements of a good process system is to ensure legal certainty. The right of access to the file should therefore be as broad as possible. In spite of this, it is necessary that police and prosecution authorities have some means of ensuring the security of sources and informers. The ability of the criminal justice system to combat serious crime depends entirely on the fact that informants and sources can feel secure in being able to provide information to the police without endangering themselves or their loved ones. In an increasingly globalised world, crime is also becoming more cross-border. This has led to the Norwegian police becoming more dependent on better and closer cooperation with other countries’ police and prosecution authorities. In the near future, we will also have a debate on an even closer and more formalized police cooperation through the so-called Prüm Agreement. In this cooperation, it would be very unfortunate if the authorities of other countries refused to provide important information to Norway for fear that Norwegian legislation would not provide sufficient protection against transparency. In order to meet the requirements of the legislative proposal to exempt transparency, three criteria must be met. Firstly, there must be information which will not be used in any criminal proceedings, it must be strictly necessary to refuse transparency, and a refusal may not lead to material concerns for the defence of the defendant in criminal proceedings. In recent years, a number of possibilities have been provided for the police to use new methods of detection and prosecution. It will be essential for the police to be able to exempt information at the investigation stage both in order to protect the methods used, the sources and informants involved, and with whom and how cooperation with the authorities of other countries is conducted. This is why it is now proposed to keep the issue of transparency criteria, the entry criteria, separate from any criminal proceedings. This also means that the police cannot use the information that has formed the basis for implementing extraordinarily coercive measures, such as: communication control, in a subsequent criminal case. Because in recent years the police and the prosecution authorities have been given the opportunity to use specifically invasive coercive measures in the investigation, and because the legislation is designed to deny transparency, confidence in the criminal justice chain may be impaired. It is therefore also in this case that the Committee calls for a wide-ranging review of the new methods so that, as legislators, we can be sure that the possibility of using coercive measures is used as foreseen by the legislator. I am therefore very pleased with the signals from the Council of State that in the near future he will set up a method selection to review this. I am also pleased that the proposed legislation has been able to balance the need to exempt from our obligations under international law. With this, I would recommend the Committee's recommendation on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e818	For the Progress Party, this matter is very important, and we have addressed the challenges under both this and other Justice Ministers in relation to the security of police officials and working methods. Another important aspect of this matter is the security of police witnesses and informants. Security in relation to police methods and the security of individual police officers and informants is essential to combat organised crime. Policemen working undercover against criminal groups need the protection provided by the law. The certainty that some input information can be withheld is important for each official to be able to do a good job without risking life and health for himself and not least for his family. The adoption of this amendment of the law today is an important step on the way to increasing their security. To put this legislation in place is also, as we see it, absolutely necessary in international police cooperation. International partners must have confidence in how their data are processed in the fight against serious cross-border crime. The Norwegian police must therefore have at least the same good rules for the protection of such information as is available in the countries with which we cooperate. The Party considers that legal certainty and fundamental principles of legal certainty, such as compliance with what is stated against one, are still respected after the adoption of this Act. This is because the court is judging on the basis of the evidence in the courts. Where the police and prosecution authorities choose not to carry any evidence, there is little need for the defence or defendant to receive information of this kind. However, the Progress Party is now willing to go a little further than the rest of the Committee. We agree that a certain degree of seriousness should be required to use the exceptions in Section 242a of the Criminal Procedures Act, and we therefore support the requirement that the exemption under the first paragraph can only be used in cases where prison sentences are at risk for 5 years or more. However, the Party considers that consideration should be given to the possibility of increasing the maximum penalty. The background for this is that we believe the severity itself is higher when repeating a crime. However, it is more important that more minor situations may be part of serious and comprehensive organised crime. Finally, given that this matter is important, and raises some fundamental questions, we are also pleased that today we have such an overall committee, and that a sample is being set down to review the rules on document access and other questions concerning the new methods that the police have been given the opportunity to use. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposals from the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e844	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e847	The crime scene has changed dramatically in recent years, including in this country. The threat of terrorism and organised, cross-border crime have posed new challenges to both legislators, police, prosecution authorities and courts. In the right, it is a frightening development that offenders commit violence or threaten to commit violence to those who have information in criminal matters to a greater extent than in the past. The criminal justice system's ability to combat serious crime is weakened if people do not dare to stand up to what they know about criminal offences. The more malicious and reckless the criminal, the more difficult it becomes to be judged. Therefore, changes to the Criminal Procedures Act were made under the Bondevik II government in 2003 to protect police informants, methodology and cooperation with foreign authorities. This, in addition to accessing new investigation methods in the most serious cases by the police in 2005, has been an important step in the fight against the most serious crime. It is difficult to create a law that covers all the needs of police and prosecution authorities in order to detect and prosecute serious crime. There may be situations in which the legislator has not considered, or the interpretation by the Court of Justice of a provision makes it applicable otherwise than provided. The Odelstinget legislative proposal deals with today is the result of the fact that case-law has shown that the law is not sufficient in terms of restrictions on the right of access to certain documents that could put sources and informants at risk or expose the police’s strategy or methodology. In the worst-case scenario, the prosecution authority chooses not to proceed with the investigation, or does not take action. Both parts are equally unacceptable. It is therefore good that the necessary legislative changes are put in place, so that our ability to combat serious organised crime is not further weakened. It is important to maintain a criminal policy aimed at combating crime effectively, while at the same time safeguarding fundamental legal and data protection considerations. This is well-balanced in the bill, and we are pleased with that. At the same time, it is important that we recognise that the right of access to documents as a starting point must be as broad as possible and constitute an important basic requirement for a good process system. The balances that have been taken here feel the Right is safe on are the right ones. However, the consultation round raised several difficult issues, including those of a more fundamental nature. We are therefore pleased that the Ministry of Justice is now warning that a sample will be set up to look at different aspects of this and assess the need for further changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e864	The issue is whether certain documents in the legal instrument should be kept away from persons during the main proceedings, under certain conditions. The background to the case is inter alia: the so-called heroin source issue, where people had been taken by the police with 36 kg of heroin. The persons had to be released for the sake of informants in the matter, because the lives of the informants would otherwise be at risk. This led to a rather hectic round in 2002 and a legislative change in 2003, as explained here. That amendment of the law has subsequently been clearly tested, including: in connection with the Nokas case. As a result, I understand that the Advocate General has made proposals. The proposals that have been put forward today will support the Left. We do not think it right to let this be less strict than the majority in the Committee believes, so that we do not vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. The case complex requires, as stated in the case-law, that consideration be given to general differences in criminal procedures in difficult balances. But it also points to a different relationship. It is linked to an initiative, which I – if the memory does not miss for an intensively working waxing representative – took up in an interview with the Minister of Justice, to legislate on the illegitimate methods of infiltration and provocation. I did it on the grounds that the law in other countries has happened after political scandals or situations in which people have lost their lives, among other things. policemen and others who have been involved in the prosecution. I then said that it would be an advantage if we did not get into such a situation in Norway. In this context, the Council of State said that he would start work on evaluating the police methods we had, among other things. address the difficulties encountered in using such coercive measures. It is the rapporteur who has raised this issue again today. I think it is very important to do so, because it is precisely in the assessment of how the methods have been used, or have not been used, that the fines of both the provisions of the criminal law and the provisions of the criminal procedure law can be better achieved. I take it for granted that this now gets a lot of pressure on itself, so that we can get this review. It's been many years since you first said it would happen, and I think it's very necessary that it happen. At the same time, I would like to stress that one side of this matter is about an important development in Norwegian police, which I am sure the Council of State is concerned about. That's how the police handle witnesses and informants to be protected. It goes without saying that such witnesses and informants cannot be led in the police by those who are investigating the matter. They have to be handled by others in the police. For a time — it is not necessary to fix time — certain situations arose in the police where policemen looked at such people as their personal informants. Information from informants or witnesses thus handled is not personal information from one policeman. It's the police as a system to have that information. So linking the informant management to the police in a proper and good way, separated from those involved in the investigation, is very important. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that this system is now in place in such a good way that we can take it easy, but I mention only to Stortinget that, in the context of the treatment of § 242(a) in 2002 and 2003, it was underlined how important it was to put this in place. I know the police have worked on this, and I expect it to be important. I would also like to stress that, in the context of the topic today, the issue of witness protection measures is generally raised, which is part of the fight against organised crime. It also raises questions about measures to ensure that witness protection can take place across different countries, including the United Kingdom. in the Nordic countries and places in Europe where it will not be striking that people are moving — to say so. But there are also questions about how the police will deal with what was being treated in the now completed Australian TV series ‘Police Agents’. There are policemen who run what is called ‘undercover’, which in many ways is an infiltration method and in part a provocation method. I think we'll be able to deal with situations like this, and I know that we have environments that are schooling on it, but I want to re-examine in this debate the need to review the police methods and also in such a context look at the need for regulatory regulation of the unregulated police methods of infiltration and provocation. I support the committee position with the comments that lie in it by the majority, which I think are balanced and imaginative. I find it very useful that we have received such a case before Stortinget as the one now promoted by the Government. The left vote for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e883	I am very pleased that the entire Judicial Committee, with some exceptions, has fully endorsed the proposal to limit the right to access and provide evidence. I'm especially pleased because it's not an easy matter to go into, and because there are two incredibly important considerations that stand against each other. Then it's good to have a very broad political consensus on where to go. Because we can, eager to do the investigation and the police and the police officer so strongly, have to violate what is too many a sun-clear right: to see what kind of documents rest in the matter, and also to be allowed to interpret – what is it that speaks for me, and what is it that speaks against me? Therefore, this is not an easy matter, but I think it is necessary. I believe that we have found a good balance, and that the borderline we have made is favourable. In recent years, the police and the prosecution authorities have been given access to investigation methods that mean that we are, methodologically, well equipped to fight serious crime. This is a necessary, but not sufficient, prerequisite for the detection and prosecution of organised and other serious crime. Another crucial condition is that the police and the prosecution authority are able to protect sensitive information that should not be used in the determination of the guilt and penalty issue. Recent interpretation by the Supreme Court of the rules on access to documents has led to a weakening of the possibility of protecting sensitive information. The aim of the proposal is to improve the ability of the police and prosecution authorities to protect precisely this information. Under the law in force, the right of access to documents varies at the different stages of criminal proceedings. The starting point at all stages is that «documents of the case» may be required. Where a document is to be regarded as a file, the suspect and the defender will be entitled to have access to it, unless the information can be exempted under specific provisions. The exemption from transparency varies at different stages of the case. At the investigation stage, the Criminal Procedures Act opens up wide derogations from the right of access, taking into account precisely the investigation, third party, national security and the relationship with a foreign country. After the prosecution has been removed, the possibility of refusing access is narrower. Transparency may be refused for the sake of national security, the relationship with a foreign country or where anonymous witnessing has been requested. Once the case has been closed, transparency may be refused for the sake of national security, the relationship with a foreign country or when there is reason to believe that printing will be used improperly. In addition to these exceptions, Section 242a of the Criminal Procedure Act provides for a general rule of exception at all stages of the case. It has been explained earlier about its creation. The provision provides that the court of First Instance may refuse transparency when three conditions are met: it must be information which the prosecution will not take as evidence in the case; it must be «extremely necessary» to refuse transparency; and a refusal must not entail «significant concerns in the interests of the defence of the defendant». If the conditions are met, transparency may be refused in order to protect police sources and informants, police methodology and cooperation with foreign authorities. Transparency for police methodology use and for cooperation with foreign authorities can only be decided when the action has a penalty framework for prison for five years or more. I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal to amend the Criminal Procedures Act, § 242a and § 292a, on the right to refuse access to and intercept proof for the sake of the lives and health of informants, etc., so that it is clear that the provisions can be used to exempt information that has formed the basis for the use of exceptional coercive agents – so-called entry data. Introductory information may consist of information transmitted by the police from other countries — many of whom have been involved today — or obtained through the use of police methods. Without access to the protection of such information, the available coercive measures will not be sufficiently effective in the fight against the serious crime we are talking about here. I am also pleased that the Committee supports the proposal that the documents in a transparency case under these paragraphs should not be included in the documents in the criminal proceedings – the ‘documents of the case’ – and that the suspect/seeker thus should not be able to have access to them. Finally – time runs out – I would like to say that I am now ready to reduce this method selection as quickly as possible so that we get the necessary work started. It will be especially useful after the Odelsting now makes such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e902	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 153]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e918	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity to change lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e923	This odelstingsproposition contains proposals for changes in the stock laws, public stock laws and some other laws. The legislative proposal implements Directive 2005/56/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on cross-border mergers of limited liability companies. This Directive falls within the scope of its Article on company law in the EEA Agreement and is binding on Norway under the EEA Agreement. The Committee is grouped on all points, with two exceptions. It's about triangle fusion and change in the tax regime. I want to comment on the plural setting for these two points. It is a fact that Norwegian enterprises need a set of rules that also apply across borders. The Committee has not agreed to change the rules for interoperability. In addition to the fact that cooperatives in the EEA area are very different in structure and form, this law is so new in Norway that it has to go a little first. The legislative proposal will facilitate cross-border restructuring and thus facilitate access by Norwegian companies to other European markets. This will result in both financial and administrative savings in relation to the current system. Plural, Workers' Party, SV and Right, don't want to go into triangle fusion across borders. This is also in line with the Government's view. A cross-border merger has provided that the participating companies are subject to legislation in two or more different EEA States. This means that a condition for the cross-border operation of a triangle merger is that the legal order of all the EEA States in question recognises the merger as a merger. In addition, the procedure must be permitted under the legislation of all the States in which the participating companies belong. There are no rules for triangle fusion in any of the other EEA countries. It is therefore doubtful whether cross-border triangle merger will be recognised as a merger in other countries, because the EU merger operation is based on the fact that the transferring company is provided with evidence ‘in the form of securities or shares representing the capital’, i.e. axials of the company. In the case of a triangular merger, the consideration of the transferring company is in the form of axles of a parent company or a sister company. This is a significant difference. When the acquiring company is foreign, they cannot comply with Norwegian rules. There is also reason to believe that although the Norwegian company is the acquiring company, the remuneration of the participants will not be allowed and therefore not be recognised. The Cork Merger Directive or the Transboundary Merger Directive provides for rules on the merger procedure for triangular mergers and a merger cannot be carried out unless the procedure has been harmonised. So the challenge in the minority proposal is simply that we have to create Norwegian rules that are harmonised, but we don't know what to harmonise with. In addition, it is unlikely that the triangle fusion will be recognised in other EEA countries, and then these rules will actually have no reality. This will only give a false impression of the ability to carry out an international merger as a triangle fusion. This Directive does not regulate other aspects of the merger than the members of company law. The exception here is the rules on employee involvement in the merged company. The majority understands that it is not a theme for the proposition to evaluate changes in other legal rules applicable to the merger. In the case of taxes, the majority, the Labour Party, Right and SV, show that the Ministry of Finance is working on proposals for the adaptation of tax rules. Finally, I would like to address the presentation to be distributed in the hall – it is a change: ‘Decision point VI shall be replaced by the following:The law shall enter into force immediately.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e954	The representative Ingrid Heggø has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e957	It's a versatile case list we have on the map of Odelstinget today! As regards this case, the Progress Party is pleased that the new merger rules will be dealt with in Odelstingen before the deadline for implementation, which is therefore 15 December. There's only two more days. During the committee's examination of the legislative proposal, we have raised two issues, one of which has a bearing on whether the new rules can actually be used in Norway at all. The first relationship concerns triangle fusion, which the government did not suggest it should be opened up to. The Progress Party will point out that a large proportion of the companies listed on Oslo Børs are holding companies, and for these and other holding companies it will be important to also open it for triangle mergers. If this is not done, cross-border mergers involving Norwegian holding companies will be unnecessarily heavy and very costly. We can't see why a slight change in the share law can't facilitate triangle mergers, in case this might happen later, for example. if any other EEA country opens up this form of merger, which the business community itself considers to be a favourable arrangement. Triangulation is also a practical tool in purchasing foreign companies, and I am unable to share the reluctance and fear to open up the triangle fusion that the majority have here today. The second relationship of the Progress Party concerns the fiscal aspects of cross-border mergers. Several hearing bodies have called for such adapted tax rules. The directive we are implementing today was adopted in the EU in the autumn of 2005 and has been known for a long time. Therefore, we would have liked to see proposals for adapted tax rules made at the same time as the share law rules. The thing is, these two sets of rules go hand in hand. The companies use the merger mechanism because it is both commercially and tax-friendly. If tax rules are not in place, the law becomes virtually useless in practice, and then it has little intention of adopting it. The Minister of Finance said in his reply to questions from me that tax rules on cross-border mergers will come in 2008, and we hope that she will propose some rules that allow Norwegian companies to use the merger rules as they intend to work, namely to ‘contribute to the integration of European markets and make European business more flexible and competitive’, as the Directive states. In addition, the EEA Agreement requires that we do not discriminate between mergers taking place in Norway on the one hand and cross-border mergers. Indeed, current rules imply such discrimination. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal that appears in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e972	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e975	I take the floor only to say that the Left joins the majority of the committee, and that argument has been put forward in a neat and proper manner by the rapporteur. So we're in the big and wide alliance between the government parties and the right, so here it's going to be a collection of the civility and the red-green. Then we find that the Progress Party is not part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e980	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 154]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e996	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to five minutes to each party and up to five minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1005	Unfortunately, when a human being is subjected to violence, society cannot remove the pain and suffering that the victim suffers. The community cannot replace the loss of a caregiver either. However, society can provide for the victims and the survivors so that they do not have financial problems in addition to the violence and the missing. SV is very pleased that the Government has presented the proposal on extended compensation for victims of violence. Children who are witnesses to violence, the survivors and the siblings of the victims of murder, and persons who are injured due to serious threats, shall be entitled to compensation for the victims of violence. This will provide the victims with the necessary assistance and protection, while ensuring their right to compensation. Children who are witnesses of violence will also receive compensation. I mean, and I am glad that the entire committee agrees, that there is little or no difference between physical violence and threats of physical violence. For example, for a child, a threat of violence is at least as real as the actual use of violence. Threats of violence can leave behind serious damage to the child’s mental health and mental development. We are therefore very pleased that the Storting will today decide to extend the basis for compensation for victims of violence from including criminal offences to threats of criminal offences. SV is very pleased that the changes make it possible to liberalise the notification requirement. It is not that the first person who has been subjected to violence or threats of violence is thinking about visiting the nearest police station to report the case. The government suggests that in order to get compensation under the Victim Compensation Act, the report to the police no longer needs to be made right away. This would mean that more people could be entitled to compensation. I am pleased that the Committee welcomes this realization. SV understands that in some cases a victim of violence will hesitate to seek punishment, since in many cases the perpetrator will be closely related to the victim. There is therefore a strong conflict of loyalty if the victim has to seek punishment for compensation. The government is proposing to waive this requirement. We also wish to welcome this proposal. I am very pleased that this introduces a separate parental rule for children and young people. Many children and young people will work hard to report violence, or may be prevented from doing so because of their young age. The same applies to applications for compensation for victims of violence. It is therefore very pleasant that the government suggests that it is sufficient that the claim for compensation be made before the injured person reaches the age of 21, and it is not least pleasant that the Stortinget will join this proposal. Today, the upper limit for the replacement of victims of violence is 20 G. In those cases where there are several victims of the same incident, it is today that the victims must divide the claim. This provision may seem unreasonable in some cases, e.g.: when there are more siblings left behind. It is gratifying that the Right has been a cooperating partner when we ask the Ministry to come back with a closer review of the scheme in the context of the revised national budget for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1022	The red-green government with the Justice Minister at the head has really been chosen in close relation to the map. That's what she praises for. There is no doubt that we look very seriously at the choice in close relationships, and it is important that this theme is not taboo or referred to as housewives – this is violence in the world. When the safe world is converted into the realm of violence, when a child is witnessed by a mother or one of his or her siblings being beaten or threatened, this can damage the safety and trust of his or her children. It is therefore an important step we take when we expand so that the threat of power is also addressed. Serious threats, abuse in close relationships and trafficking in human beings are also covered by the change in this proposition. Under the modified law, it is clear that there should not be a condition that one is subject to selected or forced in a narrow sense. For example, dictation and other sexual abuses against children and adults are included. The changes in the law are designed in such a way that the scheme is particularly relevant where children are repeatedly exposed to long-term abuse, but the conditions for compensation may also be fulfilled following a single act of power, such as: where the child sees the father seriously hurt the mother. We also introduce a special parental rule for children and young people, so that we can ease the notification requirement ‘without a stay’, and it is sufficient that the application be submitted before the age of 21. By allowing the Office for the Compensation of Victims to cover the costs of obtaining declarations from, for example: Doctor, dentist and psychologist, will be replaced by several victims of violence. The same is true if a person has omitted the requirement for the message to receive a request for punishment. Another group that gets its rights strengthened by the proposals made in this proposition is left behind by people who die as a result of acts of violence. The movement of people who may be entitled to replace is extended and they are replaced more than in the past. There should be as much consistency as possible between the damages ordered by the Court and those actually paid. This is also clarified in the Committee's comments. Where there is new information under court order, a reduction in the payment or when one reaches the ceiling may occur. The extension that the siblings of the deceased may also be compensated does not imply a claim for compensation for the sibling, but if there are particular reasons, the victims’ compensation authorities will have a discretionary opportunity to recognise compensation. When it comes to the issue of retroactive power, it is quite possible that it will be right in these cases. The same applies if you want to raise the roof from today's 20 G. Compensation related to loss of income and reduced function with high costs of treatment, care and care is another example of a type of case where one can reach the 20 G ceiling. The case-speaker mentions another matter that is equally important. A third element that should be considered is the limitation of compensation, where, as I understand it, there are different rules of universal criminal law and compensation for victims of violence. We look forward to the early analysis that the Minister of Justice has promised Stortinget in connection with the revision. It is also important that the duration of the proceedings in cases of replacement is as short as possible. We therefore support the proposed changes to improvement. But I want to signal that I'm initially skeptical that a person should decide whether or not to substitute for the victims of violence, but here one has several security valves, and the fact that the victim is given a quick treatment, speaks absolutely for such a delegation picture that is outlined here. Firstly, the delegation does not deal with decisions in matters of principle or doubt, and only applies to matters that do not give rise to significant questions of doubt. Secondly, all the members of the denominator can read through and withdraw a decision, and then the matter will come up in full mention. As I said, it's a very important step we're taking here today to strengthen the victims' position, and it'll be very welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1056	It is very gratifying that we are getting an extension of the system of compensation for victims of violence. For the Progress Party, it is important that those exposed to crime do not become further victims. A victim is something you become involuntary, while committing violence or crime is something you choose to do. The judicial policy of the Progress Party is based on the consideration of the victim, more than on the consideration of individual offenders and offenders. That is why we are very pleased with this law that we are going to adopt today. It includes an extension in relation to who is to be compensated, and several important steps are taken that are important for the individual victim and the individual victim. Unfortunately, many perpetrators have no money or values. The result, therefore, is all too often that victims do not receive the compensation they are entitled to by judgment. The task of society is then to ensure that the victims do not get hurt again because of this. Then they become victims in a double sense. In such cases, the State through the compensation of victims shall, in effect, advance the amount of compensation condemned where this is provided for in the judgment and shall require the amount of recourse to the sentenced person. This means that the compensation for the victims of violence should therefore not be eligible for the amount of compensation in question. For the Progress Party, it is important to stress that the guiding principle must be non-discrimination between victims and victims. This is, as we see it, completely incompatible with the fact that one sets a limit of 20 G in relation to each damage case. The 20 G limit means that one will be discriminated unfairly and arbitrarily, depending on whether one or more victims are per. damage case. Here I must say that the Government is greatly disappointed. The progress party reacts to the committee director's performance in the press where she says that this is something she wants to do with. We know that there are many cases out there that are discriminated against, and that is especially offensive to children. Today, when there are several siblings, one has to share the compensation, but is an only child, gets an entire amount. When the committee leader, and the representative Aspaker, went out in the press and said that this is unreasonable, and that someone had to consider doing something about it, so to push it forward to spring, this is a mockery of the victims. It's today we're dealing with the bill, and there's today the majority in this room have the chance to do something about this maximum limit, but they're not using it. As the Progress Party reads this case, the government parties, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, have all said what they want in the proposition, and that is to maintain this limit. Once again, it's actually today we're dealing with the law, and not in revision. The Progress Party wishes to further investigate whether the State should be able to advance its actions in cases other than those covered by this Act in order to seek recourse from the convicted person. An example may be where a person has been subjected to serious fraud and loses all his money, with the result that a person has to leave the farm and land. Another example is where a firefighter has lit the house in which you and your family live. If you do not have an insurance policy, you will often be on a stand-by basis, and a compensation that you are aware of will have little meaning if you do not have any funds. The State has resources and tools that the victim does not have, so the State can more easily recover its claims. The Progress Party therefore suggests that it should at least examine this further, and hopes that the Council of State can take these signals with it. During the hearing, the relationship was problematically put into effect and the impact this would have had on actions before the amendment entered into force. The Constitution § 97 is set to protect the individual citizen from abuse by the state. I would also like to make it very clear that it is very inconceivable that some people wonder about being subjected to violence on the basis of which legal rules might apply. On this basis, the Party considers that all amendments to this Act shall apply to applications submitted after the entry into force of the Act. Furthermore, the Party considers that a person should not be able to reduce the amount of compensation under the provisions of the Law on Compensation for Damage in the event of intentional criminal offences. This is related to the fact that we want one to actually advance the amount stipulated in the judgment, by not setting compensation below that stated in the judgment. When case-law shows that one has reduced the amount of compensation not only because of a lack of ability to pay but also the willingness to pay, the Progress Party considers that this has gone too far. The Party of Progress will therefore reduce this possibility of reducing the amount of compensation in the case of a deliberate criminal offence. I would like to say once again that I am happy that we now get this law, which is so important to the victims and to the victims, in place. I would nevertheless like to point out that the matter bears a bit of urgency, and I wish that the Storting had got better time to deal with such an important matter. I would like to thank the previous speaker, Ingrid Heggø, for addressing the issue that it might be a leader who will make decisions on her own. I support the signals she gave in this regard. I finally want to include the minority proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1088	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1091	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter, which has been dealt with very quickly in the Committee. Improved compensation schemes for victims of violence are an important signal that society is taking the damage and loss of victims more seriously. It is nevertheless a fact that the Right was not entirely satisfied with the Government's bill. However, through the committee treatment, we have found an acceptable solution, which means that Stortinget will have a case back to spring for changes to Section 11 of the Act. This is right satisfied with, because then we can also get a fairer compensation in cases of multiple victims and survivors. People who become victims of violence are in a vulnerable situation, but the degree of harm and problems that each individual goes with after such a violent episode varies. Therefore, it is important to have a robust compensation system that is capable of dealing with such inequalities and that can accommodate victims who are in a position to seek compensation. However, let me stress that compensation for victims of violence can hardly be more than a patch on the wound, and of course can never replace the loss you suffer from, for example. losing your mother or father or other close family members. However, economic compensation can ease everyday life and cause fewer concerns in a complex and difficult life situation. That in itself can be an important relief for the victim. In general, the right considers it important to strengthen the position of victims. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the weakest among us deserve special attention. Therefore, the right is so concerned with improved child compensation schemes as one contribution to strengthening the legal position of children in Norway. The proposed amendments to the Act on the Compensation of Victims are a handshake for people who have been subjected to some very traumatic experiences, including women who are subjected to rape and attempted rape, and children who have been exposed to or witnessed violence and abuse in their childhood. It is positive that the proposed changes to the laws imply the acceptance that victims may not be able to seek compensation for victims immediately after violence and/or injury, but that the application may be made at a later stage. It is thought-provoking and improperly challenging that the fight against violence in close relationships continues to bear the mark of tabooism. The more important it is to be mobilised for new measures, and in particular for women and children. The reality is not always beautiful, even up to Christmas. This is a fact we can't stick under the chair. Unfortunately, many women and children experience very offensive abuses. Society must therefore step up efforts and action when the safe home is transformed into a nightmare-like place of residence and prison. The Minister of Justice’s book ‘Bjornen sleeping’, on family violence, and the new cross-ministerial action plan on violence in close relations are important contributions to raising awareness and to moving forward with new and improved relief measures for victims. The Minister of Justice deserves commendation for putting the fight against violence in close relations even higher on the political agenda. The report series in the VG of 72 women's raps committed by women's husbands and girlfriends is a creepy reminder that the home's four walls are not necessarily the safe frame many think it is. The cruel abuse in Tromsø, where a small four-year-old boy had been confined for long periods to a small cut of his parents, is another reminder that not all Norwegian children are cared for and have the frames around the growth that every child deserves. The public utility intervenes too late in many cases, as in the case of Tromsø. There is no doubt that public authorities are going to act within the doorstep, in the private sphere of people. In particular, the police's efforts here are crucial in order to detect violence in close relationships. ‘It’s not just going,’ says one of the headlines in the book to the Council of State. To help women who experience domestic violence, security is required for the necessary follow-up and assistance if the woman is to be able to break out. Similarly, child protection needs to be better equipped to assist children in need of their help and protection. In its alternative state budget, the right has also proposed to establish support centres for insults in all the police districts of the country. The general opinion says that there should be as much consistency as possible between the compensation provided by the court and that actually paid through the victim’s compensation scheme when the offender is unable to settle. The problem is particularly prominently linked to Section 11 of the Act, where today’s ceiling on payments means that matters involving several victims and survivors are unreasonably bad. This is the direct reason why Stortinget asks the Government to return to the revised national budget with a review and comprehensive assessment of the Act on the Compensation of Victims § 11. At the same time, I would like to refer to previously submitted proposals in the context of the budgetary procedure, and assume that in its assessment the Ministry has a particular focus on situations where there are several victims and survivors. From the right, I would like to signal that we believe that this review requires a more thorough processing that takes into account more aspects than the rapid solution The Progress Party is in charge here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1123	The left is pleased with the development that has taken place with the Law on the Compensation of Victims since, for the first time, a few years ago, it began to change, because we became aware of what victims of violence we had in the country, and what they were exposed to. What is happening now is that we take over the recognition that the system of compensation for victims of violence has given us. In a number of areas, the scheme is extended. You've looked at who comes under it, and how you can make sure that the arrangement becomes less rigid and more manageable, so that people who have been traumatized or violent get a chance to get under the system. This is the short version of what has been submitted. I also think it is good that what was an opening in the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Justice on 3 December is now caught up in the fact that the majority of the committee, the government parties and the right, will come back to the situation where there is more than one victim, and will do so in a real way. The left supports this whole approach. I am not going to elaborate on this in any other way than to stress, as other representatives have done in the past, that the system of compensation for victims of violence is one pillar to give victims of violence upliftment. Another pillar is the different action plans that have been presented over the years, and at the latest from the current government, as far as I can see, and that are going to fight violence in close relationships. Some of this has been to strengthen the competence of the police, which has been developed over several years, and in this context also to develop the competences of other key elements of society, including: in the healthcare system. I would also like to underline what the representative of Aspaker had to say, namely the attempt that has taken place in Trondheim, in close cooperation between the prosecution authority, Trondheim Municipality and the police, where there has been a support office for victims of violence who have probably fanned more than what we have otherwise had in the clinics for victims of crime, and which, in the Left's view, will probably give us a very good insight into how we can move on. So – late in the evening: it's about us in this country, bit by bit, taking what's been kept hidden, kept inside the private room, out in the public sector, providing legal protection and ensuring that the state of justice comes a few steps closer to people who have become invisible. And the fact that, first of all, you underline the possibility of avoiding limitation periods for some of the situations, and that you strengthen the situation for children, is very positive in this context. The left hand side gives its whole-hearted support to the configuration. The Progress Party may have its own proposals. We do think that they could also look calmly at what comes later, but there's different reason in the parties, and we have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1138	I want to use the occasion now in this debate, in which we adopt one of the important pillars – as the representative Dørum said – in the fight against violence, to say that the Government has today presented its action plan against violence in close relations, called the Turnpoint. There are two aspects to it. There are 50 measures. There are six government councils responsible and behind – the government as a whole is behind, but there are six state councils appointed. We hope there will be a plan that can contribute to two things – first, to raise violence that happens at home among people, and that hits children and women particularly hard many times. It's a breach of trust, and you don't have any other safe haven to search. The second is that we hope that the measures, and also what Odelstinget is going to adopt today, will help us in some of the cases where the efforts of the police and the courts do not always lead in the sense that there is sufficient evidence of criminal guilt, to a greater extent to develop civilian tracks that give acceptance and understanding to those affected, sail if you do not necessarily have sufficient evidence or you do not want criminal proceedings. The compensation for the victims is such an arrow, where people feel that you are widely believed in relation to their description of everything. I have no faith that money alone can solve a lot of problems for some of those who are subjected to serious assault, violence or threats, but I believe that a decision and a public announcement, among other things. through the system of compensation for victims of violence, it may help those who are victims to feel that they are heard and believed more in relation to the experience they experience from the situation. Therefore, it is gratifying that we gather such a broad majority to extend this system, especially towards the children. Now bringing in the violence-sacrifice system the violence that affects children in close relationships as well as witnessing is a powerful signal to adults in relation to how to deal with children in such a situation – that it is almost an assault to have to deal with such situations and repeatedly see others related being affected by violence. So I'm very happy that we're getting full support for it, and it's an important signal we're sending out with it. I think it can also help to raise the eye and focus on this type of serious criminal act. It is also positive that we are now getting rid of the old age rules that have slowed down a lot of the possibilities, especially for children, to get compensation, children who do not naturally think about demanding compensation at maybe 14 to 16 years of age, but who will have the opportunity to get it. In addition, I would also like to emphasise from this platform that when the President is to be interpreted, statements in Odelstinget are to be interpreted and used in case-law in the design of these rules, one of the reasons for changing the provisions of this round is that we consider violence occurring in close relations, as a very special serious act, and which we clearly believe justifies the granting of compensation for the victims of violence. So it's going to be one of the 50 measures that can contribute to a greater mobilization than what we've seen before, and that might be able to arouse the bear that's asleep.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1151	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1154	Just let us establish that the Advance Party fully agrees that this is a very important matter, and we are very pleased with the work done by the Government in this matter. Nevertheless, the government is not willing to do anything with the 20 G limit and the difference between several siblings and one child, when we have this case for treatment today. The council itself has said that he is fully aware of that problem, but that he needs a better basis for doing something about it. My question to the Council of State is: We have this matter for consideration today, but what other basis does the Council of State need to have in order to do something about this in the revised national budget? Why can the Council of State not do anything about this discrimination today when we deal with this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1164	I believe that there is no discrimination today. What is problematic for many is that, in their opinion, the ceiling is too low, so that where it is, among other things. There are more siblings, each sibling will receive less compensation than if you were one or for example. Two siblings. This is not an easy problem just to take over the table, as it has been produced from the Progress Party. First of all, we have to ask ourselves where the roof will go if you want to put a roof. Is it so that the amount itself is crucial for the repair of the offended? That's the one. The second question is whether it is right to divide by each sibling, for example. Quite the same parts and treatment as an only child as a child coming from a sibling's flock where there are several siblings. Many will claim that being in a sibling's flock, in fact, also helps to reduce the damage. So I think there's good reason to look at this, if we're going to go for an extension of the roof.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1171	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1176	Every day, there are too many new figures in the statistics on the victims of family violence. Every day, too many children live with fear and uncertainty because of the violence they often experience — too often — and every day, women are subjected to serious and often — too often — a type of violence that demands life. That's why this is a very important matter, because with this we not only make sure that several victims are given an uproar, but because this is also a clear signal that the Storting does not accept any kind of violence in close relations. But the reason I took the floor in this case was the statement by the representative Horne, where she claimed that I was just pushing the responsibility ahead of me and was not willing to look at a number of matters that were revealed after the bill was being consulted. I believe that after the bill was being consulted, there have been a number of issues that show that there is a bias in the outcome of the victim compensation scheme. That is why I am very pleased with both the majority in the committee and the strong emphasis of the Council of State that this is a matter for him to look at and come back to the Storting with during the spring. I'm sure we're going to get a good treatment of this problem then. But I have to say that the position of the Progress Party, the comment of the Progress Party on this matter and the proposals of the Progress Party are extremely indicative of the policy of the Progress Party on violence in close relations. I have previously referred to a chronicle that Jan Arild Ellingsen and Siv Jensen had in the VG that referred to violence in close relations. No measures were mentioned in that chronicle, except for raising the level of penalties. Otherwise, no action was taken against violence in close relations. It is in quite a contrast to the action plan presented by the Government today. Similarly, it's with this ratio. The progress party had not put one penny into its alternative budget, and one cannot raise the compensation limit for victims without one covering it. The Progress Party had not done so in its budget. That is why it is only empty words from the Progress Party, and it is incredibly indicative of the Progress Party's policy on the fight against violence in close relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1189	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1197	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1205	During the debate, the representative, Odd Einar Dørum, on behalf of the Left, has put forward two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1275	Here you can see an alternative left suggestion. The proposal reads as follows: 'Punishment Process Act No. 22 May 1981 25 is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 160a is replaced by the following: The person who has been sentenced to six months of unconditional imprisonment may be registered in the identity register. Registration may only take place when the decision is enforceable or the case is finally settled. Action for which a simplified proposal has been made does not provide a basis for registration.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1338	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1348	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1401	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1411	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1419	During the debate, the representative Solvency Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1501	Here is an alternative proposal from the Party of Presidents. The proposal reads: ‘The Criminal Procedures Act shall be amended as follows: [[restricted access to the file and testing]] Paragraph 242a, second paragraph, last sentence is deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1601	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1611	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1619	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats, No. 2, by Mr Ingrid Heggø, on behalf of the Judicial Committee
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e1670	This is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 13-25, second paragraph, No. 1 is replaced by the following: 1st@item: inlistbox Section 13-2. The restriction in Section 13-2, first paragraph, paragraph 2 shall not apply, however, where, under the law of one of the participating companies, the possibility of carrying out a merger with a supplement to the consideration in shares exceeds 20 per cent of the total remuneration.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2020	We still have to vote for VI, which is the date when the laws are put into practice. The President has been informed that the date of entry into force of the laws in the proposal for Decision VI of the vote was the wrong one in an incursion. The President will therefore vote on proposal No. 2, from the Judicial Committee, on the new provision for the implementation of the laws. The President has reason to believe that all parties will support the proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision point VI shall be replaced by the following:The law shall enter into force immediately.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2037	Thus, VI falls into the setting. It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2049	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2057	During the debate, Mr Horne has presented five proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2109	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2116	Then the result shall be 58 voices against and 16 voices against the proposals. The proposals from the Progress Party have therefore not been accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2227	Here is an alternative proposal, no. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Implementation and transitional rulesThe law enters into force from the time the King decides. Amendments to this Act shall apply in cases where, after the entry into force of the amending Act, an application for compensation for victims of violence is made.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2250	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2261	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2271	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-lower.ana.ud2115e2282	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting ends? - The meeting is over.
