ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e28	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to 3 lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and 5 lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e41	The government of Stoltenberg presented the message An information society for everyone on 15 December last year. It is a Communication on national ICT and information society policies. The ICT Communication has a broad approach to ICT and sees this area in conjunction with other key policy areas such as the operation of public activities, education, research, inclusion, universal design, business policy, legal certainty and social security. Three months after the presentation, we note that the notification has received very positive feedback from the hearing bodies, organisations and users, and several conferences have been organised focusing on different perspectives for ICT and the information society. In the Committee on Transport and Communications we have had good dialogue on the communication, and there is a great deal of agreement on the policy, with a few shades that I expect the parties themselves to present. The title — An information society for all — indicates the main focus and ambitions of the communication, namely to make Norway a leading knowledge and ICT nation, and to be able to participate in the information society, regardless of age, functionality, geography and economy. In a society with increased use of technologies in all areas of society and business, where more and more services from the public and private sectors are digital, it is essential for individual participation in society that we ensure that everyone is involved. In the Communication, the Government has pointed to in particular four assumptions that are important for achieving these ambitions. It is digital access, universal design, digital competence and public coordination. I'll briefly go through these. Digital access is a prerequisite for participation in the information society. However, access varies from one country to another. the level of income and education, the age, the place of residence and the school you attend. We can't have it that way. The government wants to do something about it. The objective of digital access shall ensure all a high-speed network offer and the possibility of access to equipment and in-use guidance. The government has increased its efforts to access broadband, and by the end of 2007 it will 98 pst. of households having such access. That's very good. However, the Committee agrees with the Government in the broadband target for all and that a more detailed monitoring of broadband access is carried out in municipalities than has been done in the past, as announced by the Government, as there are many white spots on the map without access, also in central areas that are not developed commercially. However, digital access is not only about broadband but also about access to equipment and guidance for those who do not have their own PC and cannot use one. It is important to combat such divisions in society and to facilitate equal opportunities for all to participate. In the United Kingdom, a national project includes: organised for municipal meeting places and centres where people are offered access to PC equipment and guidance. The government proposes a similar approach in Norway, through, for example: use of the libraries, where access is free of charge. The libraries have a part of this role today in many municipalities, and as I understand it, the library association wants to strengthen this role, in connection with the library message that comes. However, it requires increased efforts to equip libraries with sufficient PC equipment and space to house them and the ability to guide those who need them. This is today a municipal responsibility. Universally designed ICT solutions are a prerequisite for all to participate. This is the cross-political consensus on and major political focus on. Therefore, it is a clear objective of the Government that all technological developments in public sector ICT should be based on universally designed solutions. Privates are encouraged to do the same. We support the Government in this and will stress the importance of taking the policy objective seriously, so that all publicly owned and publicly supported websites focus on solutions that meet international universal design criteria, including: blind and partially syndicated, dyslexic and deaf. Digital competence in the whole population is essential. The government will therefore increase the focus on digital competences and facilitate better the use of vulnerable groups such as the elderly and those outside the labour market, groups that are currently dependent on the use of electronic solutions. Senior care centres and NAV offices in municipalities may be involved in providing training for these groups. At the same time, it is important to maintain parallel manual services when requested, so that these groups are not excluded from the services. The government aims to provide a world-wide primary school for the use of ICT in education and learning and educational ICT use. The knowledge gap demands digital competence that one of the skills that students must have acquired in primary school. In order to get there, it is necessary to focus systematically on developing the skills of teachers and school leaders and on investing in equipment in schools. The status of ICT in schools varies greatly from municipality to municipality and between schools in a municipality. I think it is a paradox that we parents can communicate electronically with public services by e-mail, while it is not possible to do so with school and kindergarten in many places. In order to achieve the national objectives of the Knowledge Promise and this ICT Communication, I believe that a strong national focus on this is needed, preferably through a national project, as has been done in the United Kingdom. In the future, the government will facilitate a 24-hour electronic administration where businesses will need to cooperate and coordinate their ICT solutions to a far greater extent. This shall be based on the main principles of the development of electronic self-service solutions, the establishment of cross-sectoral joint solutions and common architecture principles for the public sector and the use of open-source software and open-source standards. Good components from one project need to be reusable. The Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre will underline the need for a stronger coordination of ICT efforts in the State and for all public services to be based on seamless ICT solutions. The need for this is underlined by both the inhabitants and the business community, who meet many different web portals when they are to have contact with the public. However, the government's commitment to Altinn and Minside is an important step in the right direction that has been well received. I have now reviewed some of the assumptions pointed out by the Government to achieve the ambitions and objectives of the ICT Communication, namely the need for all to have digital access and competence, and the need for public coordination of ICT action. Other key inputs highlighted in the Communication are the importance of the ICT sector for productivity growth in the economy and the opportunities for technological development to improve the efficiency of industry and the development of new business. ICT helps to increase productivity in a variety of sectors and industries, including through: automation of labour replacement operations and increased use of technological solutions. An example is the forestry industry, where the forestry plans were developed until 2004, among others. by forest technicians going out and registering the forest with conventional analogue instruments. Today, plans are being developed using laser measurement and aerial and satellite images with such a good resolution that it is not necessary to have forest technicians out to register in the forest anymore. This is an example of improving the efficiency of operations by developing and implementing new technologies in an industry which is traditionally not linked to high-tech solutions and which has released labour resources to other important tasks in the welfare community. A company that has been central to this development is Prevista AS at Kongsberg. It is important to give ICT industries and businesses generally good conditions for growth and innovation. The government wants to promote a culture of innovation through interaction between industry, the public sector and the research environment. The ICT Communication points out that State R & D appropriations in ICT have slowed down, despite the fact that ICT was already identified as one of four priority areas in 1999. I am therefore pleased that in the Committee there is a cross-political agreement with the Government that it is necessary to increase public research efforts in the general appropriations for research and development, and in particular for basic research that can provide ground for new industries and new jobs, and for participation in various EU programmes. However, there is also a need to stimulate research and development in industry, and an instrument that has worked well has been the TAX FUNN scheme, not least in the case of ICT in small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, I would like to mention an area that is important in the information society, namely ICT security and privacy. The Government has announced the development of a new national information security strategy that will be available for the 2008 budget proposal, and a number of measures to promote privacy have been proposed in the Communication. a Data Protection Commission is now being set up to adopt a broad approach to this work. With this, I would like to commend the Government for presenting a good and important communication and to the Committee for Good Cooperation, and recommend the Stortinget to take a decision in line with the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e94	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e97	The message states to set up a Privacy Commission, which all the batches seem to support well. My question to the representative of the Workers' Party is why the Workers' Party does not undertake to set a deadline for the completion of the Commission's work and when it should be submitted to the Stortinget, in line with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left's proposal to return to the Stortinget within two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e104	In the message, the Government says that a Data Protection Commission should be set up, and that the Government is working on the composition and mandate and will then return to Stortinget on the matter. So we focus on trusting that the government will come back when it's ready for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e109	There is a great deal of consensus about very much in this message. One of the areas where position and opposition distinguishes some layer is, of course, the broadband broadband-lifts to all by 2007. A main question to the representative Irene Johansen will then be: Does the representative think that there will be full broadband coverage, i.e. that everyone in Norway, as promised by the Government, will have access to broadband by 2007? And an additional question related to it: What technology or bandwidth does the Government base its promises on? For there has been criticism of the fact that, among other things, use mobile technology to get full coverage on their maps. This is a discussion that goes on how to count, whether it is each municipality, or whether it is all the inhabitants of the municipality who get coverage. It would have been nice if the representative Johansen could elaborate on it a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e116	The government has stated in the Soria Moria statement that there should be broadband for everyone by the end of 2007. The status report now shows that approx. 98 pst. has such access. The government has also announced that it will better identify who has broadband connectivity during 2007, so that the white fields that we have heard about are also included. The objective is still in place – and 2007 is not over. Then we'll see what the government ends up with in relation to the mapping that's done. When it comes to bandwidth, it's not my strongest side, I have to admit. But I've understood it so that it's going to be connected to high-speed networks, what I'll call ADSL networks, you'll assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e123	I'll go a little further on the question and the starting point that Trond Helleland had. In the setting, government parties say that they are satisfied that 122 million have been allocated for 2007. kr to projects through Høkom. At the same time, however, the need is said to be 500 million. kr for access to broadband for the whole population. It is also written to achieve the goal 'in the near future'. That is something the representative has to say a little about. My question is, when you give 122 million. kr and know that you need approx. 500 million. Does it not mean – in clear order – that one has strayed from achieving the goal in 2007? There must be more appropriations and they cannot be made until 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e132	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has set itself an ambitious goal, much more ambitious than the previous government's goal of providing broadband for all. So that's what's done, very affordable. The 122 million. kr contributes – at least far on the way. I have, as I said before, understood it so that the coverage is now being mapped, and that from that point of view, one has to look at how to prioritise this further in the future, in order to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e139	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e143	St.meld. No 17, An information society for all is the first big message of information and communication technology to embrace so widely, with the aim of creating a debate on many of the major choices and challenges we face in the information and communication society of today and the future. First I will allow myself to boast a bit of the message. We believe that the message is good, and that it addresses many of the challenges, opportunities and solutions in terms of how to succeed in ensuring that we get an information society for everyone. Ensuring that no one falls off and remains on the platform once the train has gone — or, in this context, when perhaps ‘the information and technology are swindling off the farm, just past our nose’ — becomes one of the most important and major challenges to follow up the message in the future. Nevertheless, we would point out that in some areas of the Communication and in some of the proposals for action there, there are too few concrete and too weak. We have therefore developed comments that we believe are clearer and clearer in our work on the message and from the input we have received from a number of organisations. I would like to explain in more detail some of our proposals for amendments. One of the really big issues is who should be responsible for a general and coordinating role in the field of public ICT policy. The Progress Party believes that this responsibility should initially lie with one department and that this department should be a Ministry of Transport and Communications, as we have previously proposed. We record that at this stage we have not been given the consent to ensure that such a department is given. But we also note that several of the parties agree that the primary responsibility should lie with one department and that it should be the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. We can substantially join in. We believe that the fact that responsibility is placed with one department is essential to ensure that one sees the whole, and that one chooses solutions where the intention of an information society for all is guaranteed. Privacy may be one of the most important areas. One must have thought very carefully and have considered how to ensure the privacy of the individual. We have information and communication technologies, and they will provide us with many new and very positive opportunities that seemed unimaginable just a few years ago. Technology has helped make things simpler and better for most people. However, it has also brought with it a number of new challenges in new areas, something that was not thought of either when the technology was created or when it was put into use. In recent years, this has become quite clear, and the focus has been on preserving – and ensuring – the privacy of individuals. We see a development in which more and more information about the individual is stored in a variety of systems. In each system alone, this may not be problematic, but at the moment that this information is linked – or linked to other registers – and used for a purpose other than that at the time when the information was collected, it can be seen that both the legal certainty of the individual and the privacy of the individual are compromised. Unfortunately, we have seen more examples of public authorities/eaters picking up — or signaling a desire to collect — information from completely different registers. The tax base that collected information from a toll company in order to register when a particular car passed a toll station is an example of how to connect registers other than those from which information was intended to be collected. The Communication also provides for the setting up of a separate Data Protection Commission to assess the position of data protection in relation to technological developments. We are very pleased with this, but we want to see concrete details when the work is done, cf. proposal No 6, from the minority consisting of the Party of Advances, Right and Left, that the Government will return to the Storting within two years with a notification of how the work on ensuring privacy is going on and that the Commission will then be done with its work. I will come back to this in a later article in the debate today. The complexity of current ICT systems and the network is increasing, both in the private and public sector. In addition, when social and activity-critical systems are connected to the Internet, we face major security challenges. ICT security work is therefore very important. Much attention needs to be paid to the robustness and security of information systems and networks, so that they are not perceived to be broken into and destroyed. Also during the hearing, many people argued that this is important, and that the Government must focus heavily on this when making purchases. It is considered that the procurement and procurement rules should be amended in order to assess the security of information in relation to new purchases of systems and programmes. Recordings have also been made in connection with the establishment of electronic signatures. And the eID needs to be speeded up so that the verification of content using electronic signature and eID can be done by 2009 at the latest. This supports the Progress Party again. We believe that it is very important to work continuously to improve safety in order to meet future safety challenges. The government has promised broadband to everyone during 2007. The government also claims that it is now approx. 98 pst. coverage. Unfortunately, this is not true of the facts. This overview is based on an estimate on which certain selected municipalities have been taken into account and which has been converted into a country-wide calculation. The survey is not based on the level of household – which it should have been in order to be real. We also want to point out that calculations show that it actually needs over 500 million. kr to achieve full broadband coverage. We're probably worried that the amount will be higher when you go down to the household level. Otherwise, I would like to show that the Progress Party proposed to set up an infrastructure fund of NOK 300 billion, where 5 pst. would be used for broadband/ICT infrastructure. It would have helped us to achieve the goal of full broadband coverage for everyone in a very short time. We would also strongly point out that with the intention of the communication on an information society for all, it is important to ensure that anyone who wants it has the opportunity to get broadband. As far as research and development are concerned, the communication says a lot about this. Unfortunately, it has not been followed up in the same way in recent years. ICT research has had a much worse development than the four other areas of activity adopted in the 1999 Research Communication. We therefore want the allocation of ICT research to be increased and prioritised in order to ensure that Norway is able to keep pace with the development of new technologies in the future. We would also point out that the tax FUNN scheme was very important. It has been very positive for many enterprises in ICT, and perhaps especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. We therefore believe that this system must be strengthened and that this should already be done in the context of the revised state budget. Universal design and accessibility for all are very important, and the message suggests that everyone should be able to participate actively in the information society. In order to ensure this, it is necessary to take into account that each individual has different needs that must be taken into account when choosing to apply new technologies. It is also important to ensure that everyone is able to use and acquire digital competences. In order to ensure that everyone is able to participate, it is also necessary to facilitate the possibility for those who do not have the technology themselves to borrow it or to use it elsewhere, such as: in the library, in municipal service offices or in the NAV offices which are now established in all Norwegian municipalities. Daily government will help to improve the efficiency of the public sector, while at the same time helping to make the public sector much more accessible to users than it has been, because the network ensures that the public administration is made available to users 24 hours a day. This will also help to ensure that the public administration meets the needs of its citizens in order to use the services of the municipality when appropriate to the individual population, and not as they are today, where they can only be used in the municipality's office hours. I would also like to point out that the public sector needs to use ICT much more strongly in order to achieve efficiency gains, and businesses, agencies and entities need to demonstrate their commitment to ICT, while making the results of the increased use of ICT in the business plans of the different departments visible. I would like to take up with this the own proposals of the Advance Party and the proposals we are promoting together with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e187	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e192	I think that Bård Hoksrud and the Progress Party must wait to design the department structure and the distribution of responsibilities until they are in position. There's no tradition that the Storting mixes away in it. Elles was interesting to the right Board Hoksrud talked about privacy. The Progress Party, in conjunction with the Left, has a proposal in which a ‘only the Government proposes to legitimise the right of law-abiding citizens to anonymous traffic in road traffic’. In itself, there is a very unclear proposal, at least how it should be followed up and practiced. In this extension, the Progress Party will write in a note that ‘In the case of the Progress Party, it becomes particularly provocative that one of the main driving forces for this is the increasing level of toll financing and the related toll collection’. That's where the Progress Party reveals itself, because maybe it's not the privacy that's so busy, but the drivers and toll collection. Or is it that the Progress Party now has a completely different view of this which will eventually shape the earlier proposals they have had on police methods, surveillance cameras and other measures where the Progress Party has our homelessness when it comes to monitoring the citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e204	Our point is that we're skeptical about what we're seeing now, that we're starting with automatic traffic monitoring. You set up antennas to register drivers who are driving and using the road. Legitimate drivers using the road are now to be recorded and the data can be used afterwards for completely different purposes than they were intended. When we also see that the state, different agencies, can go in and get information from these places, we believe that there is a very unfortunate development. That's the background that we're very skeptical of what's happening now. We think it is important to ensure privacy for all those who use our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e209	We have to drill a little more into this with ‘the right of law-abiding law-abiding citizens to anonymous traffic’, because it is very interesting what it really means. Is it true that when they insert out of prison, they should have a private sign when they run through the bombing? What does the Progress Party actually say when this is the case? I don't fully understand. Isn't everyone actually law-abiding in the first place? How should a person be able to distinguish between who is law-abiding and who is not? Should the law-abiding ones be run in the queue they should not be registered, while the non-abiding ones should be in another? I don't understand how a purely practical person should do this. As the previous replica pointed out, the Progress Party has a completely different practice. There's terror legislation in all of Norway. Everything has to be filmed and photographed, so you can know where people are. The main question is how a purely practical implementation of this proposal by the Progress Party on law-abiding citizens' right to anonymous movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e216	I don't think this is a problem at all. The point is that everyone who travels legally in traffic does not get any problems at all. There could actually be other ratios that make you get it. Even if we do. are critical to the speed limit problem in some places, we do not believe that we should follow the speed limits. You have to follow them. That's exactly why we've been concerned that anyone who runs legally should be able to drive safely on our roads. We're very critical of what we're seeing right now. It's going to be far, far more control and monitoring in terms of all these antennas that are now sweeping up all around the country, and that very many want to introduce, just to control and monitor the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e223	Let me also thank the Progress Party for actually boasting of this message. That was fun. Usually it's basically sutring us from the Progress Party, but now it was at least half a minute in favor of the Government's policy. That's good. Just to repeat my question, how are you going to separate these non-lawful citizens, who are not supposed to have that right? How does this become purely practical in relation to the situation on the roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e230	I have tried to explain it to the representative Langeland. I understand that he will not understand how to solve it. I think you can solve it in a very brilliant and good way. I am also very pleased that the representative of Langeland thinks it is positive that we in the Progress Party are positive to much of what is stated in the communication. As I also said in my post, there is a lot that is very good in the message. Of course, the thing you disagree with, but basically, all the political parties in the Stortinge agree with much of what is stated in the report, which is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e237	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e240	The fact that the ICT message from the Government has not created a broad public debate is not surprising. There is agreement on many of the policy objectives set out in the Communication. But there is an absolute basis for debate on ICT policy, because it does not keep setting ambitious targets when one cannot take proper action. The right is concerned that when, as a nation, we set ambitious goals for knowledge and research in ICT, some overall political action must be taken to ensure that we actually also outsource a course that enables us to meet the challenges in a good way ranging from competence, research and industrial development to privacy. In key aspects such as the knowledge-building of teachers and students, research and development, and not least the training of the older population, notification is in many ways a blow to the air when there is no fresh means of budgeting. One of the most frequently repeated phrases in the notification is that the bet is to be financed from ordinary appropriations. Especially when it comes to getting a real lift of skills around the country's schools, it's naive at best to imagine that we're going to get it done with what the government has put on. Here you can't put both your hands on your back. In particular, the right is concerned with three main objectives of ICT policy. Firstly, we want more and better public services, for which electronic tax returns are an example, to users. Secondly, we want more ICT use to release funds for efforts and better supply in other key areas through efficiency gains. Less permeability in public allows for more warm hands to be cared for, and it is important to use ICT technology here. Thirdly, ICT use can contribute to the simplification of Norwegian enterprises, for example: when reporting to the public. Data needs to be re-usable, so that someone does not report the same information multiple times. I'm going to come back and discuss several of these issues, but first of all, I want to mention what we see in the Right as an overall factor in our success, namely the mandate of the Minister of Renewal in our own government. We don't want to go into and override the departmental structure, because we've been in government sometimes, but we're very concerned that the Minister of Renewal actually gets the opportunity to implement what's in this message. I'm sure the Minister will accept that invitation. The question is whether the rest of the government does it. So the problem today is that we have 19 government councils with ICT responsibility. Only in the country today 341 units make important ICT decisions. The state has to cooperate more closely with its 430 municipalities, although the municipalities have actually been more good at coordinating their ICT use than the state has, so I believe that the state must give the Minister of Renewal, or whatever it may be, greater opportunities to enter and steer developments in a way that allows one to make use of the technology that is being put into use. The red-green promised with pump and beautiful broadband to everyone by the end of 2007. That promise comes, as expected, to be broken. Even in Oslo, there are still white spots on the broadband map. On the right, the government is looking forward to delivering better figures to the Storting for the status of broadband coverage. The broadband coverage in many municipalities is much worse than the status that you can get by reading the so-called Nexia report, which the ministry has recently presented. We want full transparency on which areas of the country does not have broadband coverage. How else are we going to know what kind of effort is required? There is also a reasonable requirement in the light of the promises of 100 pst. broadband coverage during the year. The red-greens went in their election vows longer than the roll-call decision in connection with the broadband message. Then they have to think about being measured on it. Full broadband coverage costs money. There will be a lot of money in the revised national budget to achieve that goal. The Nexia report, recently submitted by the Government, is based on a method of 15 so-called reference municipalities. In its estimates of the cost of full broadband coverage, it is based on aggregated figures based on those reference municipalities. Like the Progress Party, we believe that the report has a far too optimistic estimate of price. In the areas where the wired connection becomes too expensive, we are concerned that a wireless alternative must keep an almost equal quality. The right shall not determine whether WiMax or other technologies should be the solution, but we do not accept that the coverage of the mobile operator ICE is considered broadband. If we are to use state appropriations on wireless broadband, the offers in today's Norwegian mobile networks are not good enough substitutes for cable. The right believes that the stability and speed of the Internet over the mobile networks UMTS and CDMA 450 will be improved quickly, but we do not believe that the Internet access offered over the mobile network, whether it is with UMTS or with ICE CDMA, currently has an actual speed to be considered a broadband network. The EU is on the verge of ICT policy. It should be a goal for Norway to be the country most advanced in ICT in Europe. Through its initiative i2010, the EU has a strategic framework for ICT and media policy. i2010 shall promote the European development of an open and digital economy and the exploitation of ICT to help achieve social inclusion and improved quality of life. As a framework, the initiative embraces many programmes and actions addressing horizontal issues, including regulatory issues, ICT research needs, standardisation, harmonisation and cooperation between countries. The right has noticed that a main pillar of i2010 is the development of an open pan-European content market. This can contribute to inclusion and to more competition and service innovation. Where the EU focuses a lot on a European content market, we see it here on the mountain most on a national market. For example, the EU has: during the i2010 ambitious flagship action ‘Digital libraries’. The initiative shall make millions of books and other objects digitally available to European users within a few years. We have noticed that the EU is not just concerned with access to cultural heritage. A common European spatial/map data infrastructure is also an important objective for the EU. This is central ICT policy and is important for the service industry in the coming years. This will contribute to more cross-country applications and to increased value creation in the field of services. What progress are we going to make on this in Norway? Digital distinctions in Norwegian education can lead to differences in knowledge and that students do not meet the competences they require. The government should have a national escalation plan between national and local education authorities in order to ensure a minimum of infrastructure in primary and secondary education. In addition, the requirements of the Knowledgelift for digital skills in initial training require digitally competent teachers and school managers. The right has noticed that the appropriations for Norwegian ICT research have been very low in recent years. TaxFUNN has been an important and good measure, and I am very pleased that the Government too now highlights the TaxFUNN as a very good arrangement. But that's not enough. Norway needs to invest in research today if we are to have competitive products and services in the future. An example is RFID technology that allows the recording of items with a tiny chip attached to them. The revolution of RFID technology in relation to new products and services requires Norway to be a part of while, of course, taking into account privacy, in the light of the previous exchange of lines. Right-wing supports the Government’s proposal to strengthen the investment to attract foreign skilled labour to Norwegian enterprises. The ICT industry suffers from a shortage of skilled labour, and it is critical for this industry that the UDI is provided with additional resources so that a previous decision on a ‘fixed track’ for expert immigration can be implemented. Access to ICT skills in the form of experts is very important for the continuation of public and private sector innovation. The right would otherwise refer to the proposal for a representative, as advocated on the right, Document No. 8:32 for 2006-2007. A wide range of measures have been proposed which will help to ensure the necessary labour immigration and thus improve access to labour also for the ICT industry. As I have pointed out, the Right is concerned that the overall responsibility for ICT policy and investment is placed in one department. There might be reason to consider whether not all investments of a certain size are to be approved by the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. In order to ensure good public services for users, information and communication must be independent of the user's choice of technology and functionality. We are therefore concerned that all public information and public solutions must be based on open standards and universally designed. Public information must also be used in business development. On the right, the Government is asking for further progress in the creation of electronic signature and ID. Verification of content shall always be guaranteed by electronic signatures by 2009. We are also concerned that the necessary information security is ensured in all public services and databases for individuals and businesses. It is therefore requested that the Government consider an amendment to the public procurement and procurement rules, where information security is always assessed. Privacy is under intense pressure in a digital society, where more and more is being monitored and stored. That is why it is good for us to have a Data Protection Commission set up to get a comprehensive review of the diverse and complex picture of these challenges. We also want annual feedback to the Storting on the status of ICT security and vulnerability work, and will stress that much, with relatively modest resources, can be done at individual workplaces and in individual homes in relation to ICT security. We are therefore concerned that the public, in cooperation with the social organisations, is doing awareness-raising work. ICT policy is important for citizens and businesses. The Storting Message has many good approaches, but it is the follow-up that becomes important and exciting. I hope that the Minister of Renewal will have greater powers and larger elbow rooms to follow up the message. If not, the Right fears that we will have a public ICT policy without force, where all small kings in all state institutions do what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e286	I got a question from the representative of Greece about broadband coverage and the mapping of this and what broadband width we use. I want to return that question: what technology does Helleland think is satisfactory, and in what way does he want to count the coverage on the map, so that it becomes adequate for the situation? I had to check the definition of broadband after I made an article. Today's definition of broadband is in St.meld. No So 49 for 2002-2003, under the previous government. It says that: «wideband is a two-way communication network capable of transmitting various types of data such as text audio and live images. The network must be able to provide new services and allow many to use the network simultaneously». Does Greece still consider this definition to be comprehensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e298	What I'm absolutely sure is that in terms of ICT policy and its development, a good one can go back a few years and look at definitions that were based on them. But we know that this is such a dynamic market, it's happening so much, that I think it's always going to have to be assessed which bandwidth is the right one from the situation we're in. I don't think it's so interesting to go into what was said about bandwidth three to four years ago, because we know that technology is developing very quickly. It's important to have that starting point. At the same time, it is important that we now define what needs are crucial for both businesses and individuals. I think it is a good starting point for them all, most of them in Norway, to have access to cable, cabled technology, because we see that mobile technology is at least currently not good enough to meet the needs of increasingly demanding services in the digital field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e305	I'd like the representative of Greece to expand a little bit more on what was in the previous line, because now he's in opposition, and then it might be important for the replicator to avoid the Soria Moria statement wanting 100 pst. coverage by 2007 is achieved, that the objective is that we should not be able to achieve it. My question is, what is it possible to do during 2007 and how much money my Greece needs to spend to get it into? The department's operating at 500 million. kr as an amount, but I assume that with the definition of right-hand broadband, there's going to be completely different amounts. Could the representative of Greece elaborate on this? I would also like to remind you that this government has made double efforts for broadband coverage in relation to the government that Greece itself was part of a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e314	First, I would like to say that there has been a formidable development in broadband coverage in Norway, which is created both through Telenor, which is a giant, and through many other private actors. That's where the really big part of the population gets its coverage. I can't answer that question, because we, an overall opposition, in our remarks, are just asking questions about the target method being used. Nor, as far as I can see, do we have access to all the data in relation to the coverage. It's pointed out that you have 98 pst. coverage. Yeah, well, we know at the same time that there are white fields in broadband, even in the municipality of Oslo. That is why we are asking for a review of the criteria underlying the Nexia report, where fifteen reference municipalities have been used – which may be a good method, but which I fear gives a little too optimistic an estimate of what is realistic to achieve. With regard to what one gets in 2007, it is the Government and Government Parties in the Soria Moria Declaration that have defined that everyone should have access. We'll put question marks on this. I think it's a nice goal, and I hope it can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e323	It may seem that the representative of Greece is criticizing us both for doing too little and for doing too much at once. He is at least very critical that we have promised more than they did, but now he believes that we do not have a high enough level of ambition. You can then look at the original level of ambition in this case. I have to go a little further, because there's something coming from the right here that everyone is going to have access to the cable. A few years ago, it was said that in the world you could never deliver the future broadband in copper, and that we had to expand fiber because it was impossible to deliver broadband in copper. Now Greece says that everyone must have cable, but we have noticed that new technology is still coming. Is it tricked by the Right to be so specific in its definitions here, or is there a rash of an opposition policy to force through heavy expansions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e332	What I also put very much emphasis on in my answer was that it's not certain that the definitions one had three to four years ago are equally valid today, because the technology is constantly evolving. If good mobile solutions can be provided, of course, it is good, but per person. Today, at least I find it a little difficult to see that it can be defined as a full broadband – the solutions mentioned with some abbreviations are UMTS and CDMA 450, etc., and the so-called ICE company, which claims that they deliver broadband. I think we need to have a common ambition to have a dynamic development of this all the time, because the goals are moving. We know that compression technology is getting better and better, so we can get more through a narrow band. Copper works well today, but this is constantly developing. That's why I think it's bold of the Government – and that's what I'm criticising – to say that everyone should have broadband. It is not realistic for a person to achieve this in 2007, and then the government has to respond to why they did not achieve the targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e337	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e340	The representative of Greece concludes by saying that we have a bold government. Yes, I am very pleased that we have a government that is dry, and that is actually now also reporting on ICT policy in Norway. It's just ten years since the last time there was a real discussion about this here on the house. I've been here for ten years, and this is the first time we've been discussing this. When one then knows that the Right has a government seat several times and has not been able to produce a message to discuss broadband and ICT policy, please tell me that it is good that we have this red-green government, which actually does, add up a debate on this on the Storting. I also think it is good that one party after another boasts of the Government, which is presenting this message, and that one is also largely pleased with the content, both here in the Storting and in the Hearing Authorities. It's a little daunting to boast of yourself and of the Government, but I think it's in place to do it in this case, because one has actually spent a lot of time listening to people before making this case happen. There is something on the basis that the message has become as good as it has. One has simply listened to what the different hearing authorities have said, before one has put it forward and discussed with the parties here on the house, with some of us at least. What is the reason why an unsent message has been sent? Is it because the right-hand side of Norway doesn't want an ICT policy? There must be a relevant question. As we have had largely right-wing governments, the conclusion must be that the right-hand side of Norway does not want us to discuss what is going on with the ICT policy in Norway. What is the objective of our ICT policy? Something like that should not happen, one should just say that this is something that the market is supposed to sort out, that is, pure market liberalism – and then we'll see how it works. That is why it is very good that we now have an opportunity to discuss what we actually want about ICT policy. For the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government, it is easy that we operate with politics because we want to change and get something else, we want to influence in different directions. Then just one of the main points in the message for us is that this applies to everyone. It's an ICT message for everyone, i.e. for all peoples and all levels of society, not as one would have got if one had only left market liberalism raw, then it would have been something for the few. The ambition is once again bold, and it should mark the right side. We want everyone on the team, not just those who have resources and opportunities because they are strong in the market. This means, when we use the concept of ‘all’, that everyone should have access, including in relation to broadband. This means that in the budget we are committed to increasing in proportion to what the previous governments have done — we actually have a double budget — and that, in my opinion, we must continue to increase the effort in the revised budget now and in the forthcoming budget. We also have an ambition that everything we do should be universally designed. Here, we've seen an example of – within this area – that we're not good enough. Then we - it's also an ambition, probably a bold one following the right-hand side - have to increase our competence, so we can use the solutions we come up with. One thing I agree with the representative of Greece, and it is that the mandate of the Minister of Renewal could be clearer in terms of being able to do so, in relation to having stronger governance and coordination responsibilities than what is in the message and that we have written in the setting. I expect that there is something that you should come back to in the next round, either in the budget or in other places, to ensure that the coordination and governance responsibility is better than what we have set up so far. Finally, a little bit about ICT and environmental policy: SV is an environmental policy, apologies, an environmental party – we are also environmental police, although government is a bit more difficult. The WWF has, among others: In the EU, one can reduce the greenhouse gas pollution by about a quarter of the EU average. Eighty million. tonnes. This can be done in a different way, including: by implementing intelligent transport systems and energy-saving technologies. With these chosen words, I'll be shown to the council when it comes to SV's vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e359	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e362	It is perfectly all right that the representative Langeland boasts of the Government. He does that every time he has the word in one case. It's also important to have ambitions. There are some important ambitions in this matter, including: in the case of an information society for all. Earlier today the Stortinget has treated St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007,... and no one was left. Part of what we also touch in St.meld. No 17, refers to digital skills in school. But here we have to be careful. My challenge to the SV representative, who also has the Minister of Education, is precisely that, because now students and parents are experiencing a massive data pressure in school. There is now a focus on more digital learning materials, more digital teaching methods, and it is assumed that everyone has the equipment at home. A lot of students don't. The answer they get from school is that then they have to get a message from home that they can't do their homework, can't do their work, can't do their projects, but that they might be able to sit in school. How will SV do this? I've got four minutes here, President. There may be a little bit of a liberal time, but... I'll give up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e371	I hope I don't boast so much about the government that one doesn't see that there is sometimes a critical light on the government's policy. Among other things, there's a lot of talk about some lawn in this area, and one might also think about Hardangerbrua, which wasn't very popular in this game either. But the point of Sortevik is important, because there are 40,000 children who do not have access to PCs at home, and nearly 150,000 do not have access to the Internet. It's, in my opinion, a huge challenge. We have said that this challenge must be addressed in the context of the budget. We need to get a completely different bet on the school page to secure that access. And then, in our opinion, we have to develop the libraries so that all those who do not have access to the home have access to the library – if not otherwise. But, of course, it should have been that everyone could afford to have a PC for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e379	Hallgeir H. Langeland has become the main defender of the Government. I am very impressed by his enthusiasm for defending the government's doer and the barn. So, unfortunately, Langeland has resorted to the habit of saying that nothing really happened until September 2005. That's why Hallgeir Langeland should read through his own big message, where there are a lot of yellow boxes. Almost all of these yellow boxes contain measures taken under the previous government, which are now being followed up. I don't think that's at the level we're going to have this debate about who did what. Unfortunately, the right has not been in government for more than four of the last ten years. It seemed like we've been sitting there all along. I would like to ask the representative of Langeland a question: is Langeland satisfied with ICT research and the public funds that are being made available, when we know that the government with Minister of Knowledge Djupedal has now taken a break in research? Especially when it comes to ICT, it's bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e388	My main point when I referred to the previous government's policy and the four years that Right put in government – even if it seemed like a bull – were the public licenses of broadband. There is no way this government will increase its effort. We've doubled him, and we're going to focus in the future on that coverage to be 100 pst, as it says in the Soria Moria statement, and of which Greece is very, very, very busy. When it comes to ICT and research, it is clear that there is no reason to be entirely satisfied. That's exactly why we have to get out of the sleep pelvic period, as this is defined as. That means we've put more effort into research than the previous government has done. I agree entirely with the intent of the Right question. If we're going to have a future for us, we're going to have to invest significantly more in research, not least within ICT, than what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e395	Among the good things in the message is the creation of a Data Protection Commission. But why won't SV tell us when we're going to see the outcome of the Privacy Commission's work, and how we're going to report it to Stortinget? What happens to privacy while we wait for the Privacy Commission to complete its work? What is the time frame for this? And how will SV protect privacy while we wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e400	SV is of course concerned that the privacy protection should be properly protected. But now there's an internal process that's been started, where one goes through these questions. I do not have an overview of the time the government has planned to put this forward. We have a running discussion in the party, which is probably also in the Progress Party, against issues related to privacy. But I can't give an exact time for this, because here we have to finish the process, so we're sure that what we're putting forward is sustainable. This means not to be hastened by guard, as the Progress Party wants us to do. When, for example: These trees and those who are law-abiding and those who are not law-abiding, I don't understand how the Progress Party can manage to make such proposals and give them a content. The privacy will be taken care of by the Government, and Sortevik will soon be able to attend and discuss it here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e405	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e408	Let me first say that the Christian People's Party supports proposal No. 6 in the configuration, from the front, right and left. It is good that the representative of Langeland admits that we have also discussed broadband and ICT in previous majorisation periods. It's not that long since the broadband message came. Information and communication technologies have changed the world, and they will continue to do so in the future. ICT provides great opportunities for the development, storage and dissemination of knowledge and for a simpler everyday life in work and leisure. ICT provides services such as: higher productivity and increased well-being, a more competitive and knowledge-oriented business, and, last but not least, a 24-hour electronic management providing better services to citizens. Such a positive development requires that we are aware of avoiding the pitfalls. For nothing to fall outside, development must include and cover all. This means that the entire population of Norway needs to be safeguarded with digital skills.Good public services and predictable framework conditions are important in order for development to be seen as a simplification.Coordination and co-ordination of community resources is very important, otherwise there will be root and overlapping duplication of work. We are also dependent on good cooperation between citizens and authorities, between people with different resources and between different public bodies. Technological development creates a number of new ethical challenges and issues that we need to be aware of. Today it is that we are lagging behind in technological development. We're not aware of the challenges we create. For example, we are unable to regulate the access to music and movies with our current legislation. Spiritual works and protected published material are exploited by pirates and downloaded without the authors being paid. Nor have we equipped ourselves with good enough methods to equip children and young people to meet the world through the Internet. Young children can be subjected to strong impressions and experiences without parents or other adults having to know about it. Technological developments also provide a number of challenges to privacy. We leave more and more electronic tracks behind, and privacy is challenged by a more extensive registration and intensive use of personal data. ICT development creates great vulnerability and risks related to information systems and networks. ICT security is an essential element of social security. The rapid pace of development in the field of ICT is a challenge in itself. Our policy system is not built for as fast assessments and legislative changes as the ICT area really requires. The Christian People's Party is concerned that information and communication technologies provide great opportunities for progress and development, but we need to be conscious of some challenges and traps that we do not have to face in the future. St report. No 17 have received a consistently positive response from the Hearing Officers and industry. There is also a broad consensus in the Biggest on the main points of the Communication. The government deserves to be commended for presenting the first comprehensive information and communication on ICT, and we agree that offensive state information technology policies are crucial for the country's growth and development and for inclusion and social cohesion. The majority of the Committee writes in its opinion that the opportunities offered by ICT to create a green knowledge-based economy and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, both through video and telephone conferences, distance work and intelligent transport systems in the transport sector, provide us with a positive development. ICT can thus become a valuable environmental policy instrument. ICT gives us exciting opportunities in the north. ICT can play an important role in research, monitoring and management of climate, nature and the environment. The Barents Sea project is very exciting here. According to the Soria Moria declaration, the entire country has to offer high-speed network connectivity by the end of 2007. According to the Government, the status now is 98 pst. Norway’s population is estimated to have a broadband offer by the end of 2007. In the Christian People's Party we put some question marks on it, and we hope to get better numbers from the Government when you go into this more thoroughly, as promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e454	The comments made by the Christian People's Party in the vote say: «The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will point out that knowledge of ICT has an enormous impact on a large proportion of the jobs in Europe. The importance of ICT in education and employment is likely to only increase in the future. These members will demonstrate that the requirements of the Knowledge Lift for digital skills in initial training require digitally qualified teachers and school leaders. These members have noted that there are currently no such provision of competence.’» Does the representative Sahl feel that there is no requirement for this in teacher training? And how could the representative Sahl be involved in the implementation of the promise of knowledge without any such requirement being made at the time of the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e466	It is extremely important that we have a staff of teachers at the level of the developments in ICT in society. Of course, the Christian People's Party does not believe that teachers are without such competence today, but we are very concerned that teachers will have the opportunity, through the development that teachers are now offered within the Competence Lift, to gain additional knowledge in ICT. Today, unfortunately, there are teachers who are struggling to have the same competence as the student in this field. And if we are to get the desired development, it is very important for the Christian People's Party to focus on the priority of continuing education within ICT within the Competence Promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e473	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e477	This ICT message is ground-breaking in several ways. I would like to underline first how well it has been drawn against among the hearing authorities. It was not, of course, because the policy we are going to develop in this area is far removed and is of great importance to many. The message has been able to take care of it and points to new and good ICT policies. However, it is not possible to conceal that it is a major challenge to shape an ICT policy in practice. This is a technology development that is moving at record speed, and one has to make it possible for the most part to be involved in this development. We will provide a good framework for growth and progress in ICT industries themselves, but not least we will ensure that other industries, public enterprises and the most individual human beings will also benefit from this technology development. It is very useful in connection with this relatively new technology: it is valuable and offers great potential. He makes it possible to improve the flow of information and better coordination of public services. He can simplify many processes in other industries and thus make us competitive for the future, even if we are a high-cost country. I was concerned that we had to facilitate the use of ICT by the majority of individuals. It's easier said than done, and it costs money. But the topic of ‘expenditure on income acquisition’ is well suited here. The means the public uses to stimulate more people to use ICT in private, in study and at work, will throw themselves away in many cases. ICT is simply a key driver of the economy, and it is a major potential for the future. In addition to the economic potential, there are other important possibilities. I would like to mention that we can use this technology positively to reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we make better use of video and teleconferencing, e-commerce and distance work. Technology can include more people, e.g. speech synthesis for people with reduced vision and making it easier for more people with different disabilities to handle different tools and machines. In order to achieve such a gain in the direction of universal design, we must be conscious of the goal, and the public itself must make demands on good and inclusive solutions for new purchases and updates of equipment. Within education, there are major changes in all the times when not only much information is available on the Internet, but so on. One hour of individual language training on data may be as instructive as an hour when 29 students share a teacher. Maybe it will open up alternative ways to use computers in teaching and free up learning resources so that we can put in more where it's most needed. So to broadband, it's a pleasure that we'll hopefully achieve the goal of broadband for everyone faster than we've ever believed. I still want to point to something that we usually don't focus on, but that I think will be more important in the time to come. More and more people spend more time on their cabins or leisure properties, because they have gradually become larger and better equipped, and because the working life is flexible and people have more leisure time. This is something I would call a decentralization in part-time, which is very positive because there is more often light in the windows and there are more people out in District Norway more of the year. And of course, we in the Center Party are very concerned about that. Now we've been thinking about how to secure broadband for everyone where people live. I think it's very positive if there's broadband coverage even where people have leisure property, and it's natural for me that we look closer to this once we've reached the goal of broadband in every home. It is not certain that the state will necessarily have some funding role here, but when the municipalities can now impose property taxes on cabins, it is an interesting perspective, at least. Finally, I would like to underline the importance of increasing efforts in the field of ICT research and development. The government has an ambitious goal of lifting the total research effort to 3 pst. GDP by 2010. We in the Center Party are the same way as the rest of the Committee agrees with the Government that we need to have an offensive investment in ICT research in the future. So finally, an interesting perspective in relation to the concerns that are sometimes expressed that the new technology is taking the work away from people. Then I would remind you of the story if what I believe was a ruler in Rome, who, when the wheel was invented, would not use it because he did not want the subjects to lose their work. It went well that time, and it probably does now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e496	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e499	I want to commend the Government for presenting this overall big message about ICT. It is a natural continuation of the offensive policy of the previous government in this area. It is also natural as a follow-up to the electoral commitments on broadband to all by 2007. The prevalence of broadband and the Internet have given rise to many positive effects. It concerns value creation, education, the efficiency of the public sector, the exercise of democracy and not least contact between people. People have had a simpler everyday life. The left wants us in Norway to continue to reap these benefits. It is therefore important to ensure the further development of broadband. Left supports the Government's ambitions for everyone to have access to broadband. Experience has shown that active use of the market has been the best strategy to ensure this. By reducing Telenor’s dominant position and opening up competition and thus new players, we have had a phenomenal expansion in a short time. Fortunately, the Central Party's wish to spend billions of dollars on this was not a leading policy, and now the state can focus on supporting development in areas where costs are greater than commercial income opportunities. This reasonable rise in the border between the country and the market is fundamental to the non-socialist thinking of the Left and provides the best results. The government is in danger of increasing public expenditure unnecessarily if it is not careful to close to this limit. If one is too uncritical with the promises of state intervention, e.g. by promising too much in a short time, one can help potential builders jump onto the fence while awaiting government funding instead of being creative co-players. In order to avoid unnecessary waste of public funds, it is important that authorities stimulate market forces instead of countering them and actively contribute to strengthening competition in the market. Then we get more broadband for the money. I am pleased that the Government itself sees the danger of abuse of market power, and that there is a need for good and up-to-date regulation to ensure consumers against overprice and for smaller players and new solutions to be able to win. It is important to identify broadband coverage with good up-to-date figures, and transparency about these conditions is important. The left continues to experience contact by desperate people who do not have broadband access. We want to help everyone get it. It's not just in the outer edges that it's still missing. Also in relatively centrally located municipalities, e.g. in Eastfold, it is still not coverage. I would therefore encourage the Government to present an overview of the real coverage of broadband in Norway, so that it is possible to adjust the effort accordingly. Another issue that is important for the Left in ICT policy is privacy. Albert Einstein should have once said: our time is marked by the peculiar circumstance that while the funds we have at our disposal are becoming more and more perfect, there is a growing confusion about the goals. Privacy is important for the freedom of individuals, and without a conscious privacy policy, we can end up in a monitored society. The EU Data Storage Directive could play a major role in the fundamental right to anonymous communication. The left is concerned that the implementation of this Directive will interfere with both privacy and freedom of expression. The Directive requires telephone and Internet service providers to store traffic and location data for at least six months and a maximum of two years. The aim of the Directive is to combat crime and terrorism. The left agrees that privacy needs to be balanced against such considerations, but the Data Storage Directive goes far too far in interfering with the freedom of ordinary citizens. I am therefore disappointed that the Government parties did not join the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left that, in the event of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, the Government ensures that information which the Directive requires countries to store is stored for a maximum of six months, which is the minimum framework for the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e528	The representative Tendeen from the Left is concerned that we need to do more to attract labour, so that technology companies that depend on highly skilled personnel get this. The member of the Left ‘ therefore requests that the rules on labour migration be amended and adjusted according to current and future needs: the transitional rules for the new EU countries should be repealed and the current skills requirements removed. A job-seeker visa should be introduced to allow people outside the EEA to apply for a job in Norway’. This is in a comment in the committee setting. Does the representative tend to see any concerns by draining other countries for the necessary skills that they too may need in order for us to get what we need?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e535	I thank you for this question. I have been so lucky to join India, and there we exchanged this kind of experience in relation to whether we – if Norway wishes it – would lose out, for example. India for high-level labour. The response from there was that, on the contrary, it was very important to replace highly skilled ICT workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e542	I have to congratulate the Left on the well-received national meeting and promise of new cooperation with the Government – and not least with SV – in the political everyday life. We're looking forward to that. Einstein was quoted. I like him too. He says the most important thing is that one never stops asking questions, so I will ask two questions. The question is what the representative Tenden says about the market, that the market should clean up the broadband coverage, and that the state should not do too much, because then the market will not clean up. Does this mean that a person has to cut off the loops of broadband to people around the country? We have a grizzly country, and not all of the places on the market work. The second question concerns the statutory right to anonymous movement. Does that mean that one should also legislate the right of pedestrians down in the city, who are under surveillance all the way? What does this proposal mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e553	I think it is a little strange that the representative Langeland does not see that the market has played a major role in the development of the broadband sector. That one can't be so generous and generous as to say that it's been great and it's been important, it surprises me. Then it's just that this government has promised broadband to the whole country – it was very important – by 2007. We're going to follow that closely. We had our instruments when it came to expanding broadband. When it comes to this government, we'll see what happens, and we'll ask the council a little bit later. Back to the question: it is simply so that the market has been very important in its development so far. [[The President clubs.]] So to the second question, about the proposal that I feel it has been a little hasselling with here today. I think it's a little bad done, to say it like that, because for the first time, Bård Hoksrud replied very well, and for the second, anonymous traffic in road traffic is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e562	I would like to remind the representatives that they must respect the fact that the speaking time in the sequence shift is up to 1 minute. No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e567	On 4 February 1997, Erik Solheim summarised an interview on ICT to the late Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland as follows: ‘If not’ — that is, the debate they had — ‘is the very first, at least it is one of the first steps this process has taken to take to take control of what can be politically controlled by IT development’. The debate came on the basis of a report by a State Secretary's Selection, the tenure of the then Secretary of State Torstein Rudihagen, no representative, followed by an information to the Stortinget given by the then Council of State Rugaas. Erik Solheim was a great optimist at the time – and still is – but it took ten years for a government to come back to Stortinget with a holistic big message about ICT. Just presenting the wide range of challenges was a key driving force in St.melding. No 17, An information society for all. Of course, I am pleased and grateful for the constructive work done by the Committee on the subject. It is not often a biggest message is so bulking. But I actually mean there's a point that it's gathering to take some big and important steps, so Norway is still following in the development of and using ICT. In addition to the Committee, the hearing bodies and the ICT industry, many of which have also been involved, have also been very positive to the message – with certain challenges, of course, as they should be, and which lie in the opposition’s comments, and there are some proposals that go beyond the Government’s. It was almost to be lacking that there was nothing we disagreed about! I still hope and believe that the message in total supports a holistic policy on how we, as participants and users, can benefit from ICT, how ICT as an engine for economic growth can develop, and not least how ICT can renew the public sector. All are a keyword for the message. By recognizing the enormous impact of ICT on nearly every area of society, we also assume a responsibility to ensure that technology reaches out and can be used by the most possible. There are three specific requirements that must be on the basis of which we have to cope: that there is access for everyone, that the solutions are universally designed, and that our citizens have the competence to implement the solutions. With regard to digital access, the government has seen more money for broadband construction than ever before, and we've already had a fairly comprehensive broadband discussion. The initiative has produced results: by the end of the year, it is estimated that we will have reached 98 pst. So we're going to go closer to the goal of full coverage. Over the summer, I want to come back – I have told you before – with a detailed coverage figure at municipal level. There is nothing I need to do – I have notified that I am going to do, and of course I am going to publish it. Then we are told about these white spots that remain. Additional broadband to reach the Soria Moria target of 100 pst. Of course, we will come back to coverage in the budgetary processes. We are on the verge of spreading ICT in society. That's great. But it's equally important that we include and make the different ICT solutions available to everyone, including those that are outside today for different reasons. We have to make sure that ICT solutions are universally designed so that everyone can use them independently of poor vision, poor hearing, or any other type of disability. Blind and partially syndicated, but also dyslexics, wear today unnecessarily with the use of mini-banks, ticket machines and websites. So this is completely unnecessary, because there are solutions that allow you to include all of them. I am pleased that this issue has been so wide-ranging and wide-ranging in the Committee's proceedings, for this is important that one has cross-political pressure to do something about it. ICT is now being incorporated into the government's work with a new law on discrimination and accessibility, with which we return to the Stortinget at a later date. But it doesn't help to access if you don't have the skills to use the technology! Digital competence in the whole population is a means of participation. The investment in ICT in the school will be reinforced further and is important. The government's aim is to provide Norwegian schools with a world-wide run-up to the use of ICT in education and learning. A municipal economy that has been strengthened by over 18 billion kroner is of course the most important to strengthen the Norwegian school. But one can't just bet on the school. We have too many people in the world who either can't use data or have never learned to use data. For this reason, the Minister of Knowledge and the Government have increased the scope of the Basic Skills Programme to over 35 million. kr, precisely to stimulate employers to give their added digital skills. Then it's the well-grown 55+ in this country that don't have digital competence, it's about 800,000. Of course, it's a question for employers, but it's also not least a challenge that I see our volunteer teams and organizations with a lot of interest and a lot of enthusiasm coming to grips with. We support that policy through our general policy and support for voluntary teams and organisations. We took $1 million. kr to Seniornett as late as last autumn, etc. for the work they do to provide the older part of the population with digital competence. Then there's more of them in research. Research is crucial to ensure that developments in ICT and the use of new technologies are as good as we want. More have suggested that the research funds for ICT are low. So even if the area has been given priority, one has not been given the same counting as the other research areas. We want to do something about that. The notification also points to ICT's driving force in the economy. It's important that the Government and the Storting are aware of, because it's about how we're going to facilitate that ICT can actually continue to be the driving force in the economy that we see he is. The government has the ambition to create the world's best public sector. Then we have to focus on how to renew ourselves, so that the public sector is in line with what our citizens expect of us. We have a two-part ambition: users will meet an open, accessible and coherent public sector, offering holistic and complete digital services through good electronic self-punishment solutions, and we will streamline and release resources using ICT, in order to strengthen public welfare in other areas. More have been involved in the fragmented developments that have taken place in the state sector. We're doing something about it. The government demands that the enterprises cooperate to a far greater extent in the establishment of more and better electronic 24-hour services. We've already launched Miside. After a month already 150,000 Norwegians had signed in on that page. We're working on that kind of bet. We need to get our ICT systems to interact better. That means we have to build an ICT architecture. Here we take action – precisely coordinating, coordinating action. We're working on open standards. We're setting up a standardisation council last fall, which is now finished with the first version of the reference directory. We'll send it on the phone in a short time. Again, the government is taking steps to coordinate and coordinate ICT in the public sector. We've run 10 million. kr in the current year for work on open standards and open source, because we see that when the systems can communicate, a lot more of that investment than they already had. One example of shaking on the head is that within the health care system, five regional health care agencies have invested in patient journals from three different software providers, and municipalities have ordered from another six! Within one city, a hospital cannot send patient information to another because one has different systems! That's what the government is doing when we get to the standard discussion. It is proof that we are addressing this coordination and coordination challenge. Then there is privacy, which several drivers have been in. It is clear that new technology is challenging privacy in more and more areas. But I think we need to take a positive look at it, and we need to look at how we can use the technology to act as privacy-promoting rather than privacy-retardant. In the population, there is great confidence that public enterprises and also private companies take care of privacy for people. They do not think so much about it until the information is misused. We hope that by setting down a data protection commission, we will achieve more things. The Data Protection Commission will review laws and regulations in this area – now it is a bit fragmented in different laws and regulations – and make suggestions on how laws and regulations can be better, but not least help to get the open, good debate on e.g. how privacy is challenged within the sphere of transport and health. The Privacy Commission will contribute to this, and we will of course return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. Now we're going to put down a commission first, and they're going to get jobs, and then of course we're going to report back to the Stortinge in our own way what's the result of the Commission's work. I shall end by quoting former Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland's response to the interpellation that Erik Solheim had ten years ago. Jagland said the following: «The capital of the future is knowledge. The future distribution policy is the distribution of knowledge – to distribute knowledge to the whole population, to involve everyone, to give everyone the opportunity to search for knowledge on the networks, to have knowledge of the machines to do so. And that's primarily what the Government's ambition is in the years to come." That was well said then, and that is well said no.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e626	This government loves to brag by itself. I want to take some of the broken promises to this government. They're actually in line: there's $1 billion in deficit on the railway. That's 600 million. kr in road deficit in relation to the national transport plan for 2006-2007. The nursery agreement makes a gap in the number of places. You can't fulfill the maximum price promise. The promise of hot school food in primary school is not followed up by the Government, and now it is the promise of broadband to all by 2007 who are also not followed up. Is the Council of State happy to get into this series of broken promises from the Government, or can we now expect the Council of State to be able to ensure that everyone gets broadband, as the Government promised in the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e633	It was then a strange list of equals and differences. There was never any mention of hot food in the Soria Moria statement. That was SV's call. Soria Moria didn't get any plurals. Thus, there is no part of what this government is going to do in the next four years. At least one gets to try to clear up a little bit of what is the government's promise, and what was SV's promise in the election campaign. So we have four years to complete the Soria Moria statement. But we're going to have fulfilled the broadband promise by the end of the year. We've doubled the bet on broadband compared to the previous government. We recognise that we should get broadband out to all districts and outstretched areas and top noodles in this country, the public must contribute – unlike the previous government, which meant that the market would take everything. We say that the public should contribute. This year we're biting with 122 million. kr grouped over the Høkom programme, not everything goes to infrastructure, but mostly, 100 million. kr, goes to infrastructure. We've said that now we're going to do a new mapping, so we're going to get the last white spots in place. Then it's a question of the promise. We have revised the national budget for the door, and then we have a new state budget for the cottage. I have good faith that we will be able to fulfill the Soria Mora promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e640	I asked a question to the representative of Langeland from the Government Party about the Minister of Renewal and Administration had enough authority to implement the many good actions pointed out in the communication. The representative of Langeland agreed with me that the Minister of Renewal should have more tools and more opportunities to coordinate and operate through public ICT policies. I pointed out that there are 340 decision-makers in the state sector, but then the Minister of Renewal said in his speech that she actually has enough power and authority. The evidence of this was, among other things, this with open standards, universal design, etc. I'm getting a little confused. Does the Minister feel that she has enough authority to put this policy into practice? And is the Minister ready to settle with all the small kings in the ICT departments around the 340 state levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e647	The funny thing about that line is that he comes from the Right. Right-hand seat of the Bondevik II Government. We've also had a Bondevik I government. Since 1997, I believe that it is up to 140 state agencies that have been regionalised, AS-certified, that were put off and released. That's the right policy, that's – New Public Management is freedom, postponing competition, AS-certification of state agencies. And then you wake up to a blue moon day and see what we've been saying all along, that this challenges a lot of problem settings, that's how to coordinate and coordinate when you have big and important challenges. I'm glad that Right now sees the same thing. I hope it will have consequences for future policies in the same area. But I just want to say that I want more power. What council is it that doesn't want any more power and authority in its area? I have now started working on ICT architecture with common components. It's out on the phone, and standards are coming up on the phone in a very short time. That means having one of those possibilities and grasping that possibility, one has the power one is capable enough to acquire in a college of governments. And as I said, other hearings are on the go. There's more coming, and I'm looking to Right's support for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e656	It will be no longer right to repeat the fact that the previous government would not use state funds for ICT. As far as I know, Høkom came already in the time of the central government. Let it be said once and for all. And then we have a common goal. The Christian People's Party also wants us to get broadband to everyone as soon as possible. But I think, unfortunately, that with the means that are now on the table, we will not reach goals in 2007, but as soon as possible. There are many counterpowers, and I have recently had many telephones from frustrated customers who have called Telenor and asked for ADSL. Telenor has done a formidable job in the area, but now it looks like there's a bomb stop. SV is busy with government control. Then I would like to ask the Minister: is the Minister willing to enter into a conversation with Telenor to see if we can get more open to get ADSL into the houses where the cable is located?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e665	It is quite right, as Jan Sahl says, that the Høykom programme came under a civil government. It is a great program. But the Høkom programme, as it was set at that time, did not directly contribute to the construction of infrastructure by stimulating demand for broadband. That's what this government has done, so we per. Today, 100 million have been spent. NOK 122 for direct construction, while the last SEK 22 million. kr is for further requested. There's kind of a difference in the broadband rate. It is clear that we have a dialogue with Telenor, because Telenor is an important and great supplier. The way we have chosen to organise broadband through Højkom leads to the fact that municipalities and county municipalities coordinate the white spots in their area. Then there's a big enough offer that's interesting, too, for Telenor. We cannot require Telenor to take a single region [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e672	The President will remind the Council of State that, for reply, there is a speaking time of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e675	There has been some focus on the proposal for the right to anonymous movement in road traffic. Is the right to anonymous road traffic important for the Council of State? If so, in what way will she carry it out?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e680	The message states that the Government wants to continue working with the right to travel anonymously, whether it is in road traffic or elsewhere. It is clear that there is a question that the Government will continue to work on. In addition, of course, there should be a theme that the Commission is discussing, that they look at the possibilities of what can be done in relation to new technologies, and where to go. There's no point in putting down a commission if you've already decided what to do. I and the government have said that when we look down on a commission, it's to get good advice and to have a public debate on the different issues. We know that there are a lot of issues, both EU directives and other issues, especially in the field of transport. They have to take one on the way. It's the Minister of Transport's responsibility. She will come back to Stortinget with the matters pending, for they cannot wait until the Commission is finished. Then the Minister of Transport will present his views on these matters. It's not my job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e687	I have tried to count, and I think there are more than 50 measures mentioned in the Storing Message. The ambitions of this important area are great. The government shall be in favour of this. The Progress Party would like to receive annual feedback from the Storting on the follow-up and the impact of these more than 50 actions. How will the Council of State ensure feedback from the Storting? The Council of State itself, by responding to questions from the Committee on ICT expenditure, has shown that the estimate for the public sector is at a point between DKK 6.5 and 11.5 billion a year. How are we to see the impact of these annual measures in the public sector? An important point in this Communication is that it facilitates the development and renewal of the public sector by using ICT technology. Then we also have to see that we get something left for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e696	I'm glad to hear that the Progress Party thinks it's an ambitious message. I've heard that one has said the opposite as well. A shopping message is something other than a proposition. A staging message shall be informative and analysing in its form. But we've chosen to put in a good deal of concrete measures that we're going to follow up, precisely because we want to be ambitious. The Storing Feedback will happen in a slightly different way. Some things, for example: The Privacy Commission's work, we must come back with them in our own way when they have finished their work. I have said that we should make our own ICT information security case. For us in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, it would be natural to use budgetary documents in general to give a general response to the work we do, and of course because it could be follow-up when it comes to means. The Minister of Knowledge will be responsible for a good part of the follow-up. Some government councils have to report back when they come with changes in laws and budget proposals to the Storting, as is the tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e704	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e707	An ICT policy must aim at exploiting the opportunities offered by technology, while at the same time counteracting and mitigating undesirable impacts. The Storting Message An information society for everyone is discussing, among others: These challenges and draw up measures to achieve the goals in a very good way in my view. The title, an information society for all, illustrates a clear goal: the technology must be made available and should be exploitable by all. We need to avoid new divisions in society. This is why training is strengthened in schools at all levels and in society otherwise. Nevertheless, many people don't have the technology or can't or won't use it. Many will be outside for many years to come. I want to express some anxiety about these. We can't create a society where public information is completely electronic. Many will still need to deliver their own messages on paper, many will need a telephone directory on paper, and many will still need a bank to pay their bills. In our quest to exploit ICT and streamline all communication, we need to avoid making someone in society closest to the disabled. A requirement for everyone to have the same possibility is broadband access for everyone. Here the government has a real boost through the Høkom funds, which the Council of State has also briefed on. I still call on the Government to assess the continuation of this, to cover where there is still a hole. It applies not only in the districts, but, as we also heard, in more central areas. When we started talking about the IT revolution, there were many who feared job losses. Now we see, as many of us of course have suggested, that developments create far more jobs than what has disappeared. ICT industry is a strong industry in itself, and the industry and industry that exploits technology increases value creation and competitiveness. In industrial companies – I often belong to the industrial environment at Raufoss – they say that they participate in a World Championship every day. They cannot compete on wages but must have the best products and – equally important – the best production method, based on the latest and best computer technology. The furniture industry was dying in Norway, but manufacturers who have been offensive and taking robots and other technologies in use have not only increased production dramatically but also added numbers – precisely because they have been competitive. An important policy area is therefore to stimulate and support the industry in this, through research tools, a strong Innovation Norway and SIVA, with many and good tools. ICT has a large district-friendly potential because it can be carried out anywhere in the country, but it may as well be centralised, because much of the activity can be located and carried out from a central area. We see that enterprises are established on edge, because technology makes it possible. But that's not enough. De-mobilisation and centralisation take place, as well as a lot of long-term commuting. The emigration of government activity that has taken place in the last few years was a correct and important measure, although it is already triggering considerable resistance and professional challenges in a transitional phase. When it's been a while, these institutions work brilliantly where they are. The location of the specialised NAV offices in the districts, which are just agreed, is probably a brilliant measure. ICT opens up the possibility of doing work from home, greater flexibility and better ability to combine care and work. But those who do the job from home can quickly become lonely. We all need a social and professional environment around us. For these and for a number of small businesses, the food parks around the country are entirely decisive for their ability to and will be out in District Norway. SIVA has an important role and role in business and district policy. We need to take care of and further develop these business environments. The introduction of a differentiated employer’s fee was important, likein’s regional development funds through Innovation Norway and the County Municipality. The point is, if we are to exploit the territorially friendly potential that will be there, we must have a policy that revolves in the same direction in a range of areas. An active ICT policy that enables us to exploit the opportunities offered by technology requires coordination with other policies at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e730	Technological developments are emerging in quantum leaps in many areas of technology. Information and communication technologies have changed the world and are likely to continue to do so. ICT erases borders and intervenes in all social sectors and areas. ICT reverses the old notions of ‘must’ and ‘shall’. Hardly have we learned from old aids and performances and made an effort to get into new ones, before new challenges get to grips with us. Developments in the field of ICT do not simply erase borders, reduce the impact of physical distances, reduce time use and reduce time differences. Technological development simplifies tasks in ways that we could hardly imagine in the past, giving us new opportunities and expanded capacity that are dramatic to their extent. It can be a good development, which also presents us with major challenges. The way we meet the challenges is crucial to whether it is going to be a good development. St.meld. No 17 has the title An information society for everyone. If there is to be an information society for all, everyone must have a technical opportunity to participate; broadband must be available. The coverage needs to be improved. The measurement of coverage needs to be improved and coverage targets also need to be linked to speed in the broadband network. The broadband network is the information society's road network. Information exchange infrastructure is as important as traditional transport infrastructure, perhaps as important. Norway should aim to be among the best. Norway can also afford to ensure good broadband coverage for its citizens. If there is to be an information society for all, everyone must be able to participate – not only technically, but also through knowledge of how ICT is used. Universal design has a new dimension. Whether that challenge is not met is excluded by many. Then it won't be a good development. If, as a nation, we are to be able to make good use of ICT in a good way, we all need to have digital competence. In particular, it is necessary to focus on our education system providing such digital competence. The reform of basic education – the promise of knowledge – will provide students with a broad basic competence and make clear requirements for basic skills. It is important, correct and happy that one of these five basic skills that students should have is digital competence. The Progress Party believes that ICT should be integrated into education as early as possible and that ICT should be introduced as a mandatory subject from the first grade of primary school. It is also important to ensure that all primary and secondary school students have access to the technology, while at the same time ensuring that all pupils receive good training. The Progress Party believes that the school PC should be introduced as part of the school material for secondary school students and that the entire basic education should be publicly funded. The party points out that ICT-based learning offers new opportunities to increase learning outcomes and to strengthen cooperation between home and school throughout basic education. This presupposes that PCs and broadband are also available in students’ homes. This presents challenges in an overall ICT strategy for the public sector in general and for the education sector in particular, and must be followed up by the Government. I have earlier in a line pointed to the pressure that parents and students are being subjected to by hanging in the swings on the challenge that is actually already underway. It must not be excluded that the home does not have a PC. It must not be excluded that the home does not have broadband. ICT enables the substantial renewal and development of the public sector. It can release both money and personnel. However, it is important that the large use of ICT in the public sector, i.e. DKK 6–12 billion, produces results. Public sector planning and reporting must demonstrate the impact of ICT bets and how they are used. Nor will there be any good development with quantum leaps within ICT if we do not at the same time maintain data protection in a good way. On the contrary, it could be a monitoring society. We have to avoid that. Then we have to be careful, take action and not least listen to those who are set to guard privacy on behalf of all citizens of the country. We who are elected here should feel a special responsibility for that very thing. Monitoring systems can be misused and they can change the balance of power between individuals and the public. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring the privacy of individuals and is therefore deeply concerned about the weak reasons for storing all our movements, and the lack of willingness to assess the risks of such systems. The Progress Party believes that the use of these systems may occasionally appear only because of the existence of the solutions and because it is effective and practical for the monitor to identify the individual automatically. For the Progress Party, it is particularly provocative that one of the main driving forces for this is the increasing level of toll financing and the related toll collection. The Party assumes that the Data Protection Commission carefully assesses such a issue. The Party underlines once again the right to remain anonymous, the right to require the deletion of electronic tracks and the requirement for non-active surveillance where measures are not justified by safety of life and health. What should we do while waiting for the recommendations of the Data Protection Commission? In any case, we should listen very carefully to the views and recommendations of the Data Protection Authority. When dealing with matters that allow vehicle and person monitoring, the Progress Party will primarily require such cases to be dealt with until data protection conditions have been dealt with, sub-stantially submit proposals for non-active monitoring and active track deletion. The Party will point out that it is important that privacy considerations and privacy-friendly technologies are incorporated into projects already in the design phase and that there should be a requirement for impact assessments to also be carried out on privacy issues relating to schemes where vehicle and person monitoring is possible. We also know that the Data Storage Directive is on its way to Stortinget. The Progress Party, together with the other opposition parties, will agree that Norway, when required to store data, will use the minimum 6 month framework of the Directive as a timeframe and not the maximum 24 month framework of the Directive. The Progress Party will stress that privacy issues need to be addressed carefully both before and when accession proposals come to the Storting. This should also demonstrate how to ensure protection of privacy in Norwegian ways – not primarily in the EU way. Let me finally say some words related to proposal No. 7, which is obviously a bit of a hustle and bustle from some of the representatives of the government parties. I'm a little surprised, because when we move active surveillance out of the crime-prevention area, with the protection of life, health and property in relation to crime as a framework, and into the legal road network, so that different actors and different authorities can use collected information for many different purposes that are not related to crime-fighting, then we move borders and move far into community surveillance. That's what we're trying to point to in proposal No. 7, which we're sorry that no more join.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e780	ICT says we often have an infinite potential, a potential not only within one sector, but within all. This technology is a foundation for everything we do in our modern society. Just as we are totally dependent on electricity for Norway to go around, so we are also completely dependent on information and communication technology. But within ICT, we just can't settle down that we have it, or that the web is in place, even though the government is doing an excellent job ensuring it now in the daytime. We're up to 98 pst. Coverage now, and we're getting closer and closer to 100 pst. But this is an area that needs to be developed day by day. If we don't manage to be far ahead in this area, in the future we will become a nation that lies behind. The fact that we have oil in this country, we can just get a little bit on our way. If we are to ensure growth and prosperity in the future, information and communication technologies are an area of activity that must not be neglected. In the message we can read that e-business in the oil sector generates billions of revenue. I think that too many of us think of ICT as something diffuse, which is particularly interesting in the boys' room. ABB, on the other hand, can tell us that an investment of DKK 25 billion could increase the income potential by NOK 250 billion over the next three years. It should be something that interests most people. Now I do not have figures for all sectors, but I have seen that in Denmark, they say that an investment of DKK 1 billion in ICT in the public sector can provide a saving of NOK 17 billion. That's why this big message will be one of the most important ones that's been presented here in Stortingen for a long time. This Communication is a key tool for developing the public sector and creating new jobs and innovation. But ICT is also useful in other areas. The Internet is still helping to connect people. I heard earlier mention Erik Solheim talking about something else on Sunday. Then he told me that he wrote a book in 1996 or something like that, where, according to him, he almost totally missed out on defining what the Internet was, and the challenges. But maybe the reason was that the few people at that time had heard about the Internet. Today, all Internet users – we are on the Internet. A few weeks ago, I was on my own, or came up with – or whatever it is called – ‘Face Book’, which is a place where you put out images of yourself, can connect with friends you have, invite people to things, or send out pictures of what you’ve done lately. It is a fantastic opportunity, because suddenly you can have contact with friends from many years back in time without it cost too much. Without too much effort, I now know what those I went to high school with at Holmlia are doing by day. This, of course, is really nice, but it's also a little scary. Those who use this network must have digital competence. Because it's online as in the rest of the world, not all people are kind. A nice holiday picture can suddenly become something completely different in the hands of people with suspicious intentions, and now I'm not just thinking about journalists. And it's easy to manipulate people who have put out too much information about themselves and their friends in the open network. It is therefore positive that the Council of State has notified measures in this area and is to ensure children and young digital competences. For my part, it was the political adviser of the Council of State who pointed out that it was a good idea to increase the safety level of the Face Book. One of them that makes it easier for me to keep in touch with this, is my sister, who is studying in Ålborg. The point is not to say exactly that, but that she now on holiday showed me something called a health insurance card, which they have in Denmark. It's a very nice system. It is a card with which the Danish State has equipped it, which contains a lot of personal data, and which can be used for anything from medical visits to library visits – a card that can be used for the most part. I think this is great, and that's why I'm glad that the government is now working on the eID. I have now been equipped by banks with up to several similar eIDs. But I think it's not the banking system's job to define who I am. I very much want the Norwegian state to create a system that allows me to identify myself as who I am, no matter what system it should be. It is possible it sounds a little scary to the Left and others that we should have such a card, but I believe in any case that it is the future, and I am pleased that the minister is working on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e801	Digital competences in the population, good public services and predictable framework conditions are necessary for Norway to remain one of the world’s best countries to live in. That our common development should be inclusive and include all, is more than a heart cause for this government. It is imperative to balance the differences between generations. ICT, by its very nature, is cross-border and intervenes in all sectors and societal areas. If there is only a willingness to coordinate, this provides great opportunities for benefits from the coordinated exploitation of the shared resources of society. St.meld. No 17 sets out a strong ambition that ‘our common development should be inclusive and inclusive’, that ICT should be actively used to reduce societal disparities, and not least that the whole population should be able to use ICT if they so wish. This is a very positive starting point for the work of making the information society accessible to all. At the same time, I miss an even clearer marking of a senior policy perspective on development, with greater emphasis on what is needed for the seniors to experience as included. There are in particular four areas I would like to highlight here: lack of digital competence in the older part of the population and thus the risk of increasing social inequalities in order to maintain the role of parallel manual systemseldresen centres and the role of voluntary organisations in the enhancement of ICT skills for employees in public enterprises, which is supposed to fulfil important advisory functions in relation to the unmanaged part of the population Large groups of seniors are not computer users. It could be the picture for years to come. I would like to point out that there are major challenges to seniors who have not been in the profession or who have left it, and to those who are going to leave the profession in the future. The age group aged 67–79 years currently uses about 10 %. 3 minutes on the Internet an average day, while 16- to 19-year-olds use over an hour. While younger users have increased significantly in recent years, the same increase has not occurred in them for more than 60 years. By contrast, the age group of 55–66 years uses the net for 10 minutes more than 9–12 years, and there is reason to believe that this is due to the use of the PC and the Internet in the context of work. It is of course important that the availability of ICT is increased through the further development of broadband. In my opinion, an extraordinary effort must be made for years to come to ensure that seniors are included in the information society. I point out that the UK government is spending a lot of money to improve the skills of data and network usage of those who are outside the digital community, among other things. seniors. Requirements for traditional manual services and service forms must be maintained in order to provide equal services to those who cannot use electronic services. As noted on page 68 of the Storing Communication, older people over the age of 60 and pensioners are major consumers of barrier services. It is important that both public and private service providers provide such manual, not electronic services when requested. As pointed out above, for many years to come, we will experience that many do not use data as a tool to achieve public and private services. When, at the same time, the size of such services increases for the population using data, we risk increasing social disparities. I would therefore like to emphasise that all public offices must have public terminals available, and that users of these are given good guidance by living people – not just on-screen instructions. St.meld. No 17 places great emphasis on enabling the population to master ICT and points to the libraries as a forum for increasing digital literacy in the population. I agree that the libraries are important in this context, but hardly able to solve all the problems. I would also like to highlight the role of the elderly centres. Elder centres have a central place in life for a large part of the elderly and are important to reach this part of the population. In an increased effort for digital inclusion, the elderly centres can play an important role. Increased efforts to strengthen their role as a channel of digital competence may strengthen the ability and ability of senior citizens to participate. Facilitated data training, access to computer equipment and in-use guidance are essential to ensure senior access to the information society. Therefore, I would like to stress that the elderly centres can play a very central role if they are given financial opportunities. In addition, both elderly centres and other natural community meeting places can act as service centres, such as: public employees and others — a few hours a week — can help older people to provide the necessary services based on the use of ICT.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e849	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e852	The Internet has become a matter of course. Most of what we do in the real world, we can now do on the Internet as well. We talk, seek information, provide tax returns, trade and pay bills online. However, my perspective is slightly different from that of the speakers before me. The Internet can undoubtedly make everyday life easier, but at the same time we have to assume that the possibility of acting anonymously also makes the Internet a tempting venue for criminals. We see a trend in which new forms of crime are constantly finding the way to the web. There may be fraud, financial crime, the communication channel for organised criminals and crime against children. There is an urgent need to rust up the legislation in such a way that it is accurate and effective against illegal acts on the Internet. It's especially crime directed at children who worry me. Adults are better equipped to understand when they take a risk, and what they must be on guard against online. Children are far more vulnerable online, even though they are physically few meters from their parents in their home. We already have many examples of children being recruited to criminal environments online, ordering drugs online, and being sexually assaulted by people they have become acquainted with via the Internet. Some children have even been tricked into trafficking in human beings and prostitution. On the Internet, we see for adults how the distinction between public and private life is becoming increasingly eroded. The danger of this is even greater in the case of children. Children offer uncritical contact information, residence addresses, pictures, personal thoughts, talking to ‘webfriends’ about disputes with parents, etc. The fact that the information remains out to «eternal time» is one thing, which is quite another, that this can also serve as a look-up for those who want to become peers, in order to get in touch. The survey last examined a proposal for a representative from the Right with a number of measures to prevent child abuse through the use of the Internet. The vulnerability of children in a virtual world where potential attackers feel unseen by other adults requires that we take our precautions. The right proposed, inter alia: an investigation into a grooming facility and the establishment of a resource centre for the protection of children in accordance with the model of a centre in England. The Centre has accumulated competence from a number of different organisations and industry associations and works online in order to protect children while online, and its own educational programme for adults and children is being developed to address potential risks of abuse. In Norway, the SAFT project, with heavy EU funding, has contributed to increased focus on children and the Internet. There are a number of examples of action they have taken, but unfortunately the project is now at risk because the Government has not shown its willingness to take over the funding when EU funds end later this year. I would therefore, as strongly as I can, urge the Minister of Renewal to take responsibility for continuing SAFT and to support the Minister of Justice so that he can have the means to implement as much of the proposals of the Faremo Committee as possible, on important measures to ensure that children are safe in the virtual world. If we are to have an information society for everyone, we must also have driving rules that protect children on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e873	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[See page 2558]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e889	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e898	The proposal concerns the cost of oil pollution remediation work following the decommissioning of the Cyprus-registered cargo vessel MS ‘Server’ at Hellisøy Light on 12 January of this year. Total costs are estimated at 225.5 million. kr. The Committee is of the opinion that this type of cost should be avoided by the State, but would at the same time point out that the pollution law provides for pollution which is responsible for the costs of reducing and purifying the oil beer. It is therefore appropriate that the State's costs of oil protection be reimbursed in due course, in accordance with the applicable legislation. The Committee, acting unanimously in favour of the proposal in the proposal, shall submit it as a referral to the decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e909	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2559]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e917	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e925	During the debate, 22 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-11, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 12, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 13, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 14–16, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 17, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 18-21, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection 22, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left Mr Gunnar Gundersen has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e952	In the course of the debate, the rapporteur expressed a wish that the proposals should be put to the vote. 10, 13 and 22 were to be sent to the department. As regards proposal No: 13, we asked for a confirmation from the Council of State that he would come back to it in connection with the 2008 state budget. That confirmation did not come, but that does not prevent the proposals from No. 10 and 22 may be sent to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e957	Åsa Elvik – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e960	The proposalers are allowed to take it for what it is worth, but the case-speaker has spoken to the Council of State, which can confirm that on proposal No. 13 is sent without any real-life treatment by the Stortinget, he will ensure that that proposal is referred to in the 2008 budget, if that is what the Stortinget wants. Then we thank you for the proposal No. Ten and twenty-two are also being transmitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e965	Gunnar Gundersen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e968	In that case, proposal No. 13 transmitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e973	Proposals Nos. 10, 13 and 22 have been converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 10, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, the Christian Party, and the Left, saying in amended form, ‘It is recommended that the Government amend the legislation to include more young people with special needs under the scheme of grants to enterprises that include apprentices with special needs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1031	Proposal No. 17, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left are admitted to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for immediate action to be taken by the Government to increase the number of pre-school teachers in the kindergarten sector, and to return to the Stortinget with a statement to that effect at the latest in the context of the 2007 Revised National Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1046	Proposals Nos. 14–16, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1076	Proposal No. 12, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a separate study funding case to ensure that everyone, regardless of their own or the family’s economy, can receive financial support for higher education. The sum of loans/grants must ensure sufficient purchasing power for the student to study full-time.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1091	Proposals Nos. 1–5, 7–9 and 11, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, are addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1157	Proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, is taken up to vote. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to launch a research project in which a representative group of children is followed over a long period of time. Research should seek to identify differences in development related to choice of care solution, social background and ethnic origin.’» The President assumes that the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1202	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 6, by Mr Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the Right and on the Left. 7 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 8, from Bård Hoksrud
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1233	Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to put forward proposals to legitimise the right of law-abiding citizens to anonymous traffic in road traffic.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1248	Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left are taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a notification based on the work of the Privacy Commission within 2 years of the appointment of the Commission.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1254	The Christian People's Party has announced that we want to support proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1270	Proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16-2.ana.ud476e1545	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
