ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e41	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Åsa Elvik. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e51	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a draft representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e54	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Odd Einar Dørum, Gunvald Ludvigsen, André N. Skkelstad and myself on the law amending Law No 8 April 1981. 7 about children and parents, also called the Children's Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e59	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e73	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e82	There is broad consensus in the Committee that student relations are an appropriate way of organising student welfare. The Student Cooperation Scheme has long traditions and is unique in Norway. The Committee also agrees that it is time to upgrade the legislation. I would like to thank the Department for having involved the student organisations in this work. I'm going to explain the majority's comments, and then I'm going to assume that the opposition will explain the minority proposals. As regards the law submitted to Stortinget, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party propose to amend Section 4, second paragraph. We believe it is important to ensure that all the students offered the services of interaction, such as housing, canteen operations, training centres, health services, etc. We will eliminate the possibility of obtaining exemptions from student co-ordination requirements for all institutions covered by the Law on Higher Education from the date of entry into force of the new Student Co-operation Act. This means that it is still possible for private institutions which were covered by the Law of Higher Education before that date to apply for exemption. There may be grounds for clarifying that the proposal does not imply any change for State universities and higher education institutions. These do not have the possibility to apply for exemptions from student cooperation requirements under the applicable law and will still not have it under the new law. As far as this paragraph is concerned, we have attended recordings from both student organisations, both StL and NSU. I want to quote StL: ‘All students must be guaranteed good welfare arrangements from a student relationship following a common law. For example, StL does not want private service providers to be able to deal with student relations.» NSU says the following: ‘There is currently no minimum requirement for the provision of services by a student interface, but there is a general tendency that communications extend far in order to offer the best possible welfare offer to the associated students. The NSU is concerned that the possibility of seeking exemption from association would create a need to define what is contained in ‘satisfactory welfare arrangements’. Setting a standard list of what a student relationship is to offer can at the same time be a list of what a student relationship is not to offer, thus helping to limit the ambitions of student relations for what kind of offers they want to have available to their students.’ I am very happy to be the case rapporteur for a matter where the majority have listened to the students. Finally, I'm going to make a little addition. In the option at the top of page 4, the word ‘student’ stands for ‘cooperation’. That's where it's gone a little bit. the sentence is replaced by the following: ‘The majority will remove this possibility for the institutions covered by the Law on Higher Education from the date of entry into force of the new Student Cooperation Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e113	The corrections submitted by the applicant's rapporteur have been recorded. The next speaker is Jon Jørgen Gåsvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e118	Jon Hunter Gåsvatn, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e123	I'm sorry! You can't bring everything with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e126	Today we have 25 student relations in Norway, and the oldest one then the light of day in 1939. We need to deal with a legislative amendment that comes, among other things. because there has been a question of the ministry's exercise of powers over interactions and as a result of a discussion of the nature of the activity with which student relationships can operate. In this respect, I would like to mention the proposal of the representative of the Progress Party where we proposed to abolish the requirement of compulsory membership in student relations. The background to that proposal was that student relations took a stand and made political decisions with which some students had problems identifying themselves. For reasons of conscience, the student therefore wanted no longer to be part of the organisation, with the dramatic consequence that the student lost the right to take the exam. The majority would not support our proposal when the matter was dealt with, and they referred to the law access for the student to complain about the board decision for the department. We must note that this right of appeal is now being proposed removed. The progress party is pleased that the law emphatically defines the tasks of student relations and that the main task is to address the welfare needs of the individual learning centre. However, there is no possibility of sanctions against a co-operation board if they are able to accommodate and operate, for example: political agitation. If a student feels offended and wants to break the organization, he will still lose the law. The Progress Party will therefore promote an amendment aimed at countering this by allowing each student to inform the Ministry that the interaction is not conducted in line with the letter of the Act. With our proposal, the students can reserve themselves against the transfer of the holiday fee to the interaction, and the fee will then be transferred to the educational institution. It is the department which is the supervisory authority of student cooperation. By adopting the proposals of the Progress Party, one will ensure that the student can be a warning to the ministry. At the same time, the student pays his vacation fee, he retains the law, and he may have peace with his conscience. We are pleased that student interaction can offer services to a limited extent to non-students, but that this part of commercial activities is kept accounting separate from other activities. The special advantages of student co-operation with public support both in the form of transfers and premises could quickly lead to a conflict with EEA legislation if no such accounting separation is introduced. Government lots and opposition separate layers at a significant point in the law and in relation to the requirement of association. The Government Parties will impose a mandatory commitment obligation on institutions approved after 1 August 2008, while the minority will follow the Ministry’s proposal that the requirement continue to be exempted if the institution has another satisfactory welfare organisation. The Ministry points out that, in some cases, the provision of well-being may be of better quality if the educational institution itself can choose how it is organised. The Ministry wants the same opportunity for state and private universities and colleges. We know that today there are some private colleges that have a special life-view basis, where well-being forms an integral part of this. With the proposals of the Government Parties, it will no longer be possible to establish such institutions. We also know that private institutions receive far less public funding than government funds. This proposal by the government parties is probably an attack on the ability of private educational institutions. It is probably an attack on institutions' desire to set up a training offer based on a specific life-view basis. Despite the suggestion by the Ministry that an exemption may still be applied for, the government parties are going through their uniformity. The Ministry argues that both educational institutions and students should be able to promote their opinions and that this should be given priority before the department decides whether to grant an exemption. But the government parties say that there is no reason to listen to the educational institution. There is also no need to listen to the students, because the government parties know best. Although, according to the Department, it actually means that some institutions may have a lower offer, the government parties are pleased to have introduced another rule that makes Norway more square and one-sided. With this, I will be allowed to raise the proposal on which the Progress Party stands alone, and the proposal on which we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e145	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e148	The right is well pleased that the Ministry of Knowledge has now updated the legislation that has been under way for a long time. It was probably also quite necessary to update the legislation on communication, so that it will be more timely. In particular, they have also indicated that they need to clarify several aspects of their activities, both the type of business they can operate outside the purely student-oriented well-being and other aspects of their operation. We know that the operations that the interactions are doing that are not directly student-oriented are very much involved in financing other student welfare. Therefore, it is important that such operations continue to be possible for such operations. At least we are very pleased that the ministry adjusted the draft consultation on this point, so that it became more flexible and more open in order to be able to run other activities as well. Because there is no doubt that had been adopted in the consultation draft, the communication had been in a much worse position in terms of the ability to offer good and cheap student welfare to the students. There's one problem that I want to highlight, and that's that through the proposition it's put up for a very extensive use of regulation fixing quite central areas of the law. It is true that regulations are always an important addition to the law, and they should also be in this case. But especially at one of those points, there has been a lot of discussion and some controversy, namely what the definition of a ‘limited scope’ in Section 3 of the Act should actually mean. It shall be left to the department to decide by regulation. The right has been skeptical about it, and says it also in the form of a comment, simply because this is one of the themes where it is important to have as thorough and good a process as possible. It will be very difficult for many of the smaller communications to keep up to date on regulatory changes at all times. Therefore, it is important that as much as possible of what is at the heart of the legislation, and what may be controversial, are actually laid down by law and not just by regulation. Finally, I would also like to mention that the small curious situation has arisen that, as far as the connection requirement is concerned, the opposition parties are promoting what is the Government's proposal, and the government's original proposal is then voted down in the Storting by means of the government parties. That's a little bit of a special situation. But as the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn saw correctly in his statement, there is a very clear reason why the opposition parties want to promote what was the government's original proposal, which the opposition parties then seem to be actually a very good proposal from the government. So it's a shame that that proposal is being voted down and not supported by the government parties here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e161	I would like to start on SV's behalf by thanking the spokesperson for a thorough work and for a nice arrangement here in Odelstinget about the individual aspects of the case. I'm going to link some comments to some principal and central things with the law. Now it's like not all things become kiosks, and sometimes one can be happy about it. But that doesn't mean that this thing isn't important. This matter has hardly mattered any kiosk; there are other things that have taken hold of this week. But it is nevertheless a very important educational policy issue, for this matter is about the most important principle: equal rights to education. Higher education is an enormously good thing. It's an incredibly important element in a well-built society, but it's not least a great asset to individuals and to individuals' lives. For us, relationships are an important tool for achieving truly equal rights to education. Co-operation has ensured the well-being of Norwegian students over 50 years — kindergartens, housing, mental health services, doctors, dentists, etc. We who have been students know these offers very well. So that's how relationships have made it possible for a lot more people to take higher education, those who in one way or another had not been able to orient themselves in what else is in society, without having to spend more money on the table. The rounds we had in the Grand Duchy of Student Children have been a good example of – and in a way of establishing – the importance of these measures for equal rights to education. Interactions are characterised by close contact with the member institutions. They are the hallmarks that they are mainly financed by a holiday fee that everyone has to pay, a collective scheme that gives benefits to all students. The relationships are characterized by the fact that they are user-directed by students. They're like us politicians, they're chosen. They are trusted – which can be chosen and which can be thrown. In other words, interactions are not only a matter of well-being but also of democracy. SV believes that the proposal for law from the Government was good – that was good suggestions. One has to balance and ensure that interactions have sufficient room for action in order to be able to deliver good student welfare. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the activities of the interconnections are conducted within the current competition rules, and one must prevent the involvement of the parties in actions which give rise to a risk of loss, which it is called. We have received feedback that the department's treatment of the law has occurred in close and close contact with, among other things. The student organisations, and we are very pleased about that. It may seem as if there is only joy and fun in this matter. That is not the case. For us in SV, it is important to understand that the holiday fee is a collective scheme that will help to provide this good student welfare offer. When the Progress Party then proposes to make membership of the Student Association voluntary, in order to give students the opportunity not to pay the holiday fee for their interaction on grounds of conscience, it is an ideologically clear distinction. It would be like people would be able to apply for a tax exemption if they weren't happy with all the tax money went to. Then you can wonder how much tax money we would have received. The holiday fee is not a study fee. The holiday fee is a welfare fee. It's a collective arrangement, and it's important for us to be told. The spokesman for the case has done a great deal of good because the majority in Stortinget has chosen, after input from, among other things. students' organisations, to change the bill from the department when it relates to connection requirements. We have chosen to give decisive emphasis to the argument of students in particular that the most important thing for student welfare is that the offer is managed by the students themselves. We recognise the organisational model that relationships are. We put decisive emphasis on our students' best interests, and we have of course argued that those who trust around us who govern our relationships do the same. I came across a look-up in Universitas when I told myself about this debate. It's about Clemets' dismissal for the students. One is upset that in its last budget, the previous government put forward a proposal to cut support to SiO by 5 million. kr. This could be the snow as a fall last year. But as the snow that came yesterday has rained off today, this government has reversed the previous government's student policy. With this law, we also take a long step forward, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e187	It is important from the Christian People's Party that relationships continue to be allowed to be independent businesses, and that they should be managed by the students themselves. I think it is important when we are dealing with this law today, that we also have a guide to what the relationships mean, both for the individual student and for the places of study. After I joined the committee, I was quite impressed to see the great work being done, not only in the field of kindergarten and general student welfare, but also in the area of housing. But I want to stress that we have had a discussion about this with kindergartens. When we sat in the Bondevik II administration, we learned that our huge bet on kindergartens did not benefit the student kindergartens as we actually thought, so we reversed the cut and reintroduced through Storting's treatment money to the kindergartens. Then we experienced that the new government did the same round. I want, although it is a law we are now dealing with, to express concern that when we cut the student kindergarten offer, it may hit the weakest. There is something specific different from a common municipal nursery service. Now, interactions have taken the responsibility that political authorities should take, and have managed to maintain many kindergartens. But that gives me a new concern. It is that this goes beyond other welfare services that you should have had. Maybe it's mental health in particular that gets hurt. So even if it's a law we're dealing with, I want to come up with that concern right here in this case. So a little bit about the background for this. It is important that we have control over what government funds go to, and what use is made of the money that is granted through the state. But I have to admit that the draft consultation that was sent out implied a very great distrust, and that there would be far too much to strangle good action that has been carried out in a proper way by communications. We must not be so afraid of the ghost of capitalism that we suffocate measures that are sensible and that can be passed on in a good way. This is not about playing away money on the stock exchange. It is a matter of being able to offer to a limited extent the services available to students, including to others. And to the extent that you get income from this, it has to be returned to student welfare. That is, all students get the benefit of this. So until the tightening up of the government parties here in Stortinget, you're going to have a commitment now. I would have understood that, and I would have understood that as a principle round, if you had also let this have retroactive force. But from the Christian People's Party we can't see that there should be anything fundamentally different for future institutions, and that they should be treated differently from those that already exist. That is why we are in agreement with the minority and the opposition and vote in favour of the Government's proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e203	With this attitude, we can all see that it is a very broad and solid majority that is behind the very special and good tradition we have in Norway, with interactions. There is one exception, and it is the point of view of the Progress Party – on which they have their own proposal – that creates a fundamental difference in the main view of relations. But also the Progress Party is, at its premises, with regard to relationships as positive. With regard to the matter that has been put forward, I can to some extent understand the enthusiasm of the government parties to listen here to the student organisations, because that is largely not what you do. You listen, for example. not particularly well with regard to the basic appropriations for universities, which lead to cuts in the provision of education. One has not always been very listening when it comes to kindergartens, as the representative Dagrun Eriksen was about, nor in times when the nursery bet has been formidable. I notice that position, but I understand it most as a need to say it, on the basis that there are a number of areas where you don't listen. With regard to the difference of opinion of the Committee between the Government Parties on the one hand and all the opposition parties on the other, as regards access to non-cooperation, that access is precisely described in the Department's proposition. Examples are: it is far to the closest co-operation, the institution has very few students, or it has a low share of government grants. The low proportion of government grants is then further elaborated in minority observations. In other words, you have taken care of something that has also been strange, to realize that not everyone fits into a system. We in the Left believe that the reason why an institution such as communication has been so strenuous is that Norway has just had the small breathing holes for those who are not to be in the system, is that they have simply respected that opening. That's what the Department has done, and it's also been with the Left to do, together with the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, and we're on it. We don't see it as a wide open door. I have the same point of view as the representative Dagrun Eriksen, who says, "Why in the world should we look at something that might come after 2008, in any way other than what we've done now?" What we've done now is positive, and the government has actually done something in the submitted to the Storting that's positive. It has been ensured that interactions that are good and capable of obtaining income base to ensure well-being for students are ensured by the law given to them. It is a procession and strengthening of the position of communication that has been done in this job, and it is listening to those who depend on it every day. The left believes, for its part, that the fight around the interconnections and sustainability they want will be linked to the struggle for study funding and funding of basic higher education in Norway, and it will be linked to areas such as housing and kindergartens. In the case of housing — to be in the spirit that one can also be positive when something is positive — the limits of money have been raised in order to accept construction, and in practice to give the retroactive effect to those who did not want to. So there's a lot of areas where you stand together, and there's no reason to hide. Once again, in the end: at least, as far as the list of students is concerned, I would have been very careful if I represented the government parties – especially in these days, when there is one meeting after another about what is not happening in the provision of education, for example. at the University of Oslo. There's a lot of students who don't feel listened to in any way. They feel the opposite way overrun. But the debate on that later we get in other things here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e218	The student relations system has proved to be a good arrangement for organising student welfare at our universities and colleges. With the proposal for a new law on student relations, the Government will contribute to strengthening the scheme, and I am pleased that an overall committee supports the overall views expressed by the speakers. Thus, the government wants to continue the scheme, while there was a need to update the rules on student relations in some areas. With a new law, the Ministry and the Government want to provide a clearer framework for the activities of student relations, and a new legal provision is proposed which states that student relations are responsible for addressing the student welfare needs of individual schools, and that interaction is to offer its services to students, but that interaction can also offer services to other than students to a limited extent. So there's been an attempt to balance what's really related to student welfare, and what's gradually been a little different practice for what's been done through relationships. As others have noted, the Student Cooperation Scheme is a special scheme for Norway. It gives students a decisive influence over their own student welfare, while also imposing a responsibility on educational institutions to ensure student welfare. Therefore, interconnections and educational institutions need to cooperate. Although this cooperation may be challenging at times, the Student Cooperation Scheme facilitates the establishment of good actions and services to support the student’s educational environment. In this way, institutions and students share common interests in the best possible organisation and functioning of student welfare. This new law underpins and underscores precisely what is to be the main task of interaction, and therefore depends on the good functioning of cooperation between the two institutions, which I hope is positive for all parties. The provisions on the nature of the activity of student relationships have been proposed in the proposal for a new law. In addition, rules are proposed on a distinction between student co-operation activities for students and for others. There has been a clear need to provide clearer rules in these areas, both in terms of developments in the scope of student cooperation services and in terms of competition and State aid principles that we need to comply with. It is proposed that detailed rules in these areas be laid down in the Regulation and that the representative Eriksen Soreide should be covered by regulations. It's said that maybe you should set rules in law rather than regulations. I have a comment on that. It is that, in my opinion, the most important frameworks are now laid down in the law, and that it may be appropriate in many ways to lay down the supplementary legislation in the regulation. The Ministry has an important role to play in determining this. Having something in a regulatory context can lead to a slightly greater dynamism in the overall regulatory framework, because it is possible to make regulatory changes faster than legislative changes if different circumstances need to be clarified if they change. However, I would like to point out that the drafts that are coming will, of course, be sent to the hearing to ensure that student relations, students and other stakeholders are widely involved. Of course, we're going to take into account the recordings that come in such a hearing. The majority of the Committee considers it important to ensure that all students have access to the offers made by their student contacts and has proposed to remove the possibility of exemption from student cooperation requirements. I believe that this must be seen as a clear expression of support for the cooperation system as such, and that is therefore in line with the Government's desire to strengthen the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e238	The Progress Party promotes an alternative proposal that will allow individual students to alert if the interaction is not conducted in accordance with the law, while at the same time giving the student the opportunity to retain the right to an examination. We know about relationships that have actively encouraged boycott of Israel, and some students have had problems with such a position. We can also imagine interactions that give full support to Norwegian presence in Afghanistan, and that some students may have problems with it, well know the Council of State from their own ranks. If the proposals of the Progress Party are not adopted, how does the Council of State consider that the students can proceed in order to distance themselves from the decisions of the Cooperation Council and, at the same time, retain the right to an examination?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e245	I have great confidence that democracy will also work when it comes to managing relations. It is based on the election of its rule, and as in all democratic assemblies, it is possible to cast a government that you do not want to continue. There is – as some of the representatives of the majority here have been – a link between having a democratic system and facilitating the equal rights of education for all. So here I want to have confidence that the democratic side of the governance is working as it should.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e250	First, I have to be allowed to say that I am happy to hear that the Council of State is going to take all interested parties carefully on advice in the preparation of regulations. I think that's important, because my point is still really solid, in the sense that I believe that in the kind of controversial issues that are contained in the legal text that are to be enshrined, you have to have an equally thorough and good process as in relation to legislation, just to make sure that everyone is involved, and that everyone gets everything that happens from rapid regulatory changes. My question concerns § 4 of the Act. As the Council of State says, it is to remove access to exemption in accordance with the coordination system and its spirit. I assume that the government's original proposal is also. My question is about how the Council of State looks at the tightening up that is now taking place by means of the government parties, a tightening that is therefore against the Government's original proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e257	First of all, as far as regulations are concerned, there's always a balance between the work of law and regulation, but as I said in my article, it's an advantage to be able to be something more dynamic by changing regulations, so you don't have to change the law when new situations arise. With regard to the majority's proposal, which is then going to have a majority in the law's decision, I again stress that I believe that it is in that spirit that, in my opinion, cooperation should also be in. I recognise very clearly that this is a political disagreement in Stortinget – in Odelstinget, which we are now in – between the opposition parties and the government parties. It is often that political disagreement is an important part of our democratic development, and of course one must accept that. Here's the majority's opinion that's crossed through.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e264	I was a little surprised by the Council of State's reply to the representative, Gåsvatn. The situation that Gåsvatn referred to was a situation in which democracy actually went beyond what was the law's framework, where relationships did not drive student welfare, but political agitation. Then I thought it was strange that the Council of State concluded that she had confidence in democracy. In a democracy, there are also minority rights. In this context, a few serious difficulties of conscience may arise if, for example: a student association decides that it wishes to support Norwegian participation in Afghanistan or boycott of Israeli goods. There are students who will react strongly to this, and today they have no opportunity to reserve themselves against supporting that kind of political agitation through student relations without losing the right to an examination. It is a rather dramatic instrument. I would like to challenge the Council of State directly again: how does the Council of State think that students who come into such difficult situations of conscience because democracy and relations go beyond the framework of the law should move forward in order to be able to reserve themselves against this kind of activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e273	I expect that the interactions, especially after this tightening up in the law, concentrate their business on what is directly related to student welfare. But I want to repeat what I said to a previous line, that there is a democratic assessment behind the governance of the relationships. And then the only right way to do it, if you disagree with the decisions of the current board, is to choose another board on the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e278	I will follow up the exchange of lines between the Council of State and the representative of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide. There's no disagreement in the main hall. There is disagreement about the Government's proposals. We are in the situation that the Government's proposal for a particular paragraph supports the opposition, while the government parties are opposed. It cannot be described in any other way. Of course, the Council of State can take note of this defeat, she can even take note of it with pleasure, or take note of it in another way. It is not possible to describe the situation as any other than that the Storting knows the Government's proposal, unless the Government had for some reason changed the proposal, given it an addendum or drawn it. The government has not. That is why it is the Government's proposal that exists. Should it be then, in order to ask the question in that way, that this is a defeat that the Council of State takes with it, but that it is actually the opposition's vote for the proposal of the government of which the Council of State is a member?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e287	I'd rather say it so that there's a change that the council thinks is better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e293	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 62 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e311	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e320	It is on behalf of the entire committee I present today this setting of changes to the training law related to training in child protection institutions. I would like to explain, as the rapporteur-in-Office, the nuances that exist, and it is agreed – in order to save Storting's time, and not out of interest – that other representatives will not take the floor in this matter. The Committee as a whole considers this to be an important matter that is now being followed up. This is a follow-up on the basis of a majority comment on the municipal proposition, where, among other things: is: ‘The majority believe that a permanent scheme should be implemented as quickly as possible and starting from the financial year 2008.’» The entire Committee considers it important that one body should be fully responsible for the training of pupils at child protection institutions. This is important to ensure that children and young people in institutions receive the training they require from the day they arrive at the institution. We therefore agree with the Department that today's system continues. This implies that the system of professional, legal and financial responsibility for the training of residents of the institution lies with the county municipality of a child protection institution. The Ministry also proposes to legislate for reimbursement of training expenditure for pupils from other counties, at the rates laid down by the Ministry. The Committee considers that this could contribute to a fairer distribution of costs between county municipalities. At the same time, we would stress that it is a prerequisite that the institutional state initiates training as soon as a student moves into an institution in the county, and that the institutional state may subsequently require reimbursement from the county of residence. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Government has come back with a proposal for a permanent scheme to organise the financing of training in child protection institutions. We agree that, as a permanent solution – which, however, must be seen in the light of any changes in the administrative structure – the current system maintains that the county council where the Child Welfare Institute is located has just that responsibility. This also applies to students from other counties, while at the same time a right to reimbursement for training expenses is provided for. I said that I should also explain a little about the shades in the setting. The party of progress has a special note where they refer to Innst. O. No 51 for 2005-2006, where they have made the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for changes to the Training Act which ensure the funding of State-funded unit prices for training in social or medical institutions, as well as in child protection institutions, etc. The rules shall apply equally to private and public institutions.’;» The Progress Party considers that the Government’s proposal is a form of price financing and therefore sees this proposal as a step in the right direction, even if the scheme is a financing mechanism to operate between county councils and not as a State financing mechanism. Finally, residents of other institutions also need training. For this reason, the Committee considers that other educational services related to different institutions, such as the United Kingdom, should also be provided. drug establishments should be subject to a type of new scheme. We have noticed in a letter from the Minister of Knowledge dated 15 November 2007 that the necessary legislative change in § 13-3a has not yet been sent to the hearing, as it says in the proposition. The Committee would stress that we are addressing a solution for other institutions, including: the institutions of the Russian Federation, to this effect. There is, in the Committee's view, a strong need for this to be done in the same way for other types of users of other institutions. With this I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e352	From 1 January 2007, the training responsibility for children and young people in child-rescues institutions was combined in the institutional community. The responsibilities of the institution's county include children and young people from other counties. The aim of this legislative change was to clean up some of the unbridled legislation and to help train them quickly after they moved into the institution. However, it turned out that the conversion of responsibility gave some county councils an unreasonable extra cost, because some counties have a relatively high number of places in relation to the population, and because some counties have relatively higher costs of training in child protection institutions than other counties. The purpose of the draft law promoted in Ot.prp. No 2, ensuring the best possible provision of training for children and young people in child protection institutions and at the same time contributing to a fair distribution of the financial costs of students receiving training in child protection institutions outside their own home country. The legislative proposal is a follow-up to the majority comment in the vote on the municipality’s proposal for 2008, which includes: read: ‘The majority believe that a permanent scheme should be implemented as quickly as possible and starting from the financial year 2008.’» As a permanent solution, the Ministry proposes to maintain the current system for the professional, legal and financial responsibility of the county of the Children's Protection Institution for the training, but to legislate on the right to reimbursement of expenses for the training of pupils from other counties, at the rates laid down by the Ministry. Reimbursement rights at rates will contribute to a fairer distribution of costs, which in turn should help to ensure that children and young people in institutions receive the training they are entitled to under the training law without undue delay. The proposal for a regulation with reimbursement rates was sent at the hearing in December. We regret the fact that in the case of an incubation it is stated in the proposition that a proposal for a financing solution has been put forward at the hearing also for other institutions, such as drug institutions, on which the representative Dagrun Eriksen was involved. In a letter dated 15 November, the Minister of Knowledge made the Stortinget aware that such a proposal was not sent to the hearing in October. The reason for this is that there is still some work to be done on finding a good enough funding scheme for the type of institutions of which the drug institutions are also part. I can assure you that this will be done as thoroughly as possible before you send it to the hearing, so that you have a solid basis for improving this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e368	It's going to be line change. Jan Jäger Gåsvatn is the first replicator. I'm sorry, Jon Hunter Gåsvatn. It's not always going in as easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e376	Dear child has many names.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e381	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e384	This case concerns who is to pay the cost of a service offer given in an institution. We see that the county councils are divided into views of this. Some believe that it is the county that has the training responsibility to pay, while others believe that it is the municipality of the home state of the student who has to pay. The counties are getting their framework transfers from the state. My question is short and straightforward: does the Council see that the whole issue could be solved if the state had refunded the institution directly, through a state price?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e391	I have noticed the contribution and comment of the Advance Party in this matter. I also know that the Progress Party is concerned about this way of thinking about structure. However, we consider this right to reimbursement between county councils as a form of guest student settlement. Then you can have a philosophical discussion about the difference. But we think it's the right way to do this – that you don't initially have a prank, but that you have a responsibility allocated as suggested between the county councils, and that you have a guest student settlement in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e396	My question to the Council of State goes to that part of the committee setting that is about drug institutions. It has been the Committee's view that in drug services, such as in children's protection institutions, such as in prison, education is a good offer. We are now in the process of getting a situation where this offer is confusing, because health companies are sending out calls for tenders where schools are not included, and the rules governing county councils and others are not ready. So we risk that a very vulnerable group can end up in the situation that it loses some of the most important things to build footholds and have a chance in life, namely education. I just want to make sure that the Council of State is aware of this, so that you don't get into a system squeeze between different departments and different state councils, and that people who have drug addiction actually get the school offer they require. To put it another way: I hope the Council of State can now confirm that she believes that school is important also in drug institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e405	I would like to confirm to both the representative of Dørum and others that an education offer is unusually important, perhaps especially for those groups of young people who are in such institutions. I would like to remind you that in the context of the State budget, we have ensured a better education for those in prison, without necessarily comparing these groups. But I'm very concerned about this, and I just have to assure everyone that my commitment to it is strong. We have a big obligation to give students, that is. children and young people, in such institutions, the training they require.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e411	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 65]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e429	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Progress Party 20 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left 10 minutes and the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies following the intervention of the Minister of Finance and the main speakers for each party group and up to three lines with replies from other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e438	Tax policy may be the policy area where the differences between parties are more evident. Tax levels, scale and distribution are important both for individuals and for society. The level of taxation has an impact on the level of well-being of a society. What types of taxes you have and how they are designed have much to say about how the distribution policy is going to be. The government parties have more tax policy objectives. The tax system shall provide for stable revenues and ensure fair distribution. It shall stimulate work and ensure employment. And taxes should be designed in such a way that business has stable and predictable framework conditions. Therefore, it is an advantage for Norway that, at regular intervals, we have wide-ranging tax settlements when making system changes. The level of taxation, on the other hand, is more disunity. Government parties opted to reverse the level of taxation to 2004 levels. The tax ceiling has been met by the 2006 and 2007 budgets. The increase in the level of taxation means that only in the 2008 budget does the Government have DKK 13 billion more available for welfare schemes and common resources, compared to the level of taxation proposed by the Bondevik II Government for 2006. Under the tax promise, the Government has stressed that the tax system should be fair and redistributive and that fees should be used to stimulate environmentally friendly behaviour. We remove the stock discount from the property tax and increase the wealth tax for those with high taxable wealth and low general income. The equivalency of housing is adjusted by 10 p.m., while the asset tax base is greatly increased, so that more persons with small assets are exempted from this tax. The discount is increasing from NOK 151 000 in 2005 to NOK 350 000 in 2008. For married couples, who have received each of their deductions since 2006, the total deduction is NOK 700000. I suppose that is well received by the bourgeois parties, despite the fact that they express resistance to the wealth tax – but not enough resistance to it being removed by the Bondevik government. Nearly 400,000 fewer people pay taxes on wealth now compared to when the bourgeois government crashed. Half of these are pensioners. On the tax side, there are three areas in which the majority of the Finance Committee notes the Government's proposals. One is the proposal for a new power plant tax. The NVE has estimated the potential for the expansion of small-scale power plants and the upgrading of existing plants to nearly 40 TWh. It's about one third of the capacity that's already expanded. Both the current power balance and environmental considerations indicate that it is important that this potential is exploited. Under the rules in force, power plants of 5500 kVA and over pay rent taxes. This limit was raised from 1500 kVA as of the financial year 2004. In retrospect, the raising of the border has led to adaptations by building power stations with lower capacity than is socially desirable. This problem does not disappear when the limit is lowered to 1500 kVA, but the consequences in terms of lower power generation than is optimal are likely to be less than the current limit. We believe that rent tax is essentially a wise tax. A hydropower plant shall pay ground interest only on that part of the surplus which is particularly high. In other words, if the power plant is running at a loss or has a normal return, no rent tax shall be paid. In theory, you could imagine that the rate of the rent tax was set at 100 pst. Nevertheless, this tax would not stem from the fact that a project that is profitable before tax would also be profitable after tax. So the investment would pay off in such an extreme case. The petroleum sector has a basic interest tax of 50 pst. We're going in to increase the rate of interest rate on electricity from 27 pst. to 30 pst. This means that a slightly higher proportion of the land interest income will be due to the country, without affecting the investments. The other parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, also support the proposal to increase the rate. The right even believes that the rate should be raised to 33.5 pst. In addition, we are making some adjustments to improve the tax system for power plants. Government parties believe, as I said, that it is very important to stimulate the development and production of environmentally friendly energy. We therefore ask the Government to provide a broad assessment of the incentives for increasing eco-friendly hydropower and other renewable energy in the revised 2008 national budget. I am pleased to see that this policy is wholeheartedly supported by the Right and the Left. The discount now adopts a new shipping tax regime, which aims at providing a definitive exemption from the tax on profits from shipping activities. This industry has asked for years to ensure the same framework conditions in Norway as in the rest of Europe. At the same time, one third of the tax liabilities accumulated in the current company tax scheme shall be dissolved and repaid over a period of 10 years. The remaining third of the tax liability shall be set aside in funds for environmental measures. The political justification for this is twofold. It is about the consideration of an active industrial policy on the one hand and the consideration of fair distribution on the other. The maritime industry has long traditions, and is one of our major and important industries in Coast Norway. If this industry is to maintain its strong position internationally, it must have good and predictable framework conditions. Since 1996, the industry's framework conditions, under various minority formations, have continued to be the subject of debate. It is worth noting that a unanimous increase is in line with the proposal for a new company tax scheme. A clear prerequisite for the comprehensive solution presented is that the Government will work towards the EU's low tax policy in this area. For the tax system to have legitimacy, it is important that it be perceived as fair, in the sense that there is a clear relationship between taxation and taxability. At the same time, the design should be as neutral as possible in nutrition. Consideration of employment and competitive framework conditions are also important elements. These considerations need to be weighed against each other. The new shipping tax scheme, with tax exemptions for a particular industry in the country, cannot be said to provide for distributional considerations in a good way. The shipping industry has high profits, and many of the country's large private assets come from this industry. But business policy considerations have weighed heavily in view of a future system. There would be a danger that a solution to freeze or give up the entire amount of tax credits that were contained in the tax credits would weaken the legitimacy of the tax system – this being because of the concomitant tax exemption for future revenues. In examining this case in Stortinget, the question of the relationship with the Constitutional Act § 97 has been central. It is the transformation of latent tax liabilities into past tax liabilities that raise the issue of return. The assessment is to a large extent a question of balancing the needs of taxpayers for predictability and the freedom of action of the Grand Duchy under the Constitution § 75a. The key assessment theme is as follows: does the proposal have a clearly unfair or unfair effect? In the opinion of the Financial Committee, this issue is discussed in depth. In the assessment, the majority of the population has assumed that the protection of fundamental law is weaker in the winding-up of tax-exempt schemes, as is the case in this case, than in the case of old, definitive tax exemptions. The time aspect of the case has been a central moment. However, this cannot be considered in isolation but must be seen in conjunction with the other features of the intervention. There is an important element in this context that the tax liability is linked to current values in companies. The question of whether the change came suddenly and surprisingly on the taxpayers is also important. The majority of large companies indicate that the current company tax system was adopted in 1996. Since then, there has been constant unrest around the scheme – not least the industry itself has been pressing for a change. Of particular interest in this context is the change made in 2005 which meant that so-called rigging companies could no longer be similar within the shipping tax system. Transitional rules were proposed which in practice resulted in an annual revenue flow of 14 pst. the gain on withdrawal. The proposal was endorsed by all parties on the Stortinget except the Advance Party. No one, nor the Shipowners' Association, raised questions about this transitional arrangement when it was illegal. The majority of the population has also looked closely at the impact on the taxpayers concerned. A large part of the total latent tax liability is concentrated on a smaller number of large companies. The vast majority of these companies are solid and have had high earnings. But of course, the consequences of the change for different companies might be slightly different. We are aware that it is not excluded that individual companies may be particularly disadvantaged, including few payment problems or at the extreme risk of bankruptcy. However, this could not be the result of the transitional regime alone, but would be related to other arrangements or events relating to the company in question. In the light of a thorough review, the bulk of the population believes that the proposal provides a balanced solution. The proposal sufficiently respects both the citizens' requirements for protection under the Constitution § 97 and the freedom of action of the Stortingen to provide new tax laws. The majority of cases conclude that the proposal for a transitional arrangement cannot be considered to be clearly unfair or unfair. It shows that the opposition parties disagree with the majority’s conclusion. I have a few comments on their position. First, I am amazed that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left so little goes into a discussion of the Constitutional Question, but only chooses to reject the conclusion, and then to ask the Government to find a new solution. For me, it is to disclaim the responsibilities that you have, namely to seriously assess on an independent basis whether this is contrary to the Constitution. Secondly, it's interesting that the same parties choose to use the money in their alternate budgets. It underpins the majority’s view, namely that the Government’s proposal does not conflict with the Constitution. So at tax on the residence of a servant abroad. According to long-term practice, government employees have not taxed on the benefit of free housing at a place of employment abroad. However, the Supreme Court stated in its judgment of 27 February this year that employees of private companies must be treated in the same way as public employees in this respect. Since both public and private employees today have to pay taxes on the benefit of free housing in Norway, the Government proposes full equal treatment for all those who have free housing, regardless of whether they move domestically or abroad. The Government therefore proposes that the non-statutory tax exemption for the benefit of free housing by public employees abroad be abolished, with effect from the income year 2008. The government parties at Stortinget agree with this proposal. We believe that it is a central tax policy principle that all labour income is taxed equally, regardless of whether the benefit is in the form of money or in kind. We assume, as indicated in the proposal, that the Ministry of Finance will lay down protective arrangements for workers who have to live in areas with a particularly high rental level and that no distribution tax will be fixed for accommodation in the field or other simple accommodation that does not have the character of an owner-occupied dwelling. The background to this proposal has not been a desire to tax a particular group harder, but follows as a consequence of the Supreme Court judgment. In order to prevent the unintended impact of a group of taxpayers coming out worse than today, we ask the Government to return to the Stortinget, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2008, with proposals for budgetary compensation for those significantly affected by the change in the public sector. The new scheme will be phased in by 2010. The tax changes shall apply only to those who move or change their place of employment abroad, not to those who stay where they are already. The question of how to design the tax system brings forward important policy lines. Common to the vast majority of people in this country, both politicians and others, is certainly a deep recognition that taxes are necessary in order for us to function as a society. Many will therefore be able to sign Sissel Benneche Osvold's words: I pay my taxes with some kind of pleasure assumed. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is an error in the setting under M § 11-1 paragraph. 1 second sentence. In the fourth line, it shall read ‘§§10-40 to 10-48’ and not ‘§§40 to 10-48’. So there's a tens left out, and it's going to have to go into the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e514	The corrections made by the rapporteur are noted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e519	The Progress Party has repeatedly demonstrated that our tax reliefs primarily benefit them with lower and medium incomes. This is because we increase the minimum deduction and the personal deduction. Furthermore, we reduce a number of charges, which help those who make the least money, who live on pensions. Despite this, the Labour Party continues to claim that the Progress Party provides the greatest tax relief to the rich, most recently the representative Sandal during the financial debate on Tuesday. My question to the representative of Aasen Agdestein is therefore: why does the Workers' Party do this, and what does the representative of Aasen Agdestein think that the Progress Party should possibly have to serve to promote the interests of the richest in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e526	It is possible that it goes a little bit around for me, because I didn't quite understand what you meant by 'this'. What does the Progress Party have to earn from it? No, you have to ask the Advance Party about that. But when we look at the distribution tables, there's no doubt that with the tax relief you add, it's the richest that gets the greatest relief. It seems logical to me that if you have high incomes and you do them the way you have, and you give them, for example. capital tax relief, it is they with wealth, i.e. the richest in the country, who receive the greatest relief, and not those who have low or no income. That's my answer to you.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e531	The President will stress that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e534	The government has asked the Stortinget to make an independent and thorough assessment of the proposed transitional rules for shipping companies in relation to the Basic Law § 97. That is why the Financial Committee organised its own hearing with former Supreme Court judge Gunnar Aasland, Professor Frederik Zimmer and Professor Eivind Smith. All three called in were in doubt, and some in deep doubt, about the Government's proposal was in line with the Constitutional Law's requirements in Section 97. Former Supreme Court judge Gunnar Aasland, for example, stated that: that he had several doubts as to whether the proposed transitional regime was allowed to defend itself in relation to the Constitutional Act § 97. My question to the representative of Aasen Agdestein is: What was the outcome of the hearing that suggests that the majority parties are so far to the degrees obscurant that the proposal is in line with the Constitution § 97?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e541	The majority of the majority of the population and the majority of the financial committee have been thoroughly involved in the constitutional issue, and we have used many sources, including, of course, Ot.prp. No 1st@item: We have read the letter from the Department of Justice, we have read all the answers to the questions sent to the Ministry of Finance by the Storing Groups, we have used the hearings held by the Federation of Shipowners, and, of course, the Financial Committee's consultation with these lawyers. In addition, we have read legal reports drawn up on behalf of the Swedish Shipowners' Association. In sum, after an overall assessment, we believe that the proposal does not conflict with the Constitution. As I interpreted those who were present at that hearing in the Financial Committee, they did not come to a clear, clear conclusion either on the one hand or on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e546	At the beginning of his speech, Marianne Aasen Agdestein was involved in one of the aims of a good tax system, among other things. that it should ensure a distribution. This government has also had the aim of eliminating poverty — at least poverty — even though it may be a bit of a missed target in recent months. But at least in the past it has been important for the red-green parties to make sure that the inequalities in society are less and not larger. I guess if you look at the inequalities, they might be bigger than ever. So I want to ask Aasen Agdestein a slightly more general question: if she were to provide less inequality, among other things. through the tax system, what changes to the tax system or rates would she bet on?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e551	I am pleased that the representative addresses this issue, which is very important, and which is all about: the distribution of income in society. I will demand that we have cancelled the fight against poverty. The government is still working on this, and it is still working on the bulk of the population. And then I'm going to refer to the attitude, where we've done quite radical steps in terms of distribution, and where we're dealing with the very, very richest group, that is, those who move from both the poorest people in this country and everyone else who has income in this country, in terms of the internal text differences. For that group, we make a change called the 80 pst rule, which means that they have to pay significantly more taxes per. individual. We're removing the stock discount, which is also going to give us the exact same results, and we're increasing the bottom of the asset tax. All those measures will have a smoothing effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e561	Yes, they might be equalising, as the rapporteur says, but is it in line with the tax reform that the previous government received in the previous period, in which the Workers' Party was also involved, and which clearly in its arrangement contributes to healthier investments in enterprises rather than profits for its own consumption? I think it's a line that should be continued. I have actually believed that the very basic attitude of such tax thinking is consistent with the views of the Workers' Party, namely the accuracy and saving over consumption and spread of local ownership rather than large ownership without the possibility of transparency. Today, the Left presents a number of proposals that underpin a continued tax policy of this kind. But unfortunately, as I read today's setting, the government parties go in the opposite direction. And then my simple question to the case rapporteur from the Workers' Party: What is it in the regime of the government parties in today's position that stimulates saving and investing in Norwegian companies rather than increasing consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e570	We have an overall approach to fiscal policy. As I said at the beginning of my post, you have to balance business considerations, so that you can create values, and allocation reasons, so that you take up the question that the previous representative raised. I believe that the timing in sum – that is, shipping taxes, energy taxes and all the other proposals in the vote that we are going to vote for – keeps the balance that one has to have in relation to both business needs and allocation considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e575	On April 20, 2002, Jens Stoltenberg had a chronicle in Today's Business, where he wrote the following: ‘Norwegian companies pay zero tax on profits. This is an advantage for the Norwegian shipping industry, and many jobs. But it is also a significant advantage for the owners, who of course also benefit from the fact that the companies they own do not pay taxes." Today, the case-speaker uses the phrase ‘processed tax liabilities’. The Ministry has used redeployment as ‘tax credits’ in the proposition. Then my question to the representative Aasen Agdestein is: Does she think that current Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg was wrong when he stated that «the companies are not paying taxes»? [[...]] And what is the reason why a person now uses the notion of ‘processed tax liabilities’?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e585	The shipping companies did not pay taxes in 2002, the year Jens Stoltenberg wrote the chronicle. Those in this scheme did not pay taxes, either, on the basis of the decisions taken in 1996. But it was never suggested that the arrangement should last forever. It also shows the investigations that have been carried out in the meantime, it shows the debate from 1996 until now, and it shows the sample that worked under the previous government with what might be done in relation to a new policy towards the maritime sector, where, among others, the majority. proposed much stricter rules for the withdrawal of these tax credits. That means that throughout this period there has been a debate about this. It is true that no tax was paid in 2002 and 2003. But this scheme, together with the new tax-free regime, will be a good solution for the industry, which will ensure predictable framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e592	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e595	The Progress Party wants lower taxes and a simpler and more prudent tax system than what we have today. That's what we've been aiming at with the setting to be dealt with today. Norway is a small country in the world. We have high compensation of employees, and we have long distances. Therefore, it is decisive that framework conditions such as taxes and taxes are at least as good in Norway as in our competitors. That is not the case today. That's why we've suggested a number of improvements in our alternative arrangement. Among other things, we have proposed removing the curtailment rules for pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age. Today, the rule is that pensioners over the age of 67 can only pay 130 000 kroner before the pension is reduced. In the case of revenue above that, the effective tax will be up to 85 pst. including curtailment. Of course, such a tax rate does not provide a good incentive to work a little more. We are pleased that the government is going in to remove the ceiling on how much the individual pensioner can spend between 67 and 68 years before the pension is reduced. But we're amazed and disappointed that the government doesn't want to remove the abbreviation for pensioners between 68 and 70 years. Removing the curtailment rules for these too, as a collective opposition goes in for, would open up the possibility that more pensioners would work more, which would give more value creation and more tax revenue to the state. We are also going in to increase the exemption limit for duty from NOK 2000 to NOK 15 000. An increase in this limit will result in work currently falling within the definition of ‘black work’ being legal and will, to a large extent, also make taxable ‘friendliness’ and so on. legal duty-free. The party of progress is also moving towards the proposed increase in the taxation of free housing abroad for the public to be added. We are some in that today's discrimination against public and private additions of course cannot continue, but unlike the Government, which has the main focus on increasing tax and tax pressures, we propose a corresponding system of private add-ons on service missions abroad, so that these too do not tax free housing. The propulsion party is occupied by the mariner and fisherman deduction. This deduction, except for an increase of SEK 70000 to DKK 80000 in 2002, has remained unchanged for very many years. Only a wage adjustment of the deduction would mean more than a double of this deduction. The adjustment of this deduction is necessary in order to ensure good framework conditions, and we therefore propose to increase the deduction to NOK 160 000. Good depreciation rates are also important for Norwegian companies to be able to compete in international competition. According to the current rules, the balance of the means of operation of the balancing group d, machines etc. may be depreciated by up to 20 pst. This is lower than in most other countries and may include, for example: influence the location decisions of the establishments. Therefore, the Party of Progress proposes to increase the depreciation rate for balancing group d to 25 pst. Competitive framework conditions are important for all industries, but are particularly important for those industries that are mobile and can therefore move out of the country, for example. shipping may. ‘It is both important and right to invest specifically in industries where Norway is already good.’ This could be my words and the Progress Party, but the man behind this quote is Minister of Economic Affairs Dag Terje Andersen. At the inception of the Government's maritime strategy, the Council of State is offensive. He also promises: ‘We’re going to bet on areas where we’re leading internationally or have prerequisites to be. The maritime industries constitute such an area.» In politics, there are many words. Fine goals and clear promises should therefore always be checked up against practical policies, and the question is, how does the Government invest in the maritime industry, as it itself points out in the world summit? The government is investing in the maritime industry by providing Norwegian shipping with equivalent tax conditions compared to competing fleets in Europe. That's good, of course. It's also good that the maritime strategy contains 100 million. kr for good purpose. But when one at the same time changes the tax rules for fleets with an effect of eleven years back in time and ingested 14 billion kroner from the company's equity – yes, there is no investment at all. The ability of Norwegian shipping to invest will be reduced by SEK 70 billion as a result of the votes of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV today that have been notified to them by party traps in the Government. The consequence is that the fleet industry is set back many years in time. This is, of course, sad and very serious for many district municipalities that depend on jobs and income from the fleet, yard and other supplier industries. When the fleet industry is now strongly reduced, the task is reduced to industry and thus reduced income to society in the form of taxes and charges. It is therefore a great paradox that the Government itself has marketed the changes in the taxation of fleets as a distribution policy says. This can only be said by a government that has a very short-term perspective on its policy project. The government party itself writes in the setting that the tax change will result in a reduction in the investment capacity of the fleet, a breach of loan terms and conditions, and that some companies may go bankrupt. But it's obvious that this doesn't make any sense. Clearly, it does not matter to the government party that reiarlaga now has to reduce its orders at Norwegian industrial companies. This is how only politicians who are missing a basic recognition that one must create before one can share. It's obvious that it doesn't make any impression on the plural either that Professor Fredrik Zimmer, Professor Eivind Smith and former Supreme Court judges Gunnar Aasland have been at the head of a collusive feedback from independent law experts – their warning to the Stortinget is clear. The government's proposal to change the taxation of fleets would hardly stand if it were tried against the Constitutional Act § 97, which prohibits retroactive legislation, and therefore the Stortingen appeals against the proposal. The total lack of willingness by the Government to pursue an active enterprise policy is, of course, bad. The fact that the government party conducts a policy that they themselves recognize will damage an industry that currently employs around 100,000 people is shocking. But that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV also vote in favour of a bill that they know is questionable in relation to the Constitutional Law requirements, is directly alarming. That a plural government can develop arrogance is well known. But it's going to develop so that the central principle of law in our constitution is set aside is dramatic. The government party today wins the first battle over the transitional rules, but there's reason to believe that there will be another blow, and whoever wins the final says in this case, it's only future that can give answers. Multiplicity of the Storting Today The Basic Law aside, and it cannot go unnoticed. Also abroad there are strong reactions to the government's procedure in this matter. Both the Financial Times and other important economic journals have highlighted this issue, with the consequences it may have in relation to the willingness of foreigners to invest in Norway. Finally, I would like to make the suggestions in the setting that the Progress Party is behind either alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e646	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e651	Soon a year and a half ago, the light went up too many. Yes, some of us had seen the light a long time ago and talked about the environment for ten years. Fortunately, however, the environmental issue and the climate challenges exploded in Norway and the rest of the world, and after the Workers' Party and the Government made a very comprehensive approach, the Progress Party's mantra in this matter has been that they are close to us in the Workers' Party in climate and environmental policy. We have now debated, important instruments in place in the form of more green taxes and taxes, and we propose, among other things. a fairly large increase in both diesel taxes, in the land tax on fuel oil and other so-called green taxes. The question of the Progress Party and Gjermund Hagesetter is therefore: If the Progress Party agrees with the Labour Party and therefore also the Government in the climate issue, what is the reason why there is no consistent involvement in these things? Instead, do you mean saving the environment and climate with cheaper cars and better roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e658	The progress party is aware that we are not going to have any strange fees in Norway. If we are to have environmental taxes, there must be international taxes, so that Norwegian businesses and Norwegian consumers are not affected in particular. Now we are in the middle of the world when there are very many taxes, also known as environmental taxes. We think that's unfortunate, and it won't make any sense. Norwegian workers won't pay attention to it, and the environment won't pay attention to it either. I could be tempted to return the question: if one is busy with renewable energy, why does the taxation of small power plants, water power plants, which is a very environmentally friendly form of energy production?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e663	One of the steps to which we in the majority invite in this position is to encourage workers to organise themselves by making an increasingly large part of the union quota deductible. We view strong trade unions as important in a good society, also as co-players of the business that you talked about in your article. The party of progress wants to be a party for most people, but it doesn't agree with this. My question is therefore: What are the measures of the Progress Party to build strong trade unions for the most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e668	We're busy with the work force and well in Norway. But that doesn't mean we mean that strong unions are the only answer to strengthen their dishes. We believe, on the contrary, that in many cases business data can give employees as good opportunities as they do with strong trade unions. When it comes to the union quota, it's a system that gives very little tax relief to the individual. It's a bureaucratic system that creates more work for the employees. It is a system that creates more work for tax offices and also creates more work for trade unions. That's why we don't support that increase. We go in the opposite direction to wind up the scheme, and instead we give general tax credits that benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e674	It's okay once again to present the party's trust in corporate settlement. It is the prescription to weaken the interests of employees in relation to the fair requirements they have, in the same way as it is the view of the Progress Party that one should do the same in relation to the raw material suppliers meeting a monopolistic counterparty. My question is related to the representative of Hagesetter who said about business tax conditions. It is only part of the whole – society’s ability to stimulate quality labour, good working environment, decent conditions, clean soil and air as a trademark of Norwegian products. Why does the Progress Party not want to place more emphasis on further developing these national advantages as a mark for our business life, something like anyone who comes to visit us, looks towards and wants to go in the direction of?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e681	We have many good qualities in Norway, and of course it is important to develop different framework conditions than taxes and charges in a positive direction. There is, of course, a level of knowledge, and there are a lot of other things involved. The point is that we have a very high pay level in Norway, and of course we should be proud of that. We have long distances in Norway, and then it simply doesn't seem like we're going to be on top of those things when it comes to taxes and taxes. That is why we need to reduce taxes and taxes, so that we can develop businesses. This is particularly true in the future, as in a few decades we may be forced to do more and more without the oil and gas industry. Then it is important that we provide other industries, and tax reliefs are very important to build up these industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e688	This is in many ways a special debate in Odelstinget, because parts of the minutes of this debate are likely to be read very carefully in court cases in the next few years in relation to the shipping tax. It probably also has some features, not least the rapporteur's statement today. It was so exposed to the slightest opening that there is a process risk for the government and the state in the future, that it might remind me of, I would think, that this is not about risk, but about a Terra-seller travelling in beautiful northern nature. My question to the representative, Mr. Hageseter, who is both an economist and a lawyer, is: What is his assessment of the process risk faced by the government and the state with regard to the shipping tax, if there is a legal settlement about the constitutionality of the decisions taken today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e695	I want to thank you for a very good question. I totally agree that the government is out on thin ice in this matter. There is an assessment that I have become more and more over-exploited about as the process has progressed in this matter. I also found the comments that the so-called plural has written in this case, saying very strongly that it is not the Stortinge that has formulated these comments, but rather the Ministry. I feel that there has not been a good enough assessment in this matter, and I am quite overconfident that there will be legal proceedings in the wake of this case. I believe that the bulk of this stuff is very thin, and that the rafter layers are well suited, because this case has not been assessed in a sufficiently good way. At least that's my assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e702	First, I want to refute the claim that just came, that it is the Ministry of Finance that has written the comment that the majority of the vote has. I put it in the pen, and that's what they say. Secondly, I would like to ask the representative, Mr Hagesetter, about the following: You stated in your speech that the law professors who were at the hearing of the Finance Committee explicitly said that the proposal for a new shipping tax scheme is contrary to the Constitution. I wonder who said it, and I wonder what the quote was like, how it was said.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e709	The President will again point out that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e712	Now, the case spokesperson also drew some conclusions from what these professors said. So this was my conclusion and my assessment of what they said. Of course I don't have these copies in front of me here, but the professors expressed a unison scepticism as to whether this was in line with the Constitution. The Aasland Supreme Court also stated that, as he saw it, there was a need for reassessment in future proceedings. We've had that as a starting point, and I can't see that there's anything new in this case in the plural commentary. I also take note of what is being said that you yourself have carried this in the pen. I said very well that I meant that a lot indicates that the department has written this, and I also think that the department has been strong inside the image. So my claim that a person has not carried out a free and independent assessment in this matter, I believe there is a basis for maintaining it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e719	The President will again point out that all speeches are to be passed through the President. The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e724	Tax policy is an important policy instrument. The right considers that the lower level of taxation is positive for labour supply, for investment and for savings, and that tax incentives therefore make important contributions to the economy and contribute to increased growth and well-being. Our alternative proposal recognises that the country primarily lacks labour. Then it must pay off to work. That's why we're lowering the tax on work by increasing the minimum deduction by NOK 2500. That is why we have proposals to get more older people to work. We want to give direct tax credits to people in the AFP position who want to work on. This is the internal file of the labour market and the labour reserve – experienced, well-adult people, many people who want both an improved economy and a more active life of continuing professional participation. The nation can't afford to be ahead of them, and we should tell it through tax incentives, not just in party speeches. We also suggest that all pensioners between the ages of 67 and 70 should be able to work as much as they want without shortening the pension. This is one of the promises to Jens Stoltenberg, whom he intends to make in a few years' time. We're proposing to do this right away. We are significantly increasing the fishing deduction in order to counter the specific recruitment problems that this industry is struggling with, among other things. due to unequal conditions of competition. The reason for this is the subsidised pay schemes in other activities. We also need more from social security to work and, therefore, in our 31-point labour market package, we have several measures to do this together with measures to facilitate labour migration. It is also important through the level of taxation to stimulate saving. Saving helps people to take more individual responsibility for themselves, their own economy and their families. It also contributes to absorbing purchasing power into an uplifted economy and will be able to dampen the pressure on interest rates. Here the government has from day one consistently gone in the wrong direction and removed incentives for saving. We propose in this budget that the IPS scheme be made more favourable, with a savings and deduction of 40 000, as in the old IPA scheme, and that the individual annuity savings scheme be reinstated. In order to return to the savings of young people, we propose a significant increase in BSU savings, i.e. housing savings. Housing saving is the most important form of saving in Norway. Nearly 80 pst. by those living in owner-occupied dwellings, save by maintaining and increasing the value of their dwellings through lifelong interest. And this most rooted of all Norwegian savings has the government so far, since they took over, premiered by increasing the equation rate by well over 50 pst., which means that the housing owners now pay up to 1.5 billion kr more in taxes on their homes than they did before. In addition, the Government has implemented extensions to the scope of the Property Tax Act to inspire several municipalities to tax property also on people's leisure homes. Increased taxation of dwellings is at all a central instrument for this government, uncertain for what reason. It is also followed up in the setting up of the petty proposal to tax free residence abroad, rescued a country in the last few years by an intervention note, which in fact in the long run provides for an even more petty scheme in which it is still possible to exempt public employees. Tax policy must also stimulate investment in Norwegian business and employment. The government has as consistently as in the case of housing taxes, each year increasing the tax on investment in Norwegian business. Half a million people participate in private ownership by owning shares. The stock discount has been systematically reduced to nothing left of it, all the time under the cover of being tax increases directed towards the rich. But these are the owners of the small farms of the country. This is the Norwegian ownership that is otherwise valued so highly. The right also proposes to increase depreciation rates for machinery designed for environmental investment. This was a kind of depreciation that the Minister of Finance's party was always in opposition until the government teaches that it is actually a tax haven. The right will also remove the NOx fee for the fishing fleet and the cruise industry. We want to stimulate employees to own their own business, and will increase the amount of the purchase of shares. We want to get people back to work faster by reintroducing the tax exemption scheme to cover treatment costs and disease costs. Tax FUNCTIONING schemes contribute in a non-bureaucratic way to research and development, and we therefore want to reverse the government's limitations in these frameworks. Ownership is also cost through generational shifts in enterprises, and we therefore strongly support the proposal for conditional exemption from the inheritance and gift of business, a proposal that facilitates generational shifts and stimulates new generations to move on. So to the most central tax change in this budget, that is the shipping tax. Right supports the introduction of a new system. This is a good model. But the government's treatment of transitional rules, from the former tonnage tax model, with the withdrawal of 14 billion kroner from shipping companies over a decade, and with long retroactive effects, 11 years, will not create any confidence between industry and government. The transitional rules are designed without dialogue with industry, and the Government itself expresses doubts in the proposition about the sustainability of the transitional rules in relation to the Constitutional Act § 97 on the retroactive effect of laws. We believe that the government should take more time, engage in dialogue with the industry and come up with a proposal that took account of it and the Constitution. Several references have concluded with clear constitutional arguments. However, it is primarily the committee's consultation with three independent experts that must be the basis for the independent and thorough assessment that the ministry has wanted the Stortinge to make. And all three called experts expressed strong doubts as to whether the Government's proposal for transitional arrangements is in line with the Basic Law § 97. I believe that the hearing reinforced the doubts of the Right regarding the rules from which they were presented. The experts pointed out that the production of the proposition was one-sided, that it lacked impact assessments, and that the long return was a problem, and that the concept of ‘tax credits’ was to a small extent adequate for the amounts proposed by the shipping companies and that it was understandable that the shipping companies could not foresee such a tax change, so that the transitional arrangements provide a marked degree of retroactive legislation. I quote from the Aasland Supreme Court in the hearing: ‘This will mean paying for a new scheme with benefits acquired under old schemes, and it may not be sustainable.’ It is surprising that, in their independent and thorough assessments of an 18-page note, the parties to the government do not attach more importance to the consultation, which is the committee's own basis. The representative of Aasen Agdestein went through this today and refers largely to the proposition and other known views, but not to the hearing. The only thing you've tried to repair is the proposition's somewhat lack of description of the consequences for the shipping companies, by recognising that shipping companies can go bankrupt. However, the fact is that the Basic Law guarantees of legal certainty cannot be set aside even if the majority of the Storting openly gives the effect. It doesn't help the relationship with the Constitution to say that you know that the effects are dramatic. The majority are at all unaffected by their meeting with the three experts in the hearing, as well as by other investigations carried out by outstanding constitutional lawyers who have been highly criticised, by massive criticism from shipping companies, seafarers’ organisations and businesses in the maritime cluster along the coast. These views have, of course, been taken into account in the economic context, but this is a major and important industry for Norway. Now the representative of Aasen Agdestein in his post here today says that the opposition has not discussed the relationship with the Constitution § 97. They have not made an independent assessment. Yes, we have, but we have not made any assessment of whether this should be unconstitutional. Our main approach here is doubt. It's the doubt that's our problem. There is doubt that we have promoted the proposal we have made, asking the Government to enter into this, to engage in dialogue with the industry and to try to find a better solution in relation to the Basic Law, in relation to industry and in relation to the equity situation of enterprises. It's been our business. I repeat that I find it quite strange that the majority is so unaffected by the committee's own hearing, that they repeat virtually the arguments of the proposition mechanically, let the criticism be unanswered and almost locked in the ivory tower, throw the keys and ask the industry to discuss their terms with the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e782	The President asks whether the representative should address some of the proposals that have been made by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e786	I'm sorry – I'm definitely taking up the proposals, because they're good! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e791	The representative of the Svein Fleet has drawn up the proposals he referred to – uncertainly the quality of them. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e796	Thus, even though the Right is officially opposed to the Government’s proposal for the repayment of tax credits by the shipping companies, they propose in their alternative budget to use large amounts of revenue – 800 million. kr – in 2008. Means that the Right really agrees with the Government's proposal, 60 pst. does it agree, or does it mean that the right does not take the budgeting of the alternative budget seriously? The least we can ask is that the right-hand side balances its budget with tax receipts for which the right-hand side is for, or has a deposit. In Finnmark, we have an expression called "paper fish" when someone tries to cheat either with quota or with quantity. I am not going to accuse the Right of either the one or the other, but the idea has crossed my mind – well and mark if the representative Fleet can now confirm that he agrees with the Government, or agrees with the Government on the way, in the arrangement we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e805	It is true that if our proposal, based on the strong doubt that we have, had been adopted, and if the ministry had done this, I am not a moment in doubt, with my knowledge of the Norwegian government, of the Ministry of Finance, that solutions would be found for the bookkeeping. Because what's surprising here is that the government parties, which should really discuss their big problem with regard to the constitutionality of this, end up with a procuratorial discussion. They're discussing what the bookkeeping should be like. What government parties should be occupied with is the bookkeeping in the companies, which has to account for a significant reduction in its equity. It is bookkeeping that the Workers' Party should be concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e810	I'll stick to the theme of containment. The right's alternative budget means a tax reduction of approximately DKK 4.5 billion in accrued value and approximately DKK 2.4 billion in book value compared to the Government's proposals. Large parts of the containment shall be passed through unspecified efficiencies, including: in the departments. This form of containment is very uncertain, and the right could not take this out as they themselves put in government. Are the tax breaks and the deposits combined really credible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e815	Our invasions are absolutely credible. In economic policy, the Right, as was actually said in the financial debate by speakers from the Workers' Party, is very credible. No one has to tell me that there are no significant savings in the public sector, in the state sector. With the municipal economy to which it has now been allocated, municipalities throughout the country are forced to make significant changes and to make significant improvements in efficiency. There's $1 billion missing. No one has to tell me that it is not entirely possible to do the equivalent elsewhere in the Norwegian administration. This is very much economical.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e822	It is quite alarming to hear the representative fleet talk about the Right's position in this matter. I believe that the representative fleet simply does not take up its role as elected representatives. Is it true that when the Right proposed changes to the tax on disposable packaging, which would lead to the breweries being laid down in Norway, and when they made changes to the net pay scheme for seafarers, which would lead to flagging out, the fleet was not in doubt that it was just going to happen? So, as I interpret what the Fleet is saying now, the accounting principles are crucial to the Right's position, because they have used the deposit from the conversion of the shipping tax to balance their budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e827	When it comes to taking their role as elected representatives seriously, I don't want to go into any special discussion with the representative of Klungland about it. What any one does, gets talk by itself. But I now understand that Rolf Terje Klungland is continuing the discussion about economic accounting, about the disruption. He is not at all interested in, in the same way as the representative Aasen Agdestein, discussing the background to why we have promoted our proposal to send it back, so that the Government could come back to this in the revised budget, namely the doubt in relation to a large Norwegian industry along the whole coast, even where the representative Klungland lives. It was important to us, and it seems that it does not affect the Workers' Party at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e834	So the discussion that has been, and the assessment that the majority of the Stortinges have made in this case, have led us to conclude that this is under the Constitution. Right wants to postpone this to the revised budget for spring. But they have already said that they will come to the same decision as the majority, because they use this money to balance their budget. Does the representative Fleet believe that the Constitution will change until the revised budget comes? What I have trouble understanding is that on the one hand you spend the money and thus say that this is within the Constitution, and on the other hand you talk about accounting and you say in doubt about how to book it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e841	No, I don't think the Constitution will change until the revised budget. Nor do I believe that the practice of the Constitution and their assessment of the Constitution will change to the revised budget, but I think the change will come. While Rolf Terje Klungland and other representatives from the Workers' Party spend time discussing – I allow myself to call it – the accounting technique in this important debate, they easily get past what the representative of Klungland calls the party's independent and thorough assessment of the Constitution in this setting that exists. The independent and thorough assessment is an echo of what the ministry has written in the proposition, nothing else. They did not care about the hearing at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e848	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e852	The Government Parties present a tax scheme that has two clear profiles. Many environmental taxes are being increased, which is in line with the polluter’s payment, and we are making good redeployment efforts. I want to use the rest of my contribution to talk about the proposal to claim outstanding tax credits with the repeal of the current shipping tax scheme. This proposal is controversial, inter alia: because it has been claimed to be contrary to the Constitution. This issue has been carefully considered, both before the proposal was promoted by the Government, and afterwards. In the vote, a very thorough statement, the majority of the Committee on Finance has been presented with the assessment of the constitutional aspects of this issue. I stress that there has been a thorough process in the Financial Committee, where the question of whether the proposed changes are in line with the Constitution has been assessed on a maritime basis. The current company tax system is based on the fact that income from shipping activities is taxed only when the company withdraws from the shipping tax system or when the income is paid as a dividend to the owner outside the scheme. The new shipping tax scheme provides Norwegian shipping companies with competitive framework conditions in relation to other European countries. Let there be no doubt that SV had primarily wanted the shipping companies to pay taxes on the same line as other industries. But that's not the majority for that. That is why we are pleased with a shipping tax scheme that also provides Norwegian shipping companies with almost zero taxes for the future. The problem is that this industry also does not pay taxes in other countries, including EU countries. SV now wants Norway to work internationally to get shipowners to pay taxes, like everyone else in all countries. However, this proposal has to be seen in conjunction with the proposal that shipping companies pay back some of the tax credits outstanding. Paragraph 97 of the Constitution lays down a general prohibition on giving burdensome laws with retroactive effect. All retroactive effects are not covered by the ban. The question is whether the paper size can be changed by law at the time of taxation or whether taxpayers can largely determine when the tax liability occurs. As I see it, it is the general content of the current scheme that needs to be assessed against the changes proposed. There is no basis for equivalence of the current scheme with a definitive tax exemption. The Swedish Shipowners' Association also sees today's system as a tax deferral scheme, not a tax exemption scheme. The report International Maritime Taxation, published by the Norwegian Shipowners' Association, states: ‘In contrast to the European system, the Norwegian tonnage tax system only provides for a deferral of taxation. The system is the source of the build-up of some large tax credits and thus the lock-in of capital.» The transitional arrangement constitutes a disadvantage for companies that have earned tax liabilities in the present scheme, as they cannot determine for themselves when the tax liabilities are due to be paid. Nevertheless, the proposal provides considerable relief compared to an alternative where the entire tax liability is due for payment immediately. The tax liabilities shall be paid over 10 years and one third of the tax liabilities shall not be charged if the shipping companies use the funds for environmental purposes. This is in addition to the value of the tax deferral they have already received. Nor is there any basis for saying that the payment of the tax liability would be unduly severe neither for industry as a whole nor for individual companies. There is a strong link between the soundness and performance of companies and the amount of the tax liability. What has emerged in the process that has now been carried out in relation to the Constitution § 97 is carefully summarised in the comments of the majority in the position being considered today. I would like to say that I have rarely seen an adjustment with such thorough assessments. In the light of this, I would conclude that the proposal for a transitional arrangement is not to be regarded as clearly unfair or unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e882	Prime Minister Stoltenberg is one of the most eager to claim that while the previous government spent money on tax relief, today's government spends money on Community solutions. Implicit in such a reasoning is that the income of taxpayers is initially the money of the country and that the country may be generous and allow employees to retain part of their own income. I will not ask the representative if she agrees with such reasoning, even if it is tempting. I would rather ask the representative, Valle, if she agrees with me that if an employee retains more of his own income, will the employee have greater financial freedom to prioritize his own well-being, or if she agrees with Prime Minister Stoltenberg, who claims that tax relief is only a cost item on the government budget in the same way as welfare services?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e889	The reason why we have taxes is that we need to redeploy into society – it is one of the most important redistribution measures – and that is to create a basis for good, robust Community schemes. We are in favour of reducing the differences, we are in favour of redistribution, and this proposal involves important redistribution measures. But then it's also about what we do when it comes to kindergartens. The bet that's been on kindergartens now is a formidable redistribution act. As far as school is concerned, we're redistributing so that we reduce the social differences in school, and that's a redistribution grip. We're pretty ambitious about continuing the redistribution. We're not in the port yet, but we're going to continue this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e894	The representative of Ågot Valle categorically states that the conversion of the shipping tax scheme is within the scope of the Basic Law. The size had recently been a hearing, which is also the basis of the Storting to address the issue. Let me ask the representative Ågot Valle simply: what was it in the Stortingen hearing that SV can clearly state that the shipping tax conversion is in line with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e901	Let it be clear that the shipping companies and shipowners have received and have had a very favourable tax system. Now that we're going to move on, it's clear that we have to balance people's sense of justice here, that the tax system should have confidence, because other industries are not close to having the kind of favourable tax arrangements that companies can continue to have, and the business policy considerations, because we think it's important to have maritime industries. I've read the setting, and I think it's very thorough. It is, as I said, rarely that such a thorough attitude is presented, with answers to all the hearings, to all the questions, and answers to the proposition. I sincerely believe that the proposal takes care of the citizens' requirements for protection under the Constitution § 97 and the freedom of action of the Stortingen to provide new tax laws. [[The President clubs.]] It may not be considered as: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e908	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e911	Yeah, I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e916	First, a comment to Mr Ågot Valle's statement that the position of the majority of the committee is unusually thorough. It might have something to do with the fact that the proposition was unusually thin at this point. To the extent that they have then tried to repair it, it has probably resulted in extensive comments regarding the shipping tax area. I want to ask Valle about the following: SV is a party that is engaged in redistribution and turning the tax system towards green taxes. To what extent does the representative think that the approach that will now be adopted reflects the important points of view of the SV in this area? In many comments, perhaps also from their own ranges, it is said that the distribution effect is weak, and that the distortion against green taxes and green taxes is also too weak.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e923	First, I would like to say that the Storting has its own responsibility to make assessments of the propositions and of the other issues presented by the Government. I am very pleased that there are many who are calling for more redistribution and more environmental measures, including green taxes. We SVs are very happy that there are many who get on the track and require greater redistribution and more environmental measures. This last one was just supposed to be missing, as big threats as we now see in climate change, which most of the time threaten those who both the Christian People's Party and SV are very concerned about, namely the poorest. We're on our way to a better redistribution. We're on our way to a transformation of the green taxes. We are impatient, and I am sure the Minister of Finance will come back with even more of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e932	The representative of Ågot Valle used his statement to argue for the shipping tax, that it complies with the Constitution. At my discretion, the proposition is unusually deleted in this field. When all the counter-arguments came to the table, it was quite obvious that the government party fraction in the financial committee had a strong need to argue where there is no argument in the proposition, probably because the process risk was considered quite large – and increasing. The representative of Ågot Valle is currently our leading trust leader in Odelstinget and presides. Therefore, I think it may be important that she responds to this: recently, Odelstingen's decision was endorsed in the Supreme Court, because it was unconstitutional. It's an unworthy situation for Odelstinget. The representative Valle probably thinks it's a less risk than what I'm doing. Equally full: does she agree that it is unworthy for Odelstinget to have its decisions approved by the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e942	Of course, Odelstinget must ensure that the decisions taken by Odelstinget are maintained. I believe that the majority has assessed this in a very thorough and responsible manner. The representative of Sponheim is very aware that the undersigned is not a member of the Financial Committee, but I have read the majority comment. There, a whole scheme assesses whether it is contrary to the Constitution or not, whether it complies with the Constitution or not. One points out, but ends with a clear assessment, that there is a balance between the protection of citizens under the Constitution § 97 and the freedom of action of the Stortinge to provide new tax laws, and that the system “cannot be considered clearly unfair or unfair”.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e949	It's not particularly impressive that Ågot Valle trusts the red-green parties, but it's quite remarkable that Odelsting's president hasn't got better into this matter than she's obviously done. I would like to ask a specific question, and this is whether Mr Ågot Valle has read the record of the hearing conducted by the Stortinget, which is the very basis for the conclusions drawn by the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e956	What the undersigned has read or has not read, I will not go into. I've read the proposition, and I've read the setting. My conclusion is the same as that of the majority, that this is within the Constitution, and that it is a clear assessment. One has weighed for and opposed, but has come to the conclusion that the transitional arrangement is within the scope of the constitutional provision and ‘cannot be regarded as manifestly unfair or unfair’. I have full confidence in the thorough work done by the entire Financial Committee. I've noticed that the right is spending 800 million. NOK of the amount that you can claim. Nor can the representative Sanner disagree that this is within the provisions of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e965	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e968	With regard to the overall tax system, we have a change from the Christian People's Party within the same framework as the Government has. That's a change in the internal amount of about NOK 3 billion. Our changes are primarily in the direction of turning on taxes and charges to stimulate more environmentally friendly and healthier consumption. We also turn the tax system in a more entrepreneurial direction, including: in the case of changes in inheritance taxes and, for example, in the case of: building up under the TAX FUNN scheme. In addition, we want to stimulate more savings, including: by extending the BSU and by ensuring that the amount of the tax credit can be saved for one's own pension is increased. It is also an important point for the Christian People's Party that in the tax system that we have, it should be a reasonable distribution. That is also the background to the proposals we have on the taxation of wealth. In addition, I would like to say that in the interests of business, the Government should now really work more closely with – I know that for example. The centre party is bound by it – that the working capital of the business community is not taxed with property taxes. I think that will be a good grip overall for Norwegian business, not least when you see the tax in other countries in that particular area. So to the more controversial issues related to the tax changes for next year. We note that the proposal to change the power plant tax has a rather lukewarm connection also from the government parties. I think it's hard to read the remark from the government parties at that point in any other way. I would like to challenge the speakers who are left from the government parties, if the comment could mean that it is possible to imagine that the changes – and then I don't think about the interest rate increase from 27 p.m. 30 pst, but the other changes – may be reversed through such a reassessment. It is quite striking that the proposals of the Government seem to have little impact in several areas. This applies to the power plant tax, of course to the shipping tax – which I will come back to – but it also applies to the taxation of free housing abroad. The majority of U.D. staff are under their wings and say that they need compensation, while we know that the proposal will also affect non-governmental organisations – even if when asked about it in the department, they deny that this is the case. The point is that you do not consider the matter in relation to the reality as it is. You evaluate it based on the theory you're in. The same can be said about forest wealth calculations. Here it is also taken a desk decision that is completely unreasonable in relation to reality. Finally, there will necessarily be a few words about the shipping tax: First of all, using some of the funds from the government's shipping tax means that they'll be part of the government's revenue for next year. No income can be taken into account because we benefit from the constitutional understanding. What we're saying is that we assume that the government will come up to the revised budget, in cooperation with the industry, with a proposal that will in sum give the heads of each opposition party. We think that's actually going to be possible. Secondly, what is the problem with the Constitution? Is this an unfair and unfair decision in relation to the ban on return laid down in the Grundgesetz § 97? Well, that's unclear. That's this ambiguity we're pointing at. What I think is important is to refer to the number of years the feedback applies to, and whether what the Government wants to achieve with the proposal can be achieved in other ways. I think that's actually the case. I don't get time to go into the actual argument in the proposition from the Government, for the time being, but let me say it this way: after all, there's something more substance in the remarks from the majority than it does in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e994	The President asks whether the representative intends to address the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e997	I fully agree with Mr Fletten that such good proposals should be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1002	Then the representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1007	The financial settings that Stortinget treated two days ago, and Innst. O. No 1 which we are now debating, has shown what kind of restraint the Christian People's Party has to the Government's proposal on transitional arrangements when it applies to the taxation of fleet laws in our country. The Christian People's Party is launching a hybrid solution. The government's proposal is rejected first. Then the Christian People's Party spends NOK 1.2 billion on tax revenue in its alternative budget, and this amounts to over 85 pst. of the amount in relation to the proposal of the Government. I find that the Christian People's Party in this matter is clearly in an imprecise hurry – an exercise that the representative Syversen normally and fortunately stay far away from. So I ask, what is the reason why the Christian People's Party operates so inconsistently in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1016	The allegation of inconsistency and unrelenting turf shall be borne by the representative Sandal's own account. The Christian People's Party assumes that there is a solution with the shipping industry to the so-called tax credit of NOK 21 billion, where 75 pst. of the amount that is being ruined in an environmental fund, where it can also be regarded as equity. 25 pst. We believe that a dialogue with the industry should be paid in. It's not crucial for us to call this tax collection or anything else. The point is that we want a solution, so that we can get rid of what we can probably now stand before, that this is going to be a matter for the judiciary. Such a solution, I think, we all would have been much better served than what the majority today decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1023	The Christian People's Party has no alternative tax solutions for the shipping industry, and that's all the reason for asking what kind of shipping tax arrangement the Christian People's Party really wants. One could understand the representative there that they will only go into the 1.2 billion they have now entered in their 2008 budget. But then the real representative of the Seven and Christian People's Party shows a much greater dishonesty than, for example, one. The party of progress, because it would have been no problem for the Christian People's Party to make a proposal here in the hall where they had collected NOK 1.2 billion in tax from the shipping companies in 2008 and thus had gone against the shipping tax. I'm interpreting it so that the Seven really have big problems defining what is the Constitution's intention, and whether this is outside or within.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1029	I have had the pleasure of hearing lay-outs from the representative of Klungland regarding the Constitution and the Grandfather's tasks related to the Constitution, and I am not quite sure if those instructions are something the Christian People's Party should listen to so much, to be honest. I repeat what I said, for us, there is an overall arrangement with the shipping industry we want to get to. And in the case of a future tax scheme for the industry, we agree. The question is how we solve what the representative of Klungland calls tax credits. It's not crucial for us whether it's the payment of taxes we're going to call it. The point is to get a solution. Then we have indicated a possible solution, that 75 pst. of the 21 billion enter an environmental fund and the remaining one is sought through an agreement between industry and authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1036	In any case, this will have consequences in relation to what is the big discussion, whether it is within the Constitution, as the majority in this Chamber has assessed and concluded that it does. So it's an inconsistency from the Christian People's Party. They actually show that there is a broad majority here on the Stortinget who believe that this is within the provisions of the Constitution. At the same time, they say there should be an agreement with the industry. I think it is very serious that a political party should negotiate with an industry under the Constitution, given what they think is right. The industry received internationally competitive rules in 2006. Now they get that, from 2007 and as far as anyone can see in the future. Does the Christian People's Party support that the industry should have the arrangement that we hope to adopt today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1041	I feel in a way that the representative Klungland asks without listening to the answers he has received in the past. To repeat, first of all, what Klungland says is completely wrong is that there will be a broad majority who say that fundamental law here is in order. There is hardly a majority to decide, in case, and that in itself is not a favourable situation. I just want to insist that we are looking for a solution to avoid problems with the Constitution. We've been thinking – and we think we'd be able to do that if it was the will of the majority – to get a solution with the industry. We must record that the majority does not have as an intention. It would rather be an attempt to push through the decision, risk that it is contrary to the Constitution, and possibly take the consequences of it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1053	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1056	In today's debate on the tax package for 2008, I will initially underline the main pillars of the Central Party's fiscal policy. For the purpose of personal taxation, the line of the Centre Party is income tax according to its ability. Thus, the centre party is a strong follower of increasing tax rates for increasing taxable income, as well as of a wealth taxation in which wealth that gives labour-free income over a base deduction is taxed as wealth. Corporate taxation shall take account of more social considerations than equal taxes on the profits of enterprises. Both business policy and environmental considerations need to be given high weight and business neutrality in corporate taxation is therefore not appropriate. The government proposes changes in the taxation of profits on the relocation of European companies, known as SEs. The central party is very pleased with the Government's proposal to amend the tax law on several points relating to SEs. An overall opposition disagrees with the Government's proposal. This is very interesting and an important political distinction in the fiscal policy of enterprises that have the opportunity to move to countries with more favourable tax rules. It is not the line of the Centre Party to facilitate more SEs, as this would undermine the national tax base of the companies. The opposition argues that this is contrary to the EU Commission’s view of what follows from the EEA Agreement and thus contrary to our contractual obligations. Make a note of the EU Commission's views! Thus, the opposition's understanding of the content of our EEA Agreement is as the EEA opponents claimed in 1992 but as the EEA supporters then rejected. The central party assumes what the then government wrote in St.prp. No 100 for 1991-1992 on consent to the ratification of the EEA Agreement, Chapter 1, point 1.9.2, page 45, where it states: «The EEA Agreement does not include fiscal policy, fiscal policy or exchange rate policy.» The government is now establishing a competitive company tax model for the future. This is the Central Party pleased. The maritime industries are some of our strongest business environments. We have international advantages, and it is important for the Central Party to contribute to ensuring this for the future as well. As regards the transitional arrangement, the Centre Party has addressed this matter with solutions other than those proposed by the Government of the United Kingdom compromise. The majority of the Central Party Group have taken note of the Government's view of the shipping tax based on the political situation in which we are. The Group has therefore accepted the existing proposal. With regard to plant taxation, the Centre Party also joins the Government's proposal to amend it, while emphasising the Government's expressed objective of an overall target of 30 TWh in increasing renewable energy production and energy efficiency from 2001 to 2016. The comments made by the parties to the Government in this case are a comment which will be clarified in papers submitted to the Stortinget in the revised national budget for 2008. In particular, the majority ask for feedback on whether there may be conditions that prevent socially sound upgrading, renewal and construction of renewable energy installations on a broad scale. The government proposes changes to the system of gross taxes on the realization of land in agriculture. The government's proposal results in the total gain of the year on the realization of plots of individual enterprises in the agricultural industry being exempt from gross tax if the amount of the gain does not exceed NOK 150 000. So that's going to be 28 pst. the tax on the gain. Everyone must note that this is a threshold, so that if the gain exceeds the limit of 150000, the entire gain becomes gross taxable. It is the amount of depreciation for the year before the entry of the gain and loss account into industry that determines whether it becomes the gross tax liability or one for the income to be derived from the account over time. The centre party is satisfied that there is a positive change in the profit tax on empty etc. for individual enterprises in the agricultural industry. Compared to today's rules with more favourable taxation on non-agricultural land gains and on limited liability companies, the Government's proposal is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1085	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1088	I wanted to get into a topic that the representative Lundtigen himself involved in his post – the power plant tax. There is no doubt that the framework conditions that the Government now imposes will in many ways weaken the value creation and be district enemy. The way you put it up, they're actually going to be hostile to the environment. An overall industry has given very clear feedback on the approach that the representative Lundtägen intends to vote for later today in terms of the power plant tax. Many interest groups and counties, etc., also in the Centerpartiet – the party Lundtigen represents – have reacted quite strongly, I have registered. Is it true that Lundtigen in the innermost part of the world is pleased to vote for today's increased power plant tax and to pay close attention to the comment that lies there, which is just some vague wording and which does not provide any guarantees for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1095	Feelings are important. To what extent you should interpret your feelings from the Storting Chair is a different question. However, what is the matter here with regard to the power plant taxation is the extent to which one is required to amend the rules on the taxation of electricity plants. Real interest rate taxation on power plants is a system that differs from the taxation on land-based business otherwise by the fact that it is a very high tax on super-profits, as it is called. In this case, one must never lose sight of the fact that this is the case. If there is an ordinary profit within the limits of ordinary taxation, that is the case. I also agree that the proposal has produced strong reactions. This is something with which the Central Party’s large-scale group will follow closely in the future, and we are responding with great interest to what comes from the Government in the context of the revised 2008 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1104	I understand that the Central Party Group has had a different approach and a different starting point to the transitional rules in the shipping tax than to what has been the Government's position. That means that it's actually, and really, from what you really think, a majority against the transitional rules in this room. That brings me to the question: a constitutional conservative party, such as the Centre Party, was present at the representative Lundtigen's hearing on constitutional law. What makes the representative Lundtigen so sure that this is according to the Constitution § 97, when he sees at the top of the whole thing that this goes against the opinion that the group really has? Isn't that a serious cross of thought for the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1111	The Group of the Centre Party has dealt with this matter over a long period of time and with the seriousness of the matter. The majority of the Centre Party Group have taken note of the proposals and comments and are behind them. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, what the representative Fleet says is that the centre party's input into the question of transitional arrangements was different from the solution that one has finally come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1124	A few minutes ago, Rolf Terje Klungland proclaimed that there was a broad consensus in this room on the proposal for transitional rules for the shipping tax, and that it was in relation to the Constitution. We just have to note that, after the very sincere speech by the representative, Lundtigen, the majority is considerably reduced, perhaps to a minority – if everyone had voted according to their belief. It is not uninteresting in this matter. I will now turn to the question about the power plant tax. Let's say we agree to increase the basic interest rate from 27 pst. until 30 p.m., but then there are the other proposals that the Government has put forward, on which questions are raised in the majority vote. Does this mean that all other changes can also be revised?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1131	The remark made by the government parties to the power plant tax is a comment that goes beyond what the representative Syversen now says. In addition to the tax aspects to be discussed, the incentive schemes that we have through the feed-in mechanism that are also to be discussed, the response procedures we have and the capacity management procedures we have. At all: we're going to look at the whole thing that's needed to realize the government's goal of providing a whole 30 TWh – 30 terrrawatt hours – which is close to 25 pst. of our entire hydropower production for a period until 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1136	The representative Lundtigen and I were together in the Finance Committee, and later in the decision to raise and increase in 1996, when the shipping tax system we have had in recent years was adopted. I want to go so far as to say that perhaps the representative Lundtigen and the Central Party were pushing number one to achieve such a successful tax regime. It has given many beautiful Norwegian companies located in Norway, and many ships sailing under Norwegian flag, where profits have not been taken out of the company, but kept in the company, because we introduced an exit model. It's a success story that's under resolution, which it shines off, and the representative Lundtigen can be proud of. So we're going to go there and now we're going to wind this system up in a new and good order, but then we're going to have a retroactive effect of eleven years. Can the representative Lundtigen confirm what is my opinion, that the time we put together this tax guess we had no idea that it was a tax credit we gave these companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1143	The representative of Lundtigen remembers the debate in the committee, remembers even better the debate in the media afterwards, and fully agrees with the representative of Sponheim that the shipping tax agenda that was introduced at the time was a success story. There is no disagreement in this room today, as far as I have seen, other than that it was right. Afterwards, several people recognized that one got it. It's the same way that the system that's now in place is a system that's in line with the competitive situation we're now in. As far as the transitional arrangement is concerned, I just want to refer to what I said earlier. It's a point of view that the central party's big group is standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1150	Reiarlaga is the basis for an industry that employs 100,000 people. Many of these people are living in the districts. The majority acknowledge that the proposed tax tightening will harm the industry, and therefore it is natural to believe that this will also harm and weaken many district workplaces. The representative, Lundtigen, says that the Central Party has gone into this matter with proposals for other solutions, but that one has accepted the solution that is leading. Then my question to the representative Lundteigen is: does the representative Lundteigen and the Central Party feel pressured in this matter to take a position in which they really disagree?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1157	First, two concepts: ‘tax tightening’ and ‘injury to the industry’. The concept of tax-enforcement is fundamentally wrong. There is no tax if one fulfils the obligations in the plan. So here it's not about any 'tax enhancement', it's about a transition from a system to a new system. To the extent that one can talk about ‘injuring the industry’, there is a question of the settlement arrangements that one chooses and the extent to which they involve a tax burden that is such that it is unreasonable. The Company Tax Scheme was subject to obligations, and there is a significant point that the Advance Party Group must take into account in the discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1162	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1165	The previous government was given a tax reform that provides a flat and simpler tax system, a reform that in its facility rewards investments in enterprises over dividends for their own consumption. There's a line left that will continue, and at the same time we want to twist the entire tax system in a more environmentally friendly direction. We are disappointed that the Government does not go more offensively to work in the same direction. Both the fact that climate problems are the greatest political challenge of our time, and that the Government should keep the overall level of taxation unchanged, suggest a far more offensive red-green-tax conversion than the government's prudent change of some taxes. However, I choose to interpret the Minister of Finance's contributions to the financial debate on Tuesday as a declaration of will to go further in this direction in the next budget, and look forward to constructive cooperation on this. There is reason to remember that if we cancel all of the exemptions or reductions we have in CO2 taxes, electricity taxes and base charges for fuel oil, subsidising power contracts, which we probably have to do in any case, and do not provide free allowances for CO2, we can release about DKK 10 billion that we can use for targeted tax reliefs to create the creative knowledge society of the future. Although it is hardly relevant to do all of this in a Jaf, there is reason to problematize this. We, the Norwegian community, spend $10 billion on subsidising environmentally hostile behaviour at a time when environmental problems and climate change are our main political challenge. No one is asking for pollution. We're asking for the environmentally friendly solutions. Then we must have a political shift – from red to green. The left is currently proposing a number of changes in tax legislation. Common to these changes is that they are targeted at creating a modern, forward-looking business, they stimulate saving rather than consumption, and they reward it for working. In concrete terms, the Left proposes increased depreciation rates in balancing group d, net deductions for self-employed workers, increased financial limits in the tax FUNN scheme, increased incentives for housing savings for young people, increased tax deductions for individual pension savings, increased share rebates for self-employment participation, increased credit card limit, removal of the curtailment rules in pensions also for the age group 68–70 years, own tax deductions for all at work between 62–67 years, increased fishing deductions and changes in the inheritance tax for family-owned holdings. In order to stimulate a healthier diet or lifestyle, the Left proposes a provincial neutral conversion of the VAT system, combined with higher tobacco taxes. In concrete terms, the Left proposes that there should be no VAT on fruit and vegetables, whereas there should be a full rate of VAT on cheese and heavily sugary drinks, and that the overall food tax should be increased by one percentage point. In addition, the Left proposes the necessary legislative changes in order to establish social arrangements for entrepreneurs and self-employed persons, not trickery and fixation schemes, as proposed by the Government in the State budget, but real, good, lasting schemes which are not over-funded by the self-employed themselves, but which remain within a proceeds of approximately the magnitude of the government's increased deduction from the union quota. I am seriously concerned about the whole of the government's policy regarding ownership of Norwegian business. Through a number of changes in the tax system in the last three budgets, the Government has made it increasingly less profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs and enterprises. This comes at the same time that the Government implements a rather massive increase in state ownership in Norwegian business: SEK 5 billion in Aker Holding, SEK 2.2 billion in a new state investment fund and at least SEK 25 billion for purchase in StatoilHydro – most likely more. That means that the dispersed private ownership is replaced by a significant concentration of power at the hand of the state, without there being a fundamental debate around it at all. This concerns me and the Left, and it should also concern the Government and the Minister of Finance, even though her party is based on the ideals that the state should take over the means of production, and an ideology that community and state are two sides of the same matter. After hearing representatives from the Central Party in the financial debate on Tuesday, it seems unclear what the Government really thinks about a number of issues. Everyone in the Centre Party is obviously very uncomfortable with the increased taxation of small-scale power plants adopted today. In addition, the representative of Lundtigen expressed strong support on behalf of the Centre Party to the Left's proposal for changes in the inheritance fees related to inheritance of family holdings and generational shifts in enterprises. Whether Lundtigen as usual spoke on behalf of itself, or whether this is something that has echoed in major parts of the Government, remains to be seen, but the reverse operation the Government has carried out in relation to the 2006 proposal of the Left on changes in the limits of amounts for voluntary organisations provides at least the basis for a conditional hope. With that, I take up the good proposals, as it is called in today's debate, which the Left is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1197	The representative Lars Sponheim has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1202	If there were no other surprises today, at least in a previous row I was surprised that the leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, could be in doubt. But I'm going to go more into what's the real and the formal. Earlier today, the representative from the Right, Peter Gitmark, said that the hearing in the Committee was crucial. We know that we have received answers to a number of questions that we have sent to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice. We have received a response from the Ministry of Finance, we have received a response from the Swedish Shipowners' Association, we have met the shipping companies and received input from them, and we have used the best legal expertise we have in Norway to assess this matter. What is it that will give the Left to the revision the courage to vote in favour of the Government's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1211	It is at least nice that I have positively surprised the representative not to be anti-slip in a matter. That's absolutely right. If there's something I'm absolutely sure about, there's no basis for being sloppy about the majority's decision today, it's relative to the Constitution. I think that humility might also have been expressed by the representative of Klungland, he would have been honest with himself. Just as the government and the government's representatives have stated, one thing tells me: here the government has a fundamental concern that they are today inviting the Odelstinget to make a decision that will be passed in a future Supreme Court judgment. That is what I think this debate shows, and as I think it is the basis for taking it along. I wish that Odelstinget was invited to make a decision for a safer professional reason than what we are invited to do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1219	The taxing of the fleets that we are about to deal with today is a tax tightening from eleven years back in time, and it lacks a parallel in both Norwegian and European history. At the same time, the majority here says that she has been evaluated in a very thorough and responsible way, but I have not got the whole idea of what the responsible and thorough way is. No is also the representative Lars Sponheim a sharp-skinned party leader, with long, versatile political seagoingness and considerable political weight. I would like to ask: has the representative Sponheim previously experienced similar issues, where there are so many assessments that are contrary to the Basic Law, without any impression of the plurality? Or is this case unique in Sponheim its political career?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1226	Yeah, it's unique. In all the years I've been in this house, I haven't experienced being confronted with such a fundamental uncertainty: whether we're invited to make a decision that is proportionate to the Constitution. I must say, it's been a bit of a pleasant experience. Especially in the light of the fact that exactly this was the case with the shipping tax, I was with me and decided when it was adopted in its time. I remember very well the debate on this. It was actually a tax arrangement made here in the house, by the opposition, not least driven by the representative Lundtigen, who then represented a large party in this house. The Ministry of Finance was enormously opposed, and they have been. This has been a successful regime. It was a successful decision. I am absolutely convinced that it was never intended that this built-in equity, based on this tax haven, should be taxed at a later date for these companies. It wasn't the majority's opinion either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1233	The representative Sponheim is behind a lamp made of metal, he's behind some microphones that probably contain silicon, and he's wearing a clock that probably contains nickel. So as long as we buy cars, washing machines, computers and TVs, these products are going to be produced by somebody who makes money on them. Norway has the least polluting industry in the world. Does the Left and the representative Sponheim actually think they're willing to increase emissions, increase pollution, because they have some kind of principle attitude towards people who have black hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1240	No, there's something a liberal isn't against, it's people with black hands, rather on the contrary. If there are hands that have been responded to by Norwegian industrial work, we are also very much in favour of it. We are very proud to have an industry that is perhaps the cleanest industry in the world. Then you can ask yourself, why does a given world's purest industry have? Well, it's because over the years they've been faced with the toughest environmental requirements some industry's ever faced. They themselves have protested every time, but the decisions have been taken in this Chamber, and they have adapted to the decisions. This is what the Left wants to continue: strict environmental requirements for industry and real prices of inputs, for example. force. Then I'm talking about power purchased in a market, and not politically priced as the representative of Klungland has stood for in this room over the years. It gives the most environmentally competitive industry, and I still want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1245	No more words have been asked for a line, and the line break is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1248	In the draft budget, there are two very clear directions in the tax and tax regime, and that is the red and the green. I fully agree with the representative Sponheim's desire to create a more consistent tax system based on the polluter pays principle. You can get hold of this setting for the Storing that is just going in that direction. Then there is a very clear desire from the Government and from the bulk of the population to change the tax system in a more fair direction. I disagree with the representative Sponheim that someone has to switch from red to green. It is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, and I think it will also give increased acceptance for the polluter-pays principle. The steps taken in relation to the distribution profile in this budget are very important. They will contribute to tax relief at the bottom of the wealth tax, but also to a significantly greater legitimacy, in my opinion, in terms of the tax system, because some of the most wealthy people in Norway have to contribute more to the common funds than before. The clearing job done by the Government in relation to fees that everyone can see is overpriced, namely by going through and figuring out what fees and sector fees it is that actually attracts more to the common fund than what covers the cost of producing them, we have now come quite far into it. What we're doing this time is zeroing out the hidden snitch tax that the Bondevik government introduced on passports, by drastically reducing the fees on it. I think it also has a bearing on the emergence of a welfare state funded by the tax system. So to some of the things that have been most debated in connection with the presentation of the budget, namely the Government's proposal to change the shipping tax. The political grips that have been taken in this context, I think it's widely accepted for. After all, there are both considerations taken into account in the industry of the future tax regime and that is what is done in relation to the tax credits previously granted to the industry. It is no wonder that other industries question whether it is right to impose a zero tax on the shipping industry when the other industries have a completely different tax regime. There are legitimate objections. In an increasingly globalised world, many industries are exposed to competition from enterprises that may be located in countries that have other tax regimes. However, European taxation and other international taxation have dealt with shipping companies in a very specific way. We were in a situation where there were questions about whether many new start-ups would be registered in tax regimes other than in Norway, with possible ring-effects for Norwegian business. That is why this is a change which can be made in sum if, at the same time as in the Government's proposal, tax credits granted to the shipping industry are taxed. The political balance in this is, I think, very good. So to the question of the Constitution and whether this is a proposal that can be viewed as clearly unfair and unfair. The government clearly believes no to the question, and the bulk of the population thinks clearly no. They have justified it by a thorough observation. What emerged at the hearing – the representative Sanner is fully aware that there is no written record from this hearing, which he was injured to ask the representative Ågot Valle about – I realized that there were two important and important issues that were raised and that were answered in the further committee work on the matter. One concerned whether different types of examples of how this had been done to different shipping companies, which were not presented in the proposal, but which were presented to the Committee in many answers to questions. The second was that it was perfectly obvious that the experts who were called had not paid attention to the relaxations that had been made in relation to what was actually to be repaid, that there were two thirds, not 100 pst., that it was book value, not market value, which is about half, and that it was over ten years and not over one year. There were several other issues as well. The government also invited the Storting to address the constitutional issue, and I fully agree with the conclusion that the majority has reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1270	On April 20, 2002, Jens Stoltenberg had a chronicle in Today's Business, where he wrote the following: ‘Norwegian companies pay zero tax on profits. This is an advantage for the Norwegian shipping industry, and many jobs. But it is also a significant advantage for the owners, who of course also benefit from the fact that the companies they own do not pay taxes." I also confronted the representative Agdestein with this quote. She said that it was right because in 2002 no tax was paid on the reiarlag. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance is talking about a tax credit. One has used circumvention as ‘processed tax liabilities’. Then my question to the Minister of Finance is, how can a tax credit be compiled if one has zero tax? If you have a zero tax, how can you build a tax liability and a tax credit?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1282	I don't think the representative should be afraid that Jens Stoltenberg is okay with what kind of tax regime actually applies until today for Norwegian shipping. He is quite right that there are tax exemptions as long as no dividends are paid or the company withdraws from the scheme. The whole point of this case is: how is it reasonable to abolish an old tax regime when introducing a new and exceptionally favourable tax regime for one industry for the future? It is this assessment of what is clearly fair or unfair, fair or unfair, which means that we have gone in and found a good and balanced solution. I also believe that the Committee's work has provided further information on the table that highlights what has been a major objection. I want to praise the Advance Party. They are now the opposition party that takes the consequences of its position on this matter in the matter of the Constitution. But the vast majority, everyone other than the Progress Party, do not conclude that it is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1291	The security of the Minister of Finance with regard to the shipping tax system is in very sharp contrast to the doubts that have otherwise arisen in the process. I find it useless to discuss that issue with the Minister of Finance. I'd rather go to something we might have a dialogue about, and it's about the relationship between tax and welfare. We are in a situation where there is a great shortage of labour. When the Minister of Finance argues against tax relief at work, she tends to say that we would rather have well-being. Now we know that there is just a shortage of labour that is the biggest threat to growth and growth in the Norwegian economy. It is well documented both through Norwegian research and empirical and international that lower taxes on low and common incomes motivate more work. Getting people from social security to work, getting people from half the time to all the time and being more at work, will be able to give us more well-being. Does the Minister for Finance agree with such reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1300	I agree that insofar as tax motivates work, it is in relation to the low-paid, for high-wage jobs in all-day jobs work a lot anyway. There is no more reserve of labour to take off. However, in relation to low pay, especially in relation to people working part-time, this can be of great importance. So I agree that the direction, if you're going to pursue fiscal policy, is to redeploy from those who earn a lot to those who earn a little. Then, of course, will other things, for example. the cost of a kindergarten — if you increase the rate in kindergartens by NOK 2 200 per year — have the same effect as the tax on employment. Then I understand that the representative Sanner does not want to discuss any more shipping taxes. For the rarity that arises from the Right, Christian People's Party and Left in the setting, there are two things. One is to ask the Minister of Finance to negotiate with one group what they want to pay in taxes. The second thing is that you spend the money. It's "facts on the ground" and "money talk".
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1310	The President will remember the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1313	The rarities to which the Minister of Finance refers are no less strange than what the Government itself did one year ago in the case of the sickness pay scheme. But I'm going back to the proposition. There the government writes: ‘It is desirable for the Storting to make a similar thorough assessment of this theme.’ So this is going to be equal to the red tape. The Ministry of Justice's letter to the Ministry of Finance states: ‘On this basis, it may appear uncertain under what conditions the courts will accept an intervention such as that at hand: [[...]] So it is a concrete assessment. What is the government's concrete assessment? It's written on eight lines that you've assessed the economic impact, that the total tax liability is on a smaller number of companies, and that you're assuming they're doing it. Does the Council of State really think that this is a thorough assessment of one of the most important issues in the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1334	I believe that when the description of the effects has been elaborated through extensive type examples, which the Ministry of Finance has sent to the Committee, and extensive assessments, some of the findings of the hearings have just been answered, which have been called upon to assess the issue of whether it has been clearly unfair or unfair. I believe that through these type examples we have demonstrated that the impact on individual companies is fine to bear for this industry. It must also be involved in assessing what has been submitted to the Stortinget in any legal action – and what assessments the Stortinget has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1339	The left is involved in research policy. The tax debate is also about research policy. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance and the head of the SV on making a wise reorganization to promote research in the government apparatus, but in the view of the Left, it is too bad a contribution to what we are dealing with today. In fact, the Government proposes that research institutions be exempted from property taxes, but it is incomprehensible to us that the other taxation of research institutions should not also be eliminated. We have not least been very much reminded of this when the permanent customers of the Finance Committee, and certainly also of the Ministry of Finance, have met, from Abelia, with the unknown business chief Kyrre Lekve, who has now become political advisor to the Swedish government apparatus. He has to struggle to run around the swing door until the Minister of Finance helps him out of this by offering all the research institutions full exemption. Can we expect this when we discuss taxes and taxes at the next crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1344	As the representative of Sponheim is well known, it is not announced what comes of any tax changes later. I think it was reasonable to propose this change in the tax on wealth, for the Storting, and I think it is a reasonable delimitation also in relation to others who could easily rely on both changes in wealth and income taxes in line with the proposals from the Left and others in today's position. So I just don't think it's unhealthy for any system to include people among their own, with background from SV, which also has background from other environments. That's what makes political positions and views broken. So it's a great enrichment for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1351	I'd like to invite the Council of State to a little bit of principle thinking. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly made the claim that assets are unevenly distributed in Norway, which the Council of State was also involved in its intervention today. If this claim is to be valid, some must have allocated these assets initially. Who does the Council of State think is responsible for the uneven distribution of wealth in Norway, and can the Minister of Finance mention any country where wealth is evenly distributed? In that case, does the Council of State think that this is a country with economic systems Norway should copy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1356	For me, it takes a long time to draw on what many developing countries look at when they look at distribution, namely a Nordic welfare model and the cohesion of the relatively small differences there are between people in Norway and those in other countries. It has to do with the quality of a society, but it also has to do with efficiency and productivity. Then, of course, the disproportionate distribution of wealth is due to long-term distribution policies. Many with the largest assets in Norway have escaped from contributing to the community in an incredibly cheap way. That is why I am very pleased that in this draft state budget we are proposing to increase the tax on wealth and wealth, which is even more distorted than wealth in general, and that we are using the income we receive from such a change to facilitate the taxation of wealth at the bottom. It is a very good policy of distribution. So if you're for the most people, it should be an inspiration for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1363	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1366	First, I just have to say that I agree with the conclusion of the Minister of Finance in the reply to Tybring-Gjedde. It is paradoxical that a party that markets itself to the degrees and says they are to the “most people” is also the party that in this Chamber strongly advocates that it is a good thing that fortunes and values in Norwegian society are so divided, that it is desirable and something it should have been more of. In addition, it is suggested that the tax on wealth should be abolished altogether. This will really mean that with the greatest assets, they will get even better. It is quite special and has been well revealed today. Today's debate, of course, has essentially concerned the proposal for a new shipping tax system and the transitional rules proposed in this respect. Other speakers from the Workers' Party and the other government parties have read about what we think is the right view in this matter. I just want to say for my own part that in the years I've been at Stortinget, I haven't been away in such an extensive handling of a matter. We have gone into it thoroughly through comments, questions to the ministry, own consultation on the matter – and finally a very comprehensive debate here in Odelstinget. I think we should be able to say that the matter has been dealt with in detail and deserves such a great deal. Through my work among the majority parties here in the United Kingdom, I think it is good reason to say that the proposed comprehensive solution is a good proposal, which unites the sum of both nutritional and distribution policy considerations. I certainly mean that. In addition to the shipping tax system, there is a lot to comment on, not least the state budget, which we had on Tuesday, contains a clear turn in the green direction. It's very joyful. We have to have more of that. We're just a little step on the way. But I want to use my short, measured time to comment on a proposal that no one has commented on. This is a matter with which I was familiar one of the very first weeks here at Stortinget, namely the proposal to impose VAT obligations on the commercial rental of leisure property and the provision of such services with a low VAT rate of 8 p.m. from the new year’s beginning. It seems to be a matter of particular interest. However, this is a proposal that is wanted by the industry and which brings many benefits to it, not least to have full deduction rights for input VAT – but only to collect 8 pst. For tax purposes, the proposal also provides lessors of leisure properties with the same competitive conditions as hotels and other accommodation establishments already covered by the law. This was, as I said, one of the first things I was missing as a tax-policy spokesman for the Workers' Party – that is a special title, but there are some who must have it too. I am pleased that this has now been cleared up and look forward to the continuation of work on cleaning up the tax and tax legislation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1377	For the first time in history, the Storting chooses to adopt a budget that is very likely to conflict with the Constitution. It does so knowingly and willfully – not because the nation needs the unconstitutional tax revenues for the care of the elderly, fighting crime, or anything else, but simply because the government is terrified that most people will get the impression that the government is paying taxes to rich shipowners. That shipping companies may now be forced to sell assets or that their bank loans are much more expensive, the Government chooses to ignore. For the Government, obviously political peace is within itself more important than stable framework conditions that ensure long-term value creation along the coast. The Progress Party wants most people to keep more of their own income. For us, it is immoral to regard employees' hard-earned income as a potential source of income for the state. However, the Progress Party agrees that fundamental welfare should be a spice layer among its citizens, but we believe that we politicians should be extremely careful to confiscate people's income on the grounds that we are better able to prioritise the use of this money than the employees themselves are. The Progress Party believes that the reduction of employee income taxes must be an overall goal for any government – moral because it is not our money, ideological because people themselves are best able to prioritize and define their own welfare, political because lower taxes stimulate increased labour supply, and because lower taxes will have a dynamic effect that leads to increased productivity and increased income to the state in the long term. Fees are basically government tools to control people's behaviour and behaviour patterns. However, the fees have become a giant dairy cow for the country, while reducing the importance of the fees. The party of progress is skeptical that the state should direct the use of its own money by individuals, and in particular when this is justified by the need to protect people against their own consumption choices. The State should initially have a role to play in such matters only in cases where the choice of the individual may harm others. Environmental taxes may to some extent be placed in such a category. It assumes, however, that such charges go to the purpose for which they were intended. Fees are also very often unsocial, because they all hit with equal strength, and because disadvantaged groups often spend much more of their income on goods subject to tax. In the light of the above, the Progress Party proposes a tax reduction of DKK 22 billion. The cuts benefit most people, and are particularly targeted at employees with lower and medium incomes. The red-greens claim that tax cuts will have disastrous consequences for the welfare of Norway. That's interesting. Because while the Progress Party chooses to give large tax reliefs to most people, the Government chooses to spend 25 billion dollars on buying an additional 143 million shares in StatoilHydro – this to increase the state's ownership interest from 62.5 p.m. to 67 pst. These are shares that the Government plans to buy from large existing shareholders in the company, people that the Minister of Finance in all other contexts refers to as ‘the most prominent’. The use of this money is decided by the Government to define as a repositioning of the country’s wealth, despite the fact that the ring-fence of the Norwegian domestic economy is fully apparent. According to the Government, the DKK 25 billion injected into the stock market is gone as if it were a spell. The government's share purchase in StatoilHydro for 25 billion SEK shows that the government is willing to spend far more money than the rule of action suggests – only the purpose is important enough! More shares in StatoilHydro are clearly far higher on the Government's priority list than better care for the elderly, defence equipment or construction of good and safe roads. It is a legitimate political priority, but then you also have to be open and honest about it. So while the government chooses to pay shareholders NOK 25 billion, they are eaten off with the satisfaction of knowing, through the state, that they have become even larger partners in StatoilHydro. Surely they appreciate that!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1398	Government parties will use fiscal policy for an active and, in particular, fair distribution policy. We will not, as the Progress Party and the Right, give more to the all, the richest in society. We'll go the other way by giving relief to most people. We're going to create, and then we're going to contribute to the community's ability. I believe that the vast majority of the population understand that we should be able to maintain and expand good Norwegian welfare services both for ourselves and for future generations, we must contribute to the community through taxes and taxes. I'd rather have good community services over money in my own wallet that I spend too often on unreasonable things. I have no objections to the fact that the state is humping a little in my wallet. I am proud that we are grateful for increasing the wealth tax mainly for those with incomes above 1 million. kr, which we once again distribute to most people. We increase the asset tax base from 2007 to 2008. This simply means that 180,000 people who pay taxes on wealth today do not. I'm very happy that 90,000 of them are retired. We also demand the old tax credits of shipping companies by two-thirds. At the same time — and that is important — they are given a future system that is competitive in relation to the schemes in EU countries. This is an overall package where future tax exemptions are clearly linked to the settlement of old tax credits. In the case of the constitutional issue, a thorough investigation has been carried out both in the Ministry of Justice and in the Ministry of Finance. We have had a very broad and thorough discussion in the Committee through regular consultations, a separate consultation with regard to the shipping tax and written recordings, not least from the relevant organisations and associations, such as the Norwegian Shipowners' Association. We have rarely had such a thorough round of a single theme. The government's proposals are politically sound, professionally sound and meet the requirements of being neither unreasonable nor having unfair repercussions. There are many positive changes in the tax regime that come completely under the shadow of the debate on shipping tax. Yes, for a while, while the opposition was on the pulpit, I thought that the entire Norwegian population consisted of shipowners – fortunately I was wrong. Even I think it is positive that the agricultural deduction is increased by over 9 000 kroner. Of course, the party of progress is also here, and it fits in nicely with the view they have on the agricultural agreement. Similarly, it is a gratifying message to the ski industry in Finnmark and Nord-Troms that skiers get better conditions in terms of increased income deductions, and that the percentage reduction in entrepreneurial income in addition to the general deduction is increased from 19 p.m. until 32 pst. It is also a good thing that there is a change in swallowing tax from 2008, which includes: a downward adjustment of the tax rate on income below 12 G. We are making changes which mean that research institutions which receive basic government appropriations and which are organised as foundations should also be exempted from property taxes on assets used in research activities. I am somewhat surprised that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right will have as long a return as the 2001 income year. They are otherwise strongly opposed to retrospectiveness in other contexts — without comparison. Then, in my opinion, it is a good consumer issue in the amendment proposed in 2008 that taxpayers who receive a correct and complete declaration should be exempted from the universal service obligation. This will be a good case for taxpayers and reduce red tape. It surprises me that the Right and Left are going against this. I thought specifically the Right was against public bureaucracy, but here I have obviously been wrong. The government also keeps it by law, with the cleaning up of so-called carpentry taxes, where it now reduces public service charges to the cost itself in the field. The Government proposes changes in fees and sectoral charges corresponding to an annual proceeds of 254 million. kr. The previous government increased the passport fees from NOK 500 to NOK 990 for adults and from NOK 250 to NOK 420 for children. This summer we reduced this to NOK 270 for children, and now we're following up for adults to put it down to NOK 450. It's now a little bit nice to see that we're cleaning up this fee jungle that Right Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss was the architect behind it. In addition, I could have framed a number of charges that we have covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1430	I think I'll start my post by congratulating Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen on the day. It must be a nice day finally to have taken a really hard hold on the industry that is SV's great enemy, namely those who create values in this society. It must be a socialist wishful dream to be able to impose taxes retroactively! It lies in all the socialist thinking. It is not to hide that we in the Progress Party have learned a bit from the Swedish Government. We've seen all the losses they've made, but we've also seen the political grips they've taken. Personally, I have started working on the idea of giving tax credits retrospectively when we get into government. I think Lars Sponheim in his post was about something very important. What's being said in this room today is probably going to be read quite thoroughly by lawyers in the future. When I see the comments made by the government parties, I just want to ask the case rapporteur the following question: Has the government party or individual members received any written input from the government and department after the matter was formally handed over to the Stortinget? Then I ignore what has been open hearings. Besides that, is it that the government party fraction has received information other than that of the rest of the Stortinget? I ask the case rapporteur to clarify that, and I also ask the Council of State to clarify that. They can certainly go along and coordinate their responses if necessary. What I think is sad in this case is that there has been no impact assessment at all of what a change in the shipping tax and tax with retroactive effect means. It is true that many districts around Norway are being hit. There are many shipowners, but it is not just the shipowners, whom Alf E. Jakobsen was in – there are also hundreds of jobs – that are affected. Now it is that many of these shipowners cannot stand up in public space because of the competitive situation, but some shipowners have chosen to do so. On Tuesday, November 20, in the VG, Stig Remøy of the Olympic company presented the situation for its company. He started in 1996 with two empty hands, now has 500 employees and 21 boats. He's spent billions of dollars building a ship. These vessels are built in Norway and have contributed to a large number of jobs. If he had paid ordinary taxes in the same period, he would have paid $95 million. kr. With the retroactive effect of the Government, he will pay 270 million. kr. He has got two different accountancy companies to figure that out. So when Alf E. Jakobsen tries to represent it as if we're trying to pretend that the whole of Norway is made up of shipowners, that's not the case. There are shipowners who employ very many people directly and not least indirectly. I think Alf E. Jakobsen should think about that, among other things. at Christmas if he travels home to Hammerfest, where he can see for himself the creation of value that takes place in his own home environment – simply because the Stortinget has taken some offensive action in terms of Snow White development. Then Alf E. Jakobsen can also think of the fact that the Snow White expansion had been treated by this Greatness, the government parties, which he belongs to, had been opposed. The whole SV was against, the whole Senterpartie was against, and half of the Workerpartie was against the Snow White extension. Then he can think of the value this has brought to his local environment, not to talk about for the whole of Finnmark and large parts of North Norway. A lot has been said about the Constitution § 97. I won't say so much about it, but I think it's quite strange in a matter that has received such a thorough treatment, to see that the trench is dug so deep from the government's side. When several independent experts say that this is probably contrary to the Constitution, I think it is a strange arrogance on the part of the government parties not to be able to make that admission.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1447	The Odelstinget will adopt, later today, new tax rules for shipowners in our country. The new arrangements, such as: provide for a definitive exemption from corporate profits which would be highly competitive compared to those in other countries. Some actors who have commented on the taxation of fleet layers in the last few weeks have clearly overlooked this fact. Today, transitional rules are also to be adopted for the fleets operating within the current scheme and to move to the new fleet tax regime. These rules apply to tax credits that are structured within the current tax regime. The scheme is that two thirds of the tax credits are paid over a period of 10 years. The remaining third shall be allocated to the company to finance environmental actions. There have been some doubts as to whether the proposed transitional arrangement represents a violation of Grundlova § 97. The paragraph simply prohibits the giving of burdensome laws with retroactive effect. In practice, not all back-effects are banned. Retroactivity may be accepted if it is not clearly unwarranted or unfair. What makes this case special is that the effect is for a relatively long period of time. There is probably no case law as far back as the case in question is concerned. We, therefore, who represent the government party, have placed great emphasis on the inclusion of all sides in the assessment. In particular, it has been important to clarify the impact on the industry and the individual fleets. The review has shown that even if the industry is well equipped to cope with the gradual payment of the deferred tax liabilities, it is not possible to ignore the fact that some fleets may have major payment problems. If such problems arise, the tax payments are not the sole cause, but a combination of the payments and other arrangements or events related to the company in question. However, there is a central point that the transitional arrangements are designed in such a way that tax credits are calculated on the basis of the capital held by the companies per. today. Moreover, companies that have not increased their value in the period in which the current tax regime exists will not have latent tax liabilities. This is actually a rather eloquent reasoning in this context. In addition to the assessment of the impact of fleets, we, representing the government party, have been busy looking closely at how the taxpayer’s need for a prudent system has been managed. Having done this review, we have come to the conclusion that the proposed transitional regime cannot be said to be clearly unfair or unfair. We believe that the proposal from the Government provides a balanced solution that satisfactorily takes care of the citizen's requirement for protection under the Constitution § 97 and the Stortinget's freedom of action in relation to being able to give new tax laws. There has been a decisive emphasis on the fact that we cannot see that the political objectives of a well-assessed solution to the problem of nutrition, while at the same time ensuring a high level of distribution, could have been achieved in a different way from what has been proposed here. I note that the opposition does not wish to support the proposal for transitional rules. The point of progress is the only one of the opposition party operating in this area in a clean manner. The party opposes the Government's proposal, and the Progress Party takes the consequences of it in its budget line. The other opposition party, on the other hand, is in favour of a hybrid arrangement. On the one hand, they vote against the government proposal. On the other hand, they add up to use a substantial part of the tax revenue in their alternative budgets. Thus, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, through action, show that they do not reject the assessment made by the majority of the Storing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1466	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1469	Odelstinget is currently dealing with perhaps the most important single element of the Government's maritime strategy. That's why it's perhaps a little funny that the red-green business politicians are totally smiling at their absence. The government has also identified maritime business as an important strategic industry. That's a good analysis. As elected by the country's leading shipping city, it is easy to be proud of Norwegian shipping traditions and Norwegian shipping industry. Therefore, the promise of a maritime strategy seemed interesting, and it seemed perhaps reassuring to many that the Government promised industry a competitive framework. Minister of Industry Dag Terje Andersen was well received in spring, according to the media, from the shipping industry with his political message. What he said was clear and created expectations for the autumn budget. People prided themselves on the Labour Party's leading industrial politicians. They should never have done that. What's happening today in Odelstinget makes the shipping industry look like a rather simple assembly, almost like some workers' party rapporteurs who have put the municipal fund over in the U.S. hedge fund. The proposal for full realisable taxation of the shipping companies, as if they had shut down the whole business and taken out all the money as dividends, or left out of the scheme at their own keel, was received with shock throughout the industry. This is not due to the naivety of the shipping industry, but to the fact that this was a surprising and fundamental breach of trust. There wouldn't be a single company in today's shipping tax system, as Lundtigen described as a success story, if this had been known in advance. The absurd thing about the situation is that many shipping companies would have saved money using the ordinary corporate tax system. Those who flagged out in the 1990s because they didn't take pride in Norwegian authorities can laugh all the way to the bank. I also record that not a single lawyer who has taken part in this debate, whether they have been hired by the Shipowners' Association or engaged by the Financial Committee – except for those who receive their pay from the Government – can vouch for the fact that the proposal complies with one of our most serious legal principles, namely the ban on legislative changes with retroactive effect. It tells a lot about this government's stomach hole in industrial policy that the framework conditions for a strategically important industry must, after all, be clarified through years of legal proceedings in the Norwegian Supreme Court. My prediction is that the state has to pay back the entire amount that is now being collected. Nor do I ignore the fact that this matter will have to come up with a new treatment in the government or at large. So two words about the practical consequences. So here, there's a withdrawal of $14 billion from equity. Money is not taken from rich shipowners, but from businesses along the coast. The amount has to be multiplied several times in order to find the consistency with the ability to invest. Probably this means a loss for coastal industry of up to 70 billion kroner. That'll be a maritime strategy of 100 million. kr to maritime research almost comical – as comical as the Workers' Party and the Centre's promises of a more active industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1482	Before the 2005 elections, the representative Holmås, for whom I am a substitute, became known as the first rapper on Stortinget. I can reassure the President that I shall not go Holmås in industry, but carefully quote his conclusion: ‘My advice, President, is that people have to join, so that the differences in Norway can be cut down.We are tired of right-wing rule and more rich, because it is poor in Norway that pays for it.’ People joined in, and we're still reminded of people's impatience. It is this impatience that develops a society based on justice and solidarity. The alternative is a society based on the strongest right, iced a little charity for decoration. I remember that my grandmother kept the little thing she had of savings, neatly crammed into a big wallet. Whether it was to avoid taxes on wealth or because she was skeptical about the banking system, I'm not sure. A little scepticism for the banking system these days, we can have, some of them each. But grandma's scepticism may have been due to heavy experience with the Nortraship Fund, the shipowners and the poor economy after grandpa put his life into the merchant fleet during the war. What I'm not sure is why Grandma had the money in a wallet. But what I'm sure is that our tax system is one of the safest systems for redistribution between those who have a lot and those who have little. The distribution of taxes on wealth is more equitable when the rich are taxed more. Each of the ten thousand who make over three million. kr a year, with our arrangement taxes on average NOK 27700 more to the community. These additional revenues may be used to lower taxes and increase the deduction for those who have the least. If you are able to set at NOK 350,000 – for a married couple NOK 700000 – you will be released with our investment tax scheme. This means that about 180,000 fewer than today, half of which are pensioners, can have their money in the bank and drop property taxes next year. It's a step in the right direction. Another step is the union quota. By increasing the deduction for this, we show that the bulk of the population will stimulate us to have strong trade unions in the country, both because it provides individual security, and because trade unionism is an essential building block in the social model that builds collective and solidarity solutions. Politics can't just be rhetorical. Politics is a struggle for power and interest. I am proud to be in a majority that promotes the interests of those with the least budget for lobbying. Thank you for the floor, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1510	Norwegian maritime industry is global and exposed to competition. This means that Norway must ensure that the industry has competitive and predictable framework conditions, if we want to have a Norwegian maritime industry in the future. The right is pleased that a new and more competitive tax system is now being proposed for Norwegian shipping companies, that one is now moving towards a new European tax model which is also supported by shipping companies. At the same time, the right is very critical of the transitional regime proposed by the Government. When the Government now taxes companies by 11 years retrospectively, the initial investment capacity of shipping companies is weakened. We fear a deterioration that can help to destroy the entire maritime environment in the North West in the long term. The old tax agreement of 1996, which is now being dissolved, has helped Norwegian non-flagged companies to build up equity that they have invested in new, high-tech and environmentally friendly ships. Today, we can look back on a success story, as many have said before – a success story that has contributed to Norwegian shipyards and shipping companies being at the forefront internationally today, in view of high technology and environmental investment in the construction of new ships. Poorer equity in shipping companies may help to allow international competitors to regain the advantage acquired by Norwegian yards and shipping companies. In the tax regime for the companies, which was adopted in the 1996 Stortinget, the agreement was that the companies would not pay taxes if they did not flag or take dividends. The agreement was that they should reinvest the profits in new ships. It was not in the agreement that an 11 years later would pay triple taxes on the money already invested in new ships. In the autumn, the Minister of Finance has tried to give the impression that the transitional rules for a new shipping tax scheme involve taking money from those who have the most in this country. From my point of view, she speaks against better knowledge. The money that is now withdrawn is not in the pocket of rich shipowners. The money is mainly in ships and values in the shipping companies. In fact, large parts of the money are invested in district work, in corner stone companies and in ships. The impact of the tax charge may mean fewer assignments to Norwegian shipyards and to the supplier industry as a result of a reduction in the ability of shipping companies to invest. In the worst case, there is a risk of a breach of loan agreements and bankruptcy. Nor does the government’s policy in this matter relate to the government’s maritime strategy’s objective of investing heavily in the maritime industry, which has a leading position internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1527	The lot based on the slogan: working for a strong reduction in taxes and taxes, has now two consecutive years underlined that in the context of this main pillar of the programme of the Progress Party, there are developments in the programme understanding. The Progress Party is today the only party against the Government's proposal for increased agricultural deductions. Therefore, new slogans: strong reductions in taxes and taxes — except for farmers. Of the Central Party’s big group today, I was the only one who was involved when today’s shipping tax system was adopted in 1996. I see it as right to say from, from Stortinget's pulpit, that I was the minority in the Central Party's big group. The majority of the group took note of the Government’s transitional arrangement. For my own part, I judge the matter this way based on what I said, among other things. in the debate on 12 December 1996, that we are faced with a proposal for a transitional regime for company taxation of shipping companies which really means retroactive effect. In order for it to be acceptable, there must be strong societal considerations. After my assessment, it is not demonstrated in this case. At the same time, the current company tax regime of 1996 is linked to the tax exemption of shipping companies. In view of this, it is not unreasonable for shipping companies to pay taxes on accumulated profits in the company in order to be exempted from these conditions in the future. Taxing the accumulated profits of shipping companies in 2006 and 2007 is also not said to entail retroactive taxation. On this basis, I support the requirement to pay taxes from the shipping companies that are within the current shipping tax scheme, by 1 400 million. kr for 2008. Finally, the tax treatment of free dwelling abroad. I would refer to the majority of the Committee, which proposes an amendment to the tax law and its provisions of entry into force. As a result of this change, the public concerns of the Committees of State Councils concerned about the impact of the draft government budget for 2008 were addressed, and this was an important change on the part of the majority of committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1544	The majority maintain that there has been a constitutionally careful assessment of the issue. But I think it was quite eloquent in reply to the Minister of Finance that when the undersigned asks about one of the basic premises of the Department of Law to say that this is at all an acceptable return, namely the question of whether the impact on industry has been assessed, the Minister of Finance answers that it has been done through the answers to the questions asked by the Storting and the large-scale groups. That means, then, that at one of the most important points on the part of the Department of Law, the Minister of Finance admits that the proposition is completely inadequate. Then you can characterize the proposition that you want from such a fact. At least it's not. I believe that the conclusion of the proposal is first and foremost this: it was necessary for the red-greens to reach a compromise. That compromise has been reached, even though it has been a long way inside the Central Party, as we understand. But that compromise has been at the expense of a reworked proposal that it would not raise any constitutional doubts about. That is what the majority here must take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1551	The most profiled industrial policy approach in the Government's next year's tax package is to prepare a possible conflict with the rail industry in the Supreme Court. In addition, the Government has really ensured that the expression ‘stability and predictability’ has a very liquid and diffuse content. Mrs. Strait is about to take a look and feel. Many fleet teams – without address Aker Brygge – simply feel cheated. This is a fleeting team that ploughs surplus back to investment and activity, and in this way contributes greatly to bussing and employment in the value-creating part of our country. This further says: We entered the réaar tax system in 1996 in confidence in stability and cleanliness. Those who then flagged out, and who can now enter into the new fleet tax system at no cost, they laugh at us and say, "How stupid they were!" The impact of the transitional rules currently under pressure from the Government may be reduced investment and the deflagration of competences. Investments are already being notified on hold, etc. I had hoped that a multi-territorial government would ensure that the transitional rules of the new fleet tax system had a certain anchor in the maritime industry and a wide anchoring in the Stortinget. From the Christian People's Party's side, we have highlighted a solution that could provide a basis for this, for all experience shows that things that have a broad anchoring in the Storting have a completely different wear and tear strength than things that are pushed through by a scarcely multiple. But instead of accepting this invitation and being constructively seeking a broad settlement in an important matter, we find that representatives of the government and the government party respond with rhetorical twists and attempts to talk away from the heavy principleal and important industrial policy aspects of this case. Had it not been for my natural courtesy, I would almost have been tempted to characterize this as pure red-green power arrogance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1568	The President appreciates courtesy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1571	During the debate, questions have been asked about what the majority is basing their constitutional discussion on. I was in this in my post, and I responded directly to it in the change of line, but I can repeat that the basis for our assessment of the transitional rules is contrary to the Constitution is as follows: a letter from the Department of Justice, hearings with, among other things. Shipowners’ Association and other representatives of the industry, the Financial Committee’s hearing with three jus professors, law department and finance ministers, lawyers’ reports written on behalf of the Federation of Shipowners and, I would like to stress, comprehensive answers to many questions from the big business groups addressed to the Ministry of Finance. Our discussion is based on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1577	I would first like to make a few comments about what the representative, Aasen Agdestein, was into here when she outlined what the assessments were based on. But it's strange that none of these assessments, which have been quite clear, most of them, that this is very doubtful, and that there is much that draws in the direction that this is simply contrary to the Basic Law, has not made any impression at all, and that one is locked in this matter. Many suggest that there has been a performance in this matter, and that a simple thing is just running on and using the same arguments as the Ministry of Finance has made in the past, up and up again, without the matter being explained for that reason. I would also like to remind you that the minority in the Finance Committee wanted us to have two independent distributions, i.e. that the Financial Committee would have two independent reports on this retroactive tax consolidation, eleven years back in time, was unconstitutional. So we didn't get that through, and I think that's because one of the two ways that these things would go, and what would be the conclusion to that. What I actually took the floor for was that the representative Lundtigen wanted a rewriting of the purpose paragraph in our party program. It's a misunderstanding when he claims that we don't give tax relief to the farmers. In our alternative state budget, we have proposed a tax bill of 22 billion kroner. Of course, there will also be tax incentives for farmers. We want a lower tax rate in Norway, but we also want a simpler tax system. That's why we didn't think it was right to prioritize special groups. Instead, we want to give general tax credits. I have to admit that there is one thing we have supported, and there is an exemption from gross taxes on the realization of land in agriculture, but the main taxes are general taxes that benefit everyone, including the farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1586	In the issue of the shipping tax system and the amendments proposed for the Stortinget today, the Ministry of Finance has invited Stortinget to take the discussion of how this is to be understood in relation to the Basic Law § 97, and that is because the Stortinge's own assessment of this may have a bearing on how this issue is perceived. And it's a responsibility that the Ministry of Finance can't bear for the Storting. It is therefore also the case that the majority of the Committee has addressed this issue in detail, in the light of consultations carried out on the basis of the proposal, in the light of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, which is the professional community in Norway that assesses constitutional issues. What I had therefore expected was that the opposition had also gone through and viewed its responsibility in assessing what is the Constitutional Law provisions, and assessing the material that was available – the proposition, all correspondence between the Stortinget and the Government and the Ministry of Finance – that is involved and highlights it, and any other issues that have been assessed. But the opposition has not. The party of progress is in a separate category, they now state that they believe they have evidence that this is clearly unconstitutional. But the rest, namely the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, send this question back to the Government and the Ministry of Finance and say that they regret that they are unable to address this issue that is up to the Storting to assess. On the other hand, they ask the Government ‘to return to the revised national budget for 2008 with a proposal drawn up in dialogue with the industry, which has been further investigated in relation to the Basic Law § 97’, etc. So what the opposition from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the debate has said was a totally useless basis for concluding on the Storting's view of the Constitutional Question, is the same Ministry of Finance that has developed as these parties send the whole question back to! I have to say that I thank you for your trust on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, but we have basically presented our views. That's when I mean that money talk. Because if there was so much doubt about this issue in relation to the Basic Law that the opposition of the Stortinge felt that this could end with no as much as yes, it is strange that you use the proceeds that this tax would bring, with NOK 1.2 billion, a little less than 1.4, that the Government has deposited. Thus, a maximum pragmatic approach has been adopted to the Constitution § 97 and it has not been rejected on a principle basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1595	There is a special situation in Odelstinget at the end of this debate, because so much of the debate has been about the constitutionality of the Government's proposals on shipping taxes. When so much serious is put into this also by the Government, which I believe is good for the debate, it is also whether what I am absolutely sure is a fundamental uncertainty about how this issue will stand if it is to be tried for the judicial system later, which is very likely. The rapporteur has been up and – obviously with emphasis on the same issue – repeated the sources used for the evaluations made by the majority in the Committee. I agree that these are the same sources that the minority have used, which are quite clear that there is a great deal of uncertainty. We are definitely not sure that this is not in relation to the Constitution, but we are absolutely sure that there is great doubt as to whether this is in relation to the Constitution. That's what's central, and it's the same sources that form the basis. I also think it is important, precisely because this can be measured with magnifying glass in future contexts, to find that what is today a scarce minority had a wish in the Financial Committee, as the representative Hagesetter also said, to get an even more thorough assessment of this issue because there was so much doubt, and asked the Financial Committee to facilitate two independent written assessments of the constitutional law. It rejected the same scarce majority of the financial committee that is currently trodden through this matter to do. They refused to get better and more sources to make an assessment of this. That means that the basis we have today is based on the sources set out by the rapporteur. As an alternative to this, there was then a consultation with law-enforcement people, one must say about a few professors and a former Supreme Court judge. I've been to a lot of hearings in this house, but I've never – never – attended a hearing that has so unisonly gone against the Government's position as the one we experienced here. To suggest that this was a bit forward and backward and could be interpreted in two directions I have to say it must be completely wrong, as I understand it. It was so unisonous to see if this proposal is proportionate to the Constitution. If it had become the majority of the minority's proposals today, I actually have the confidence in the Ministry of Finance – I think there has also been considerable doubt in the Ministry of Finance, and I feel convinced that the Minister of Finance has been advised in view of the fact that this is a major process risk in a later context – that one finds a more robust system. I am in order for the shipping companies to be able to pay NOK 1.2 billion in taxes for the next year, and perhaps this year in the future, but based on a robust tax system that is proportionate to Norwegian law and does not have any uncertainty about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1608	There has been a lot of talk about doubt and faith in this matter and the question of transitional arrangements and tax credits and the shipping tax as a whole. I would like to stress that this matter would not have this focus in this debate without there having been different opinions and different assessments and in that context both a critical approach and doubts in all parties. That I experience is the conclusion of this debate. Fortunately, as I experience it, as part of a strong democratic political system, we can have such discussions. As part of an overall solution, the majority of the Central Party Group have joined the content and conclusions of the Commentary on Shipping Tax. We believe that the proposal takes account of: «to a sufficient extent both the citizens' requirements for protection under the Basic Law § 97 and the freedom of action of the Storting in relation to the provision of new tax laws». The group of the centre party therefore concludes that ‘the proposal for a transitional arrangement cannot be considered to be manifestly unfair or unfair’, which has also been concluded in the comment. Finally, let there be no doubt that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this year's budget and the tax proposals that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1622	The regulatory time for this morning's meeting is immediately over, but the President will propose that Odelstinget deal with the final issues on today's map before the meeting is cancelled, so it will not be an evening meeting. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1625	I would like to say to the Minister of Finance that it seems to me that she has now looked firmly attached to the Supreme Court and what is going to happen. I have to say that I react to her now trying to doubt the opposition's independent and thorough assessment. What's the matter with it? Isn't it long enough? Isn't it on 18 sides, like the position? What the opposition has done in this matter is to express doubt. I also said that in my first post. It is then a derailment of both the Minister of Finance and the speakers of the Workers' Party to refer to the coverage discussion. The Supreme Court will not discuss the impact of the opposition parties on the alternative budgets in 2008 when they are to sit down and decide whether this is constitutional or not — never in the world. They're going to see if there's any doubt. And why was there doubt? Were there any opposition parties found along the way? No, no, no. It was the Ministry of Finance's own doubts, it was the presentation by the Ministry of Justice, it was, as Lars Sponheim pointed out, that it was included in the committee that one could get two external investigations. It was rejected by a scarce majority. Then you got the hearing, and the position has, as I see it, very little emphasis on the hearing. But I now hear from both the rapporteur and the finance minister that they are very careful to include it as well. I believe that our doubts are quite right in managing the office as a magnificence representative, if you want to be so solemn, as the representative of Klungland was in a line change here earlier today. We ask that respect, and the solution of sending this back and asking the government to look at it again, I think it was the only right solution, not least given that this concerns an industry that employs 100,000 people across the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1634	It is two very different things to take a question seriously, to explain it thoroughly and to draw a conclusion – and to be in doubt about a question. It is precisely because this is a question which the Ministry of Finance and the Government knew could arise in connection with the treatment of the shipping tax, that it has been thoroughly elucidated, and that the Ministry of Finance has addressed the Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice to obtain their views and conclusions. So it's not like we're in doubt that the conclusion is, but we've come to realize that we have a great duty to the Stortinget to clarify various questions about feedback and Section 97 of the Constitution and the question of «clearly unfair or unfair». And our conclusion is clear, just as the conclusion of the majority in the Storting is clear. What surprises me when the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are as in doubt as they say, is, first of all, that you don't even take what is left, namely that the Storting itself has a duty to consider the question of the Constitution § 97 and this law, and that it is the Storting itself, also the opposition, who has a duty to consider different considerations against each other and to decide what is the outcome of it. And I'm surprised that the way you want to solve your doubts is to send the question back to the Government and the Ministry of Finance to help them explain what we've said, namely, that the Storting's own view of this issue is important in terms of how the matter is viewed. Then I believe that if it is the case that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left have been in doubt, this doubt has benefited from the amendment of the law. Because in any other way, it is not possible to interpret the fact that – in whole or in part – the proceeds that would result from this change are used, and with this justification, from the financial debate and the representative Sponheim: This is going to be adopted in any case, so we use the money. Ergo is also said indirectly that this is going to stand. Because you can't settle your budgets with money you don't think you have. I have to say I am also very surprised that the assignment we were to receive was to come back with a proposal that was drawn up in a dialogue with the industry. It's not exactly a principle way of dealing with the Constitution § 97. But I also wonder: What other groups do Right, Christian People's Party and Left think they should be in such a position in Norwegian society that they will negotiate with the Government about what kind of tax they are going to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1645	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1648	First of all, I think it's beginning to be at the border when a government council is about to start teaching the Storting about how to deal with constitutional issues. I will answer, as it is so very difficult to get what the opposition believes in this matter. What we've asked for is that the government will come back to Stortinget with a scheme where we don't have any doubt about the Constitution §97. We insist that we think it would have been possible, even in dialogue with the industry, to get a plan where x the number of dollars comes into the treasury without having to do it the way the government prescribes. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to ask that the fact that in our alternative budget we use x the number of dollars is taken in income because we are doing well for the constitutionality of this. [[President clubs]] That's not right at all, and we're going to have to ask ourselves that it be used as a basis for the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1653	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1656	I agree with what Hans Olav Syversen has said, and I would also like to stress that we from the Right are very much responding to the fact that the Council of State is bringing this kind of teaching in the Stortinget. There is no reason to claim that the Right’s budgeting at this point is an approval of the interpretation of the Constitution by the Government and the Ministry. We'd like to discuss containment and how it's been handled, but I think it belongs to a different debate than the constitutional discussion we're now in. I also have to add that it is not unusual for the government to have dialogue with different industries. At least this government has an unusually good dialogue with some industries. Maybe you should have had it with others. Otherwise, the Council of State said in its last post that the matter was very well explained by the Government. No, it wasn't very well lit. At the hearing held here in Stortinget, the department’s production was picked from one point to another. It was also underlined by one of the professors that at the point after point, the Ministry of Finance's presentation was for one-sided. If the Minister of Finance himself had not come to that recognition during the process, she might not have felt the need to give as comprehensive answers as was subsequently given to the Workers' Party's big group. Finally, I would like to say that when we have dealt with the matter in the way we have done, it is, as the representative Svein Flechten has stressed, because we are in strong doubt – we have strong doubts as to whether this is in line with the Constitution § 97, and it is a good advice when you are in doubt, to spend some longer time. That is why we believe that the matter should be addressed to the revised national budget, so that the discussions that are now being given could be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1668	I'm going to be careful in my post to try to end the debate, but I want to clarify something that I think is central to this matter. It is that the Ministry of Finance has asked Stortinget to do his job in relation to assessing whether this is under the Constitution. After that, we have sent a number of questions, had hearings, received input and evaluated it through discussions and dialogue between representatives as elected representatives. So we have come to the conclusion that the Storting evaluates it so that this is within the Constitution. If you were to, e.g. as the Christian People's Party and the Right now say, negotiate to a result that would be adopted in revision, with whom would a negotiator? Every shipping company is a legal entity of its own. Should a dealer negotiate with the Shipowner's Association and make an agreement with them, any shipping company could still sue. You cannot negotiate with the Constitution, and I feel that the opposition has not taken a stand. Fortunately, the majority has done so, the majority who are to adopt what is to be adopted, hopefully, when we are to vote. It's our job as elected representatives to decide on difficult issues. I had hoped that the opposition might have admitted. Then I have not included the Progress Party, which has assessed this, made its job and reached a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1673	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 65]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1686	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3. The President will draw attention to the fact that she has had the floor in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 35 of the Rules of Procedure, further consideration of case No. 3 is left to another president. The President hereby requests that this provision be waived so that she may direct the vote in this matter as well. No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1700	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1763	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 4 shall be replaced by the following:The Ministry may grant exemptions from the requirement to relate to a student relationship, where the institutions have other satisfactory welfare arrangements and the consideration of the student co-operation structure so requires.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1857	There is an alternative proposal from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 10 shall be replaced by the following:All students of educational institutions linked to a student relationship: [[(see section 4.4). § 4)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1925	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1935	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1983	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e1993	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2001	During the debate, 42 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 5, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 6-9, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the Right and Left motion No. 10, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by Mr Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 11, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 12 and 13, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 14-21, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 22 and 23, from the Svein Fleet, on behalf of the Right and the Left, proposals Nos. 24–26, from Svein Flätten on behalf of the Right-wing Draft No. 27 and 28, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 29–34, by Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, no. 35-42, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left In order to reduce the number of votes in this case, the President will propose a reunited voting order. This means that if minority proposals fall, the proposers will then support the vote on these paragraphs. This has been discussed in advance with the proposers. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. The vote will be arranged as follows: The vote is first on all minority proposals, where we start with the smallest fraction, and then we vote on the motion for a resolution of the vote, where we start with all the laws that are supposed to be adopted unanimously. Here, the President will first take up all the paragraphs which different fractions want to vote against.So all the paragraphs of the Tax Act that are assumed to be unanimously adopted are voted on.So the remaining laws, the letters A, C, D, F, G, M, O, P, and Q, give rise to those who want to vote against also here. Finally, the law's title and the law as a whole are voted on. – No objections have been raised to this, and this will be the case. It is then first voted on the proposals No. 35 to 42, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2221	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29–34, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2344	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27 and 28, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2422	It is voted on the 24-26 proposals, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2500	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2556	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–21, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2722	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the right, the Christian party, and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2788	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Law No. 19 June 1969 66 on value added tax is amended as follows: 14 the second sentence shall be replaced by the following:The French Republic shall also include the rental of the battery for vehicles as referred to in the first sentence.IIThe change under I shall enter into force immediately, with effect from the 2008 income year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2813	We'll skip proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party and the Right, as this proposal will be addressed to alternative voting against the vote later. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–9, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2929	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: point 1 of the first paragraph of Section 5-15 is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] 1. the benefit of the use of the Defence Service Housing and of the use of accommodation in the place of employment abroad. III Amendment I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2008 revenue year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e2958	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e3040	The proposal for a decision, the letters B, E, H, I, K, L and N, will then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e3354	There will now be a vote on J, which concerns the tax law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4233	The first sentence of the first sentence and the third sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 8-1 of Section VI shall be deleted. The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4247	The first paragraph of Section III of Section 18-3 is then added to the third paragraph of Section 18-5, the second paragraph of Section 18-3, new point (c), as well as the third paragraph of Section XI. The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4261	The first sentence of Section VI of Section 10-12, first paragraph of Section 10-31, first paragraph of Section 17-1, first and second paragraphs of Section 17-10, first paragraph of Section 17. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4276	Paragraphs 10 to 64, the title, and Paragraphs 10 to 64, above Section VI, Section 2 to 38, third paragraph, point (a) and beyond, up to and including the first sentence of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of the first sentence of the first paragraph of the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 4 to 13. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4290	The first paragraph of point (c) of Section 7-2 and the second sentence of the second sentence of Section 7-10, as well as VII, shall be added to Article VI. The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4304	It is votered over I and IV, as well as VI § 18-3 tenth paragraph and finally X. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4318	The President here would like to vote alternately between proposal No. 10 from the Party of Advancement and Right, and § 2-36, fifth, sixth and seventh paragraphs of Section VI of the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4348	The other Roman numerals and paragraphs under letter J are taken up for voeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4358	So it's going to be over the remaining letters, and we're going to start with letter A.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4457	It is first referred to in § 47b nr. 1, New 47d and New 47e. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4471	It goes over the rest of the letter A.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4593	The second and third paragraphs of Section II, the third paragraph of Section 11, the second paragraph of Section 46a, the second and third paragraphs of Section 52, and the second paragraph of Section 54 are deleted, and the fourth paragraph of Section 54 of the VAT Code becomes the second paragraph. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4607	It goes over the rest of the letter C.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4657	It shall not be counted against II. The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4671	It goes over the rest of D.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4883	It is first votered over II § 4-2 nr. 2nd@item: inlistbox Right and left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4897	It is then votered over in § 3-6 nr. 1, New § 4-13 and § 10-6. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e4911	It goes over the rest of the letter F.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e5117	The second sentence is first added over the second sentence of III, as well as the second sentence of §3-2 and then even the seventh paragraph of 5-2, and the current sixth and seventh paragraphs become the eighth and ninth paragraphs. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e5132	So it goes over the rest of G.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e5521	It is votered first over M I new § 5-13 a and on even § 5-16, O I § 10-6 nr. 1st sentence, P I § 5-16 first paragraph and Q. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e5535	It goes over the rest of M, O, P and Q. The President will draw attention to the fact that there is an error in Section 11-1 paragraph of the Settings. 1st sentence under M. In the fourth line it should read: §§ 10-40 to 10-48, and not §§ 40 to 10-48. So a 10 was out of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e5550	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e5560	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-29-lower.ana.ud2334e5599	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
