ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e42	It was not my opinion that this matter should be extended to the evening meeting, but when I now once asked for the word, it was with the background that both the Council of State and Inga Marte Thorkildsen made contributions that are really messy when they describe the policy of the Progress Party. The Council of State said that the size of the wallet should not be essential for good care, and Thorkildsen said that with the policy of the Progress Party there could be a class distinction in health and care. This class distinction is already present in Norway in the area of health and care. This class division has been there for the last 20 years. All those with high education, good jobs and high wages or who have only good advice have used care and health services abroad for a long, long time. Those who are in line in Norway today are most people who cannot afford these services at an early stage. It is precisely the Labour Party's policy that has led to these social divisions between those who can allow themselves to buy in the queue, and most people who have to accept to wait, among others. through the sickness pay system. This is correctly seen from a socio-economic holistic perspective. The main reason for this is precisely that the resources in the area of health and care cannot be used. The second reason is that you don't want to give those who need it legally binding rights. Not wanting legal rights takes patients out of power, and it strengthens the power of bureaucracy. The Progress Party has been promoting this type of proposal for a number of years, and we are doing so today. What the government wants is an offer to those who need a health or care service, by allowing bureaucrats, who do not know the individual's wishes, to decide about the individual. This is an implementation of an elitist thinking where individuals are deprived of all rights, and the rights and power are transferred to bureaucrats. It's this power the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party want to keep, because they think they know better and can make wiser choices than the individual human being. What's wrong with that Mrs. Hansen or Mr. Larsen is given an opportunity to opt out of a health or care service they are dissatisfied with? It's sad that someone thinks they've been given a gift to decide over and on behalf of others, when the individual can make a choice himself, especially considering that it's 70 pst. of the elderly, who are able to make their own choices on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e57	No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. 1 and 2. [[See pages 2409 and 2411]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e74	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e90	No one has asked for the floor. So we're going to go to case number. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2412]] The President cannot see that the Minister of Church and Culture is present, but has been informed that the Council of State is in a state, so we can only wait. – Then the state councils have found out, and we can start handling case no. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e116	Cultural experience has a health promotion effect. We are activated, gladdened, provoked and/or engaged by participation in and experience of culture. Both body and mind draw nourishment from it. The red-green government is betting on culture. The cultural promise is one of the major priorities for which this government will be remembered. Nevertheless, the small sizes we're talking about in relation to the state budget as a whole. While total expenditure on the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church budget is well worth DKK 7 billion for the current year, the Ministry of Health and Health budget is now well-balanced with more than DKK 110 billion – that is before reported hospital deficits this year as well. Of the other DKK 110 billion, DKK 1.2 billion are allocated to public health measures. Thus, efforts for prevention and health promotion in the health sector are low in relation to the cost of treatment. It's not sure it's a wise priority, from a long-term perspective. I, and a lot of people with me, believe that we would be served with a much stronger focus on how to promote public health by establishing cooperation and partnerships between cultural and health services. But before I go into it, it's important for me to stress that I don't want to see society's contribution to culture and voluntary organisational life primarily in relation to the value we can derive from cultural life in other sectors. Of course, efforts in the fields of art, culture and the work of non-governmental organisations must be judged primarily on the basis of the intrinsic value of the cultural action. But it's also the way that when something that's valuable in itself, in addition to giving sprinkling effect in other areas, we have to know how to use it. Culture strengthens health, both physical and mental. The joy of the experience of art and culture, of participation in voluntary work and of social participation in the meeting places provided by cultural life all have a health-enhancing effect. These are opinions I also share with Stortinget. During the review of the previous government's Culture Communication, Culture Policy until 2014, the Culture Committee states: ‘The Committee believes it is important to strengthen research on the health perspective of cultural policy A better knowledge of the relationship between mental or physical health and access to cultural services can provide good input to cultural engagement in general, and the formulation of cultural policies in the country, state or municipality in particular.’ [[...]] In the same position, the Committee refers to the pilot project ‘Cultural Health Care’ carried out by Norwegian Cultural Councils in cooperation with the Ministry of Social and Health. The project was completed in 1999, but continued with the addition of the National Cultural and Health Focal Point to Levanger and the establishment of a National Advisory Group on Culture and Health. This period was from 2000 to 2003, but the Committee asked that the work of the National Advisory Group be continued along with the field in cooperation with the departments concerned. I am uncertain whether this has been followed up. Through cooperation at the Nordic Council, the need for more knowledge of the importance of cultural life for health promotion is also addressed, with special emphasis on the voluntary sector. In a proposal from the Central Group, the Nordic Council of Ministers is asked to set up a project that helps to develop a common Nordic culture strategy as a health promotion measure, including: by pooling research-based knowledge in this area. In November 2006, the Minister of Culture opened a large cultural and health conference in Oslo – Culture-beet mental 2006 – and it is nice to be able to show that a representative from the Ørebro county council enthusiastically travelled home and incorporated culture-health bet in their regional plans with direct reference to the NatureCultural Health Foundation, NaKuHel, which we are so lucky to have located in Akershus. There is therefore a broad commitment at different levels and across the Nordic region to developing knowledge and action in the field of culture-health. In the Nordic region, the voluntary sector is a central resource for the organisation of cultural experiences and the cultural self-activation of citizens. Voluntary organisations are key social actors in our Nordic tradition. In addition to its membership activities, organisations in their communities are contributing to increased quality of life and better health. I think it's time for us to engage in a closer dialogue with this organisational resource to put up more systematic work on promoting public health. Through the Ministry of Health’s public health efforts in cooperation with the county municipalities, through the Cultural Walk, which is the Ministry of Culture’s commitment to activating our elderly, through the Centres of Volunteering and through cooperation with the newly formed overarching of the organisation’s life – Freedom Norway – we have a number of instruments to play on. The Soria Moria Declaration promises a new and comprehensive voluntary policy, including: through the further development of volunteer centres. I think many municipalities would be well served to leave responsibility for the organisation of volunteer centres to the local organisation. The NaturalCultureHealth network has the prerequisites for being a superstructure and resource source for such a commitment. From Akershus, I also know associations of organisations that have a strong willingness to participate in the health promotion work. Akershu Music Councils, National Colleges, NatureCultural Health and Mental Health in cooperation with counties and municipalities have presented a set-up for cultural dissemination and cultural activity for the elderly. For the first time, through outreach activities aimed at institutions and elderly centres, they offer regular contacts through 1 100 events, the establishment and operation of 12 choirs for the elderly, as well as other projects. There are local choirs, theatre groups, cultural schools, etc. which will form the backbone of the offer, but by way of further organisation, a county-wide and regular offer is ensured for all those who wish to use it. I hope the project succeeds. We need this kind of initiative to put participation in voluntary cultural work into our own joy and development into a wider context, where the activity benefits more. One thing is the experiences of residents and users of our elderly institutions will get, but perhaps as important is the possibility of creating new meeting places and building bridges over the generation gap – health promotion work. I hope the Ministry of Culture in its work, not least in the announced voluntary service, will contribute to increasing the political focus on culture as a health promotion. I also hope that the Council of State will ensure that the voluntary organisations' ability to do their job in this work is stimulated, both by taking initiatives for cross-ministerial focus on the voluntary sector's place in public health work and through their own actions. There are opportunities to reap large profits for relatively few kronor if the opportunity is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e149	I fully agree with the representative Dagfinn Sundsbø that the voluntary sector is a central resource in society. Having the breadth of sports, outdoors, music, choir, dance, theater, public education and humanitarian work provides quality of life and better health. Therefore, the Government prioritises the development of government voluntary policy for the benefit of voluntary organisations. The representative Sundsbø raises questions about whether, in my work of developing a new and comprehensive voluntary policy, including further developing volunteer centres, I will contribute to increasing political attention to culture as a health promotion and, in this context, to promoting proposals that stimulate the participation of voluntary organisations in promoting public health. The answer to the question is yes. Arts, culture, sport and volunteering make society richer and contribute positively to human quality of life, community and development. Let me begin by stressing that the representatives of Sundsbø are concerned with the responsibilities of several departments. Grants and interactions with non-governmental organisations are seen in the context of the sectoral policy objectives for which each department is responsible. Therefore, sectoral responsibility for voluntary activities in individual departments lies with the Ministry of Culture and the Church, while the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture has responsibility for coordination in the field of government voluntary policy, in addition to sectoral responsibility for voluntary organisations in the field of culture and sport. Sector responsibility for health lies with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This does not, of course, mean that there is no cooperation between the department responsible for the sector and other departments which are actors in the area in question. This is the recently submitted St.meld by the Government. No 20 for 2006-2007, a good example of the national strategy to address social health inequalities. The Communication provides guidance on how the Government and the Ministries will work to reconcile social health inequalities over the next decade. The Communication highlights that many factors contribute to the creation and maintenance of social health differences. The context is complex, but it is established that there are essentially social conditions that affect health and not the other way around. The policy focus on cultural and organisational participation in a health-promoting perspective is highlighted in the Communication with increased emphasis. In key areas such as safe growth conditions and equal opportunities for development and targeted inclusion efforts, cultural and organisational participation has been highlighted as important instruments. Participation in cultural activities and voluntary organisations is also important for other societal goals such as learning and creativity, health and integration and inclusion. People who have good experience in the activities of organisations in growth are also more active in adulthood. It is therefore particularly important to focus efforts on children and young people. Large differences in participation in cultural life have been demonstrated. Low-income individuals use much less than other publicly funded arts and cultural services. Groups with high income and long-term education are more active than groups with low income and short-term education in non-governmental organisations. Children from low-income households participate to a lesser extent in leisure and school activities than other children and young people. This is a challenge both for administrations and for cultural and organisational life, and it is a challenge for increased cooperation. Our goal is that everyone should have an equal opportunity to participate in cultural and organisational life. Poor economy and social exclusion increase the risk of ill health and early death, while social support and good social relations are conducive to health. For families with poor finances, participation in organisational and cultural life can be too expensive. As a result, children may be excluded from social arenas. Traditionally, children meet art and culture with their parents. This gives us social differences as to who uses the cultural offer. The cultural school system, with the wide range of arts and culture it offers, makes social affiliation, ethnicity and geography not so much decisive for which cultural expressions children meet. Cultural services at school provide a cultural ballast for everyone and promote the use of cultural activities later in life. In 2007, some high-school pilot projects will also be launched to expand the cultural school bag target. Cultural schools are also an important recruitment venue for future actors in the different arts, both amateurs and professionals. Schools make live music and other artistic expressions available to a wide audience in large and small communities. An open and inclusive cultural school offering space for everyone who wants to enter will eliminate differences by giving room for more people to develop important aspects of themselves. Unfortunately, the previous majority of the population, the government parties at that time, with the support of the Progress Party, removed the earmarked support for the cultural schools, removed the roof of the parental payment. We see that thousands of children are still in line, and prices are rising sharply in many municipalities. This allows fewer people to experience the offer to go to a cultural school, thus increasing differences in this area as well. Youth cultural maps provide cheaper access for young people aged 16 to 20 years and could counteract social differences in cultural use. The Youth Cultural Card Test Scheme is being continued and strengthened in 2007. Several counties are in the process of testing different alternatives. Freedom centres are at the heart of the inter-pellant's articles. Voluntary centres are diverse and important meeting places for voluntary action. They are the arenas for participation and belonging in the community; they are the arenas where people can participate without necessarily being part of the organized volunteer work. Voluntary centres have a wide range of social care measures, as well as cultural, recreational and community activities. Voluntary centres contribute to the creation of a good and living local environment and to the coordination of local involvement, social responsibility and culture. Centres have gone new ways to increase participation in voluntary activities. An active and inviting attitude and concrete work has produced results. There are more residents, social workers and unemployed in volunteer centres than in traditional voluntary organisations. Cooperation with teams, associations, communities, public authorities and individuals is central. Connecting contacts, developing networks and connecting those with something in common are important and useful tasks to stimulate and develop local voluntary activities, while having a positive impact on the participating individuals. The Ministry of Culture and the Church grants up to 20 new volunteer centres this year, in addition to the 11 new ones that we contributed to after the government change in the autumn of 2005, in the 2006 budget. It will stimulate the development of more volunteer centres, greater breadth and greater diversity in the centres. The sport movement is one of the most important actors in promoting public health in Norway. The main sport policy instrument to ensure a good framework for sport is grants to sports facilities. Special neighbourhood installations, highways, loops and the like. is important for the self-organised activity and facilitates physical activity for several groups. The Ministry of Culture and the Church administers a scheme of grants for inclusion in sports, the major urban project, as it was previously called. The system targets sports teams in urban areas with special challenges related to recruiting children and young people. The purpose of the arrangement is to include groups that until now have little participation in the ordinary activity offers of the teams. The target group is children and young people facing economic or cultural barriers to participation in organised sport. In particular, measures to recruit immigrant girls are being taken. The Ministry of Culture and the Church this year strengthens the system of inclusion in sports and allocates 8 million. kr through the 2007 scheme. Over the past 10–15 years, there has been extensive development of the use of cultural instruments in health settings in the Nordic countries and Norway. Work has reinforced the assumption that cultural activities help to promote people’s ability to master everyday demands and are a resource for public health work. The cultural walking stick is a concrete example of increased recognition of culture as an instrument of health promotion and well-being. The walking stick shall provide cultural services to older people who do not use the ordinary cultural offer to the same extent as others. It turns out that when people reach retirement age, they use cultural services much less often than when they were younger. It could be because your health fails, because you don't like going out in the evening or it can have economic reasons. The cultural walking stick is a collaboration between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church, and we are currently working on defining the content and organisation of this scheme. The cultural health project, which was launched by the Norwegian Cultural Council in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health at the time, has been completed. A lot of work was started in the municipalities and is still active. The conclusion of the project was that commitment to culture has health promotion effects. As Minister of Culture, I was delighted to give the opening talk at the National Conference on Culture and Mental Health, which was held in November 2006. The conference gave a number of examples of how culture can prevent health problems, and a convincing result was demonstrated by a number of methods in which culture played a central role. Such conferences are important because they contribute to increased attention, increased knowledge and experience dissemination and, in particular, increased awareness of cultural-health links. Therefore, conferences are organised in both 2007 and 2008, and I am positively prepared to promote these conferences. The representative Sundsbø addresses the question of volunteering's self-value. The government sees that volunteering has a high self-esteem in addition to helping to achieve other key societal goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e198	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It gave a clear impression that the department both understands and works according to the lines I was encouraged to take into account both in the volunteering and in view of the work done in the Ministry of Culture, in the context of how it works overall in a health-promoting context. The Council of State indicated that the departments, each of them, have a responsibility, of course, to see how their work works in a health-promoting context and can also play a role in cultural life, but he also said that the Ministry of Culture will take on a coordinating role in this respect. I think it's actually important, because there's something politics, management, social life, can bear too much impact, is that we work sector by sector, and that we work to solve tasks within the framework for which our sector has a responsibility. But that's seeing the context, seeing the sectors in a larger context and seeing how activities, activities, activities, also have an impact in other circumstances, which might make us get more back for the effort, more for each invested crown. In fact, I believe there is a need for the Ministry of Culture to take on its coordinating role and to see itself as the contracting entity for the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Family and other departments, given that Norway is a country in which the voluntary sector is incredibly strong, has enormous resources and can thus make a formidable effort if it is given only working conditions that will release the effort. I guess that's how some of us are willing to go far to participate in organizational life if it gives us pleasure. And if it can also be useful for others, we just see it as positive. But if volunteering as a health promotion is primarily an appeal to just make an effort for the sake of society without having to enjoy it yourself, I think it might be lacking. So looking at culture, which is initially a pleasure for one's own experience and for pleasure for one's own participation, also in a context where it benefits others, matters to others and is important to society in general, is what is going to happen. That's where cultural management can make an effort that we'll need to get more out of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e207	I believe the inter-pellant and I fully agree on the potential of exploiting volunteering in a broader societal perspective. At the same time, as the interpellant also stresses, it is very important to recognise the autonomy and freedom of volunteering. It is free, and it must be willing, and it must be based on the members' and the active's own choices in relation to what you want to do. Because it's the very essence of volunteering that it exists for nothing other than what the members and the active themselves want. It shall be their self-initiated objectives and activities that are governing, not the framework conditions of society. That is why we have, for example: an objective of the Soria Moria declaration to reduce earmarked actions and to provide larger sums of money on free framework transfers in support of volunteering. My job as a volunteer minister is to create a framework for the entire broad field of volunteering and to be an active partner for all my government colleagues in relation to the general policy of volunteering and how we can stimulate and facilitate increased volunteering. The daily contact between the different sectors is provided by the different departments of the department. They work closely together and get a lot of input and good advice. Often we see that, among other things, new care services arise first in the voluntary sector, because they are the first to discover and meet a new need, and the public is becoming stronger and stronger. Crisis centres are such a historical example of volunteering that first addresses a problem area. We're going to make it happen, and then, of course, we're going to enjoy the great social significance of volunteering. I very much believe that the preventive society, the society that facilitates the quality of life of active members who thrive, is much better, but also much more reasonable for a welfare society than the repair society, where you get the problems, and then you have to go through the health care system or through the justice system or care for drug users or whatever it is, repair the damage caused by a society that doesn't work as well as we could otherwise. The voluntary service can carry out a formidable task, but, as I said, it must be done on the voluntary service’s own premises. So I think that in particular what we do on volunteer centres has a great effect in that it's an activity that you can have access to over a very, very low doorstep. It's easy to participate, one doesn't have to commit to being a member of a board, sitting as a boxer, or being part of the organization. One can only put up with his or her work forces in specific tasks. It's a meeting place, a level playing field between those who take a roof, and those who get a handshake, which I think is very valuable also for bridge construction in a diverse society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e218	Voluntary work and voluntary activity constitute a very important contribution to the construction of society. In the Soria Moria Declaration, volunteering is a great place. Under the heading ‘A New and Comprehensive Voluntary Policy’, the Government draws up the main perspectives for voluntary work. There are some important steps that can be taken to make voluntary work and activity visible. The starting point is to view volunteering as a separate sector of society, and from this it is committed to describing the nature of volunteering in a modern society. The Soria Moria Declaration points to several aspects: the possibility of developing a voluntary register, voluntary centres, the importance of looking at the VAT regime for the voluntary sector, which is currently perceived as being unfair by many, and the adaptation of legislation and grant schemes, in order to capture the various forms of organisation and also the more loose forms of association that exist within the voluntary sector. One of the first governments that Stoltenberg did after the election was to take back the cut that the Bondevik government had made in the Freefonds scheme and in the adult training funds. It was important and loving action for the voluntary sector. The government, as also mentioned here, will follow up on this with a separate announcement of volunteering that is now coming in the spring session. The representative Sundsbø is concerned with seeing the voluntary sector — and cultural activities in particular — in a health perspective. There's an important angle to voluntary engagement. We know that well-being through experiencing and getting something together with others is of great importance to the quality of life of the individual. I have soul as a professional artist for many years working together with actors in the voluntary field of culture and have thus experienced with my own experience the commitment being shown. So I've also had a lot of cultural cooperation with institutions of different kinds. And then it's not hard to see the close relationship between quality of life, culture and health. This is a context that is probably not fully recognised in our country today. Older people’s centres, hospitals and other institutions have an unsolved potential for cultural, creative and life-provoking cultural experiences. And the voluntary sector, not least within culture, could be a very important tool for meeting the need for cultural experiences that exist in people, no matter what the situation of life. Today, the Storting has dealt with the communication of care, where the cultural perspective appears, among other things. through the Cultural Spaserstick, a cultural effort aimed at the elderly. And whether you like the name or not – as the representative Inge Wohnung made a point of earlier today – this is a great move. The thinking behind this initiative captures some of the intentions behind the Sundsbø interpellation. However, the inter-pellant is even wider and sees voluntary involvement in a preventive perspective, preventive in the sense that investing in creativity, joy and activity can bring health-enhancing effects to the broad society of the people. This is an important perspective to have on voluntary involvement, without, for that reason, reducing a view in which cultural self-activity is important primarily by virtue of its own seas and does not necessarily need to be justified by other, external reasons, which were also the subject of the interpellant. But it's now like, "everything is related to everything." As humans, we need to create, and create together with others. It makes us freer and happier – and perhaps in the next round fresher. Perhaps the way to go, as the interpellant was going on, is a clearer and more committed cooperation between organisations, policies and administration. And then it's important that we have a volunteer that reaches out to the many, the unorganized, those who are more concerned with activity than purpose and – not least – to people from other cultures, who may often feel that the threshold of the voluntary community is sometimes too high. It is therefore a task to link work on the ‘2008 Year of Cultural Diversity’ to the strategy for voluntary Norway to be included in the voluntary service, now presented in spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e231	First, I would like to say that it is good for the representative Sundsbø to address this issue, about volunteering, even though we now have a proposal for a representative to be discussed in the committee – we are going to have a large volunteer seminar on Thursday, and we are getting a volunteer message not so long. I guess a good thing can't be discussed often enough. There is no doubt either that the voluntary sector promotes public health, first of all the sector directly engaged in health promotion activities, such as sports, outdoors and dance. But also the second part of the sector promotes public health, it includes, gives its members the sense of being seen, and builds social relationships, which are very important in today's societies, how many are characterized by both time and isolation. Voluntary teams and organisations provide children and young people with a sense of mastery and self-reliance. I'm so lucky to be on the Culture Committee, and I'm just as fascinated every time we're on the committee tour around the country and see what kids and young people actually do, and the joy they're doing. Even better to see the pride they show when they succeed. There is little doubt that the voluntary sector helps to strengthen the psyche of children, young people and adults, and that mental health is an important health factor, there is no discussion about it either. Therefore, it is important that the economic framework conditions are in place. I believe that if the voluntary sector is to survive in a very hectic society, it must have predictable framework conditions. It worries me. We know that from 1 July this year, very many voluntary teams and organisations will lose their income without any compensation in any way. And when you think, as the Progress Party does, that volunteer teams and organisations do a very unique job in today's Norway, you should ensure predictability of the work they do. I am incredibly provoked by the Council of State when he talks about what the previous government – together with the Advance Party – did, and tells us from this pulpit about how the queues grow at the cultural schools. The government should do something to get the queues down rather than point to how the queues grow. The government has now been in office for 1 and 1/2 years and has a full opportunity to do something. Instead, it sits passively, watching the queues grow. It's not a very impressive job. Very many of the voluntary teams and organisations are driven by fire companies, who have done everything they can to activate and apply for funds to run flea markets and lotteries to get the wheels to walk around. The fireplaces are too much taken as a matter of course and not appreciated, but when you now lose the income from 1 July and have to go new rounds to ensure that children and young people have an offer, I am not sure that the fires are more powerful. Maybe fires aren't anything else than what you're talking about in 20–30 years? As I said, we live in a hectic society, when, unfortunately, time has become a scarcity factor for many. It is then important to take care of the fires and make it easier to operate teams and organisations. It does not help if they are working on health promotion if they themselves are working unhealthy because of their work. I hope that Minister of Volunteering Giske will provide an economic framework for the voluntary teams and organisations that not only relate to a number of applications and forms, when he submits the announced volunteering message, so that we can ensure a flourishing Freedom Norway even after 1 July 2007, which can help many people in Norway to engage in health promotion activities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e246	I would like to thank Mr Sundsbø for raising the issue. This really invites many debates. I'm not going to take all the aspects, but I want to get into a couple. For those of us who have been so lucky enough to grow up in small communities, it is easy to understand what volunteering is about, because the contexts become so clear. To me, they have been so clear that I think I can say that if the volunteer and the activity had not been there, and the firemen had not done the job they did when I was young, I would never have come here on the Storting. It's the volunteer that often in community communities captures what the public might have done, but they don't have the opportunity to do. It captures, and it also sees things in a different way and is often much more suitable for working. In Norway, the voluntary sector is large. When we talk to people in other countries, it seems that Norway is special, but also other parts of Scandinavia, are connected in a special way. Norway is an association country, with very many members and selfless activities for both community and community. These are qualities that we have to take care of. However, part of the activity that some of these associations are doing today, I think maybe should have been the task of the state directly. But there's another, more fundamental discussion that we may not get taken in this round. Some of the activities – one might say – are absolutely necessary for society to be cared for. Other types of activities are kind of surplus activities, which we could manage on our own without, but which enrich us in a very good way. You use culture a lot, and then you invite a debate about why we're going to use culture -- what we often call some kind of instrumental justification for cultural life. I'm not very happy about it. I believe that the representative Sundsbø and I fully agree on the effect of this. At the same time, I believe that the main reason for the cultural life and the stimulation of what is in Norway today can be justified in culture itself, and we probably agree on the effects. But I don't want to bind up the will to use cultural resources. I want to increase the understanding that they should stand on their own feet and not be justified by social policy. Then we have organisations, like The Blind Alliance, which performs absolutely necessary tasks for large groups, and we know that they do not have the framework conditions that they might have. For me, there are clearly governmental tasks they carry out, and for some such organisations I would like to have a public foundation at the bottom. So, for example, the voluntary organisation took care of the surplus and did what could be the overcapacity horn: to improve the quality of things. Today, we see everything that happens in the context of crisis centres and incest centers. I think that just such institutions are better than public hospitals, institutions, county offices, and what it might be, to capture what's actually happening -- see what's happening, because they're part of the community itself -- and also to solve the problems. Then we have things about sports, music and the Red Cross, and following up everything that – as the representative Woldseth said – encounters uncertain times. Then we'll go over it with funding. The previous government had notified a message about gambling. There was never a message with a full review of gambling and gambling in Norway. There was a message about vending machines, which was good enough in that field. But what we're approaching now is a great deal of uncertainty from July 1st for funding volunteering, and these associations can't live with it. I believe that, in the context of the voluntary service, initiatives should be taken to ensure that at the same time there is a notification of games, which represents a large part of the funding of the voluntary service. We should have a full review of games. What kind of game are we going to have? What does that mean for volunteering? And how are the revenues to be distributed to the volunteer? So we have to figure out: what's the rest there, and then what are we going to take responsibility for directly in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e263	First honor the representative Sundsbø to focus on culture, health and volunteering. These are themes that the Christian People's Party is also concerned with. It is not difficult to agree with the inter-pellant that the voluntary sector represents a central resource in society, a resource that could probably also be exploited even better in interaction with the public. The representative, Sundsbø, advocates a comprehensive voluntary policy. Such a comprehensive voluntary policy has also been addressed in the past. There have been several volunteer messages over the years, and there have been themes in many discussions, including here in Stortinget. Gradually, it has gone so far as to coordinate the voluntary work of one department and called it the Ministry of Freedom. And you operate with a volunteer minister, we hear. It was already done in 2004. If the interpellant will try to force voluntary work into one form and bring together all organisations, actions and activities under one uniform heading, ‘Freewill’, I am not sure if that is so appropriate. The expansion of volunteering takes place in so many different ways and in so different areas that they may not need to be coordinated under one umbrella. There is a difference between the voluntary activity of, for example, a large humanitarian organization and, let's say, a music village, for that matter. On the other hand, grants to non-governmental organisations have now been chosen primarily as part of sectoral policy. The work of voluntary organisations has been seen in conjunction with and as part of one policy area. Many voluntary organisations have played an important role, including the Council of State, precisely in the development of the Norwegian welfare state in different areas, such as: in the field of health and care. Therefore, sector membership has given organisations the status of significant partners to public authorities. They continue to play important roles in the fight for different interests and as corrective to state policies in the various arenas. In addition, a collection of single-minister grant schemes and a reduction in the emphasis on sector-specific support schemes would have represented a breach of the historical ties with the State and the role of organisations as important social and national actors. Therefore, it is not certain that voluntary work will serve this purpose. Maybe there's another grip that's far more important. I think one of the experiences many people have had with voluntary work in recent years is that a lot of time goes by filling out application forms and finding out about projects for which it is possible to apply for money. If you had been saved for all of this, you could rather spend time doing what you really wanted to do, doing volunteer work. A number of years ago, a policy change began in Norway with regard to the granting of financial support for voluntary work. It was claimed that the granting of aid to joint ventures led to a passivity. Organisational people went and increased support, they thought, and then it got along with it. Thus, they turned around and went on to provide more support for time-limited projects. After a while, this pendulum turned all the way over to the opposite extreme, to give only project support. This again led to the fact that the most important thing in an organisation was the art of completing forms. Therefore, when a new voluntary service is announced, as has been done today, this should be addressed: more of the support for operational support. Voluntary organisations, voluntary work and hard work are an enormous force in society. The link between volunteering, culture and health, to which the interpellant also points, is well known and indisputable. In principle, it is important to stress that culture and voluntary efforts have a self-esteem, that is. a value in itself. That it also helps to strengthen many other values, of course. It is desirable to stress that associations and organisations are important as democratic actors. Voluntary organisations are often called schools in democracy. And then the organizations are meaningful, identity-creating communities. Band to other people is a prerequisite for being molded as a social being and for getting an identity. All of this, of course, also affects health. Then it has a self-esteem that people want to make an effort for others. It's great that people give of their time and commitment to another or a cause they burn for. It's a value below which it's worth building up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e284	This is a topic that will now be debated several times in Stortinget. It's very wide across what the interpellant takes up, and it's been said very much wisely about volunteering here today. I think the cleaning up of the representative Lånke in the ideological connection to volunteering was very good. I think there are just some of the comments from Bergo today that I know I don't at all agree with. Voluntaryness is not exactly a resource, as the interpellant writes in the interpellant text. I would rather say that it is a fundamental driving force in Norwegian society. Why is there at all some community or community institution that does not really originate from voluntary initiatives? It's very few. There are very few that are deciphered in this hall. Most of them are made up of non-governmental organisations throughout the country, and then taken up in this hall. Almost everything in our education systems, almost everything in our health systems, the fundamentals of social care and the basic institutions of culture have very often, almost always, originated from an initiative among volunteers. Thus, volunteering is the basis for everything that is of cultural activity. The great thing about the Norwegian model, which I think is so good in culture, is that we can balance both an elite that motivates and develops, and have a width that engages and recruits. That's the balance between an elite and a width of every cultural area that makes Norway the cultural nation that we actually are. Here we come to the point where I might disagree a little bit with Bergo. The intense desire to take over more and more of the tasks they are doing today, to take over the volunteering where it is considered worthy, does not seem to me to be the right policy in this area. In the cultural field and in a number of other areas where voluntary work is being done, the very driving force is that people do it on their own initiative, which is what is exciting. That's perhaps what's most exciting, I think, with volunteer centres, which is a difficult balance between what the public job is to do, and what the volunteer's job is to do. There was once a discussion in the Freedom Center about whether it was right for volunteers to feed patients in nursing homes. It's not a matter of setting a rule, because what's going on is whether the volunteer thinks it's something he or she wants to do, because it's the desire that's the driving force of the volunteer. It is never right when society places an order with non-governmental organisations. It's never right when society places an order that such and such should happen. But if the individual who is a volunteer wants to do it, it's right to do it. That's why it's like a volunteer at a volunteer center once said, "In the beginning I was helping others, but now I'm not quite sure who's helping who." It's because we're social people who, through the voluntary efforts we do, often get more positive feedback than if we had maybe just chosen to be users of a system. That's the added value we lose if we move into Bergo's dream-socialist society, where the state is responsible for all things that are going to mean something to people. What I very much agree with the representative Sundsbø is what he says about health and culture. And I am very pleased that the representative Sundsbø also wanted to point out that he had no instrumental view of culture. But that might mean that we should have had the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education more in this room today, for the knowledge of health and how health-intensive it is to get more culture into the institutions, perhaps should have been brought more into our education, into health education, and also become a priority in relation to the management of our important health institutions. I think it's a knowledge that can take us forward. It is possible to do a big-time representative test of this: when you go home from work and are very tired, you can check how much energy you get from going through some culture, and how much energy you get from sitting on your own sofa.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e303	The representative Sundsbø has drawn up a very important case – and with a highly relevant approach angle. Culture and volunteering are themselves important. The self-esteem of culture is the most important thing. He's important to each one of us, and he's important to us as a society. He is of great importance to the public, and culture and volunteering are also good health policies. When we then have the time's focus on culture, it's good for people's health, and everyone who's concerned about good health should also be concerned about culture and volunteering. I think it's easy to agree that participating in and experiencing art and culture, participating in voluntary teams and organisations is absolutely preferable when, in addition to all the joy we find in it, it can also save us for future health problems. Volunteers are among those who are perhaps the most aware and concerned that they also play an important role in relation to people's health, among other things. are very many engaged in preventive work of a different kind. In its contribution, the Council of State was in many important areas of activity for the Government. We have a lot of measures in the budget that are adopted, and we're going to make our own big message about volunteering. I think we're doing well and on our way to strengthening volunteering. The approach that Sundsbø has taken here today should also be reflected in the big message of volunteering, I think, because there is such an important additional dimension to volunteering otherwise. Voluntary organisations make an invaluable effort. We have to try to make the best possible effort to get the most involved, whether it's within sports or other parts of volunteering. We have to make it purely practical, but we also have to do it financially. When we strengthen the Free Fund scheme for children and young people, when we allow money to more volunteer centres, when we want to facilitate the daily lives of organisations through a voluntary register, and when we in many other ways strengthen the work of voluntary organisations, we have to hope and believe that it will contribute to more activity for more people, and that health for people and society will be improved by it. In addition, I think that the fact that Kommune-Noreg is now experiencing a better health than in the past is also important based on what benefits people's health. Many municipalities, after the government change, are much better able to stimulate activity and help teams and organisations in the local environment than they were a few years ago. For example, if we: and with a low parental pay, it will give us many new and great cultural practitioners before different genres, but it will not least give these kids a quality of life that is good to have, even to take care of the people. The same applies to cultural card priorities for young people and students. The cultural school, which should be extended to further education — and kindergarten, for its sake — or other activities in the community. I believe that the Progress Party was concerned that the State was coming forward in automatic cases before the EFTA Court for a short time, at least this was the case, without being a big point today. The fact that the state won out there is perhaps the most important contribution to improving the people's well-being of the maybe 70,000 who today enjoy gambling addiction. So here we probably have a different angle of incidence to what's good public health work. It's good that the Council of State and the Government are busy with what the interpellant here has come up with. I look forward to the big message of volunteering and the further work for a holistic voluntary policy that also benefits each and every one of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e330	Anyone who has spoken is probably in agreement with the great importance of non-governmental organisations for society. But it is also true that more people have wanted to say that there are some limits to how to view non-governmental organisations as part of the public strategy to solve tasks. I fully agree with that. When e.g. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, says that volunteering is a fundamental driving force in itself, not primarily a public service resource, of course, we agree with that. But then it is also that we have a basic driving force in society, after all, the public that also wants to be a driving force in society can play on the team. Public and voluntary organisations can play a team to solve tasks for the benefit of society’s citizens. That is what representatives have been concerned about in this context. I am among those who are skeptical that some municipalities view volunteers as a resource to solve care tasks that they think are expensive to solve themselves. I think they're making mistakes by first of all calculating voluntary efforts to save public resources, instead of looking at voluntary efforts as a driving force to create an inclusive society, a more creative society and thus a fresher society – also in older institutions. Being able to involve volunteers in institution-based care means, first of all, that we are able to create meeting places for people, that we are able to create joy for people who may otherwise be isolated, and that we are able to create an added value that in itself makes us healthier, and that makes us less treatment-intensive in retrospect. I am also of those who are pleased that the Minister for Culture has been assigned a role as Minister for Volunteers. Then we agree that all departments have a responsibility to think about how volunteers can be a resource. I don't think there's a department that doesn't have a post that supports non-governmental organizations. But it just as fully means that it is essential that we have a Council of States that has the responsibility to look at the coherence and coordination of all this voluntary work. Governments also have an organisation by their side, Freedom Norway, which is the spokesman for the sum of voluntary organisations — whether there are choirs, orchestras or humanitarian organisations. So everything facilitates good interaction and a growth in the importance of volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e339	The most important thing about this debate may be that it manifests a great deal of commitment and great support to the voluntary sector, cross-political in the Storting. I think that's important, because the voluntary sector represents a very high value for Norwegian society, partly by all the societal tasks that are solved through voluntary work, but perhaps primarily by the joy and quality of life that individuals experience by being able to organize, participate in activities, be recognized and seen and feel together with other people in the voluntary organisation life. Of course, there is an important debate on the limits of what is being imposed on non-governmental organisations and what tasks are expected to be fulfilled by non-governmental organisations. Here I think the secret is to let the volunteer organizations and the volunteer activities themselves decide what they want to do. If they decide to solve tasks that society seems useful and right, and as municipalities seem to help solve local problems, it is very well, because it is based on the voluntary activities and voluntary choices that organisations and participants themselves make. What we can do, first of all, is to facilitate that all volunteers can work on what they actually want to do – that people in sport can work on training, tournaments, fighting and organizing the activities, that people in cultural life can do with music, corps, choirs and theaters and everything they do, that the humanitarian organizations can do their job, and that we make it possible for the least possible of the work, at least as far as possible, not to be used on phonographs, tombolas, Christmas sales, and all that often seems to be the most burdensome thing about volunteering, that is to get money for the activity that you really want to do. If we can contribute to it through schemes such as Free Funding, Voluntary Centres, Tax and Tax Schemes or reduced bureaucracy and application fields and through direct grants to non-governmental organisations, it is not to make volunteering dependent on the public – it is to make them more independent, more independent and more able to carry out the activities they want, and even be a corrective to the public. Through this work they can also contribute to a society that not only repairs all the damage that occasionally occurs in different areas but also contributes to prevention, to greater quality of life, to an environmentally friendly and humane society. I hope that the cross-political enthusiasm for volunteering that has manifested itself here will also be expressed when we deal with the volunteering message that comes during the year, because there we are going to put exactly the framework conditions that hopefully can help ensure that the volunteering in Norway gets even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e350	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e364	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e371	Very Card: This is a consent proposition. In comprehensible language, this means that through the EEA Agreement Norway joins European qualifications and training requirements for professional drivers. The Committee considers such an action to be important for road safety and for the recruitment of the profession. Government parties have their own comments. The Party will stress that within the framework of the Directive Norway can and should facilitate a compressed variant as regards the basic qualifications. The Party considers such a variant to be important in order to ensure that basic qualifications are subject to a time and cost scale, which in practice appears to be recruiting to the driver’s profession and not to reject recruitment. Let me add that this is actually a good idea, even if it comes to us through an EU directive. I also point out that, later today in Odelstinget, we are going to deal with a change in the law in order to bring this provision into line with the provisions of the Road Traffic Act. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e384	The aim of the Directive is to introduce common requirements on basic qualifications and periodic training for professional drivers. The Committee considers such an action to be important for road safety and for professional recruitment. This Directive will contribute to ensuring a level playing field in the EEA territory, to promoting the recruitment of the driver profession and also to contributing positively to the reputation of the profession. The Directive thus lays down minimum requirements for basic qualifications and periodic training for drivers of certain types of heavy-duty vehicles. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre shall base their efforts on the information contained in the proposal that the changes will strengthen drivers' knowledge and awareness of road safety, environmentally friendly driving, securing cargo and handling of freight contracts and customs and shipping documents. The consultation provides broad support from stakeholders to the so-called hourly model – teaching for 280 hours, with a final theoretical test. It involves a fairly thorough reform of the qualification requirements for access to and pursuit of the driver’s profession. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that the implementation of the scheme will enhance the quality of drivers and that this could give positive results, in particular in terms of road safety. The Directive fits well with the objectives underlying the Norwegian training for heavy-duty drivers. The Directive focuses on environmentally friendly driving, which is also in line with Norwegian priorities. The introduction of basic qualification requirements and regular training is very correct. Trucks are involved in too many accidents. In most cases, the truck driver is not responsible for the accidents, but we have seen several cases in winter when foreign drivers of large car trains come to Norway with too bad tyres and without chain. Some are stopped, thanks to controls, but too many escape. It is therefore important to strengthen and intensify controls and provide knowledge to drivers. Therefore, traffic stations should be maintained. In Våler in Hedmark, Norsk Trafikksenter has a smooth driving path where professional drivers receive professional assistance and training. Norwegian Traffic Centres can show good results. This training should be compulsory for all trainees in the driver’s profession. Now that we know that there is a lack of truck drivers, I would ask the Council of State to assess the cost of this education. In this context, I can mention that the use of simulators in addition to practical training can reduce costs. It's not about either – or, but both. Norwegian Trafiksenter in Våler in Hedmark cooperates with Sintef on this. I would also like to mention that it is important to give young people training on closed courses under skilled guidance. Voluntary organisations such as Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Automobile Club, KNA, Norway’s Automobile Association, NAF, and the Automobile Association, MA, are making a huge effort in the field of awareness-raising and training. That's what they deserve. All good forces must be put in place to provide good training for drivers and to prevent accidents from our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e412	The 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome was celebrated this weekend. This is the first EU directive we have to deal with after that celebration, so it's nice to join the congratulations – a slightly more positive angle than the representative Arne Sortevik had, who said that despite the fact that it was an EU directive, it was age-bound. This is a good thing. The EU has taken many initiatives that Norway had either never become part of or that would take us a very long time to produce itself. Today, when we open up new requirements for initial and continuing training for professional drivers of specific categories of heavy-duty vehicles, it is an important road safety measure. It is important and timely to introduce new requirements for basic qualifications and to recognise the need to maintain qualifications with continuing training. The development of the road transport market has led to greater challenges for professional drivers than in the past. The new requirements are an instrument to ensure that drivers have the competence deemed necessary to meet these challenges. Already today, driving training in Norway contains several elements of the EU Directive, although compulsory training is not required for heavy-duty drivers in addition to that resulting from training for driving rights. France, Germany and the Netherlands have vocational training for heavy-duty drivers. These include: the experience gained with these systems underpinning the directive we are now going to implement. Drivers will be trained on issues such as road safety, environmentally friendly driving, securing cargo, handling of cargo contracts and customs and freight documents and other relevant professional legislation. Requirements for nearly equal training for drivers throughout the EEA will improve the competitive situation of Norwegian drivers, increase the quality of drivers and increase the status of professional drivers. In the long term, this will also improve road safety and reduce accidents. And if the emphasis on environmentally friendly driving is on results, of course, it's also very positive. I hope that this directive will also be implemented and followed up in other EU countries, so that we will avoid just the kind of cases in which the representative has fallen, with the problems that foreign heavy goods vehicles have created on Norwegian roads in winter and otherwise in winter. But at the same time, it is an important element that there are too few applicants for the profession. And if one now imposes a new education, it is important that the authorities and industry look at new measures to train a sufficient number of drivers that can drive heavier vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e433	We are currently examining a directive to introduce harmonised requirements on basic qualifications and periodic training for professional drivers. It shall contribute to ensuring a level playing field in the EEA territory, to promoting the recruitment of the driver profession and also to contributing positively to the reputation of the profession. It shall also contribute to increased road safety and it shall focus on environmentally friendly driving. It's positive. The Directive fully follows the objectives underlying the Norwegian training for heavy-duty drivers. The matter is being dealt with here today because implementation requires legislative change. Therefore, the consent of the Storting is needed. The introduction of the Directive would entail some increase in public costs. These relate to expenditure on the teaching, administration, approval and supervision of educational establishments, expenditure on tests and the issue of evidence. In the case of continuing training, there will be an increase in the costs of recording previous training and of renewing the certificate. The Ministry of Transport expects the Vegvesen to need about 13 new annual works if the hour model is chosen. If the sample model is selected, it is estimated that around 28 new annual works are needed. In addition, the administration of continuing training will require about five years of work in the regional offices of the Vegvesen. We note that this should be covered within the current budgetary framework and by user financing. The introduction of the Directive would therefore lead to some increase in private costs. With the hourly model, students have to pay for compulsory education and for tests. With the test model, there will be no mandatory instruction, but a fee for the tests. The rental of the vehicle for the practical test must be covered by the student. The periodic training requirement will incur costs in the form of lost earnings. In addition, there is a payment for education and testing. On the basis of figures from the Statistical Centre and from the transport sector, the Directorate-General for Road Transport estimates that there are currently about 50000 professional drivers driving heavy-duty vehicles. Upon completion of five-yearly training, an average of 10000 professional drivers will have to complete such training each year. This Directive provides for a comprehensive reform of the qualification requirements for access to and pursuit of the driver profession. However, there is reason to believe that the implementation of the scheme will enhance the quality of drivers and that this could give a positive impact, in particular in terms of road safety. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e448	Directive 2003/59/EC applies to the challenge of professional drivers. The aim of the Directive is to introduce harmonised requirements for basic qualifications and periodic refresher training for professional drivers. It shall ensure a level playing field in the EEA territory, promote the recruitment of the driver's profession and also contribute positively to the profession's reputation. The Directive should also contribute to increased road safety. The Directive lays down minimum requirements for basic qualifications and periodic refresher training for professional drivers of different categories of heavy goods vehicles. It applies to different classes of both bus and truck. In the Directive, a good deal is being done on the subject of the training of drivers, including road safety, environmentally sound running, securing cargo, managing cargo contracts, customs and freight documents and other relevant professional legislation. The Directive is aimed at professional transport. Drivers of vehicles that are not commercial vehicles are therefore not covered by the requirements. Some other exceptions are also granted, including: for drivers of running gear with a maximum authorised speed of 45 km/h and for drivers of running gear used in navigation and rescue operations. Member States may choose between different solutions to implement the requirements of the Basic Challenge Directive: either 280 hours of instruction with a final theoretical test, the so-called hourly model, or relatively extensive theoretical and practical tests without prior mandatory instruction, the so-called test model. In addition, Member States may introduce a compressed version with 140 hours of instruction, with a final test. This model will grant some limited rights to drivers between the ages of 18 and 23. In order to maintain professional competence, the individual driver shall carry out back-testing for each of the following five-year periods. A qualification test shall be carried out for the purpose of completion of the challenge. Professional drivers will have to have this test in order to exercise the driver’s profession. The test shall be mutually recognised among the EEA States. The EEA Member States are now implementing the Directive in national legislation, but the requirement that professional drivers carry out the training applies only from September 2008 to bus drivers and from September 2009 to truck drivers. I hope that the introduction of the Directive will have a positive impact on the transport industry and I am pleased that the Transport and Communications Committee supports the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e471	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e474	I just want to make it clear to the Council of States what she is now saying, that Member States can introduce – and use – a compressed variant. This is a matter that essentially has full agreement. So we want a common education, but we're also concerned about it being a recruiter – and not the other way around. Then it is important to stress that Norway can use a compressed version, with 140 hours of instruction instead of 280 hours. I ask the Council of State to confirm that it will be made possible for Norway to use the compressed model, so that we have a good effect – which is not in any way reprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e481	The formulations used say that a user should have at least ‘280 hours of instruction’ or at least ‘140 hours of instruction’. We have followed up the proposal from the Road Directorate at that point. I see that the Committee has also chosen the word "minimum" and that the regulation should contain a minimum requirement. I can confirm that we're going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e488	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e506	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e515	It was joy, marking and celebrating at the Fåbberg church today – perhaps several hours in advance. Here were contributors, Vegvessen, schoolchildren and the people else in the region. The schoolings celebrated that there will be a new walk and cycle path in the future – and distributed flowers and reflective vests. After many decades of commitment and efforts to get a better way, one today finally gets a decision to collapse that will realize this expansion. It includes the proposal on the development and financing of R & D. 255, from Jørstad in Lillehammer municipality to Segalstad bru, with adjacent road system. All parties, except the Progress Party, are reassembled with the settings that support St. prp. No Thirty-five. Locally, a consensus has now been reached on the development and financing of a development that is urgently needed. Rv. 255 is the only connection to schools, activities and neighbours in the area. The road is narrow and curved, and there is a continuous edge-bust and many direct runs on the route. Most of the routes between Jørstad and Segalstad are missing. Annual daily traffic is more than 4000 vehicles, and the speed limit has been reduced by most of the distance. This is a way that both the inhabitants and the business community, not least travel life, depend entirely on. It was set up for plant start-ups in June 2007, with completion in 2009. Reparation will lead to simpler and safer conditions for all groups of road users on the route. The project also includes the rectification of e.g. 315 on the line Lundgård-Brubakken in the municipality of Lillehammer. The road here has bad standards, and there is a need for repair. This road will act as a bypass for traffic on rv. 255 during the installation period. This reinforces the need for reparation. The extension also includes a new E6-to-Fv route connection. 312 at Storhove, north of Lillehammer center. The arrival of Storhove from Rv. Today, 255 is via E6 and fv. 312 from the south. The new connection will shorten the running distance of these road users with a distance of 5 km. In addition, there will be a continuous walk and cycle path between the town centre of Lillehammer and the municipality of Gausdal. The project has been funded with government funds, tolls and local support. Construction of a new E6-Fv follow-up route. 312 at Storhove will be co-financed by tolls from toll stations on Rv. 255 and F.B. 315. It is worth noting that parts of the traffic passing the toll stations on Rv. 255 and F.B. 315 will also use the new E6 to fv road link. 312 at Storhove. In addition, the connection will result in a continuous walk and cycle path between Lillehammer Centre and Segalstad. There are therefore good reasons why the new county road link can be assessed as part of a coherent transport network in the area. I would like to show that the Directorate of Road also considers this to be a coherent transport network, an assessment to which the Ministry of Transport also subscribes. Otherwise, I will refer to the decisions of the municipality of Oppland, the municipality of Lillehammer and the municipality of Gausdal, which show great agreement on the project. Gausdal and Lillehammer municipalities participate in the funding, and there is reason to praise the industry for their commitment to the cause, and that they actually give way by means of the so-called DA funds. Upland counties largely contribute to the financing of the county road project. As I have said, the Government Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree on the setting. I expect the Progress Party itself to do well for its proposal, but I note that the Progress Party uses its usual rhetoric in the treatment of road development propositions where there is partial toll financing. Of course, this can be done when one in opposition can spend state money for almost all good purposes without having to be held accountable. If the Progress Party were to come into position with the Right and possibly others, they too might have to take over the reality and find solutions within the responsible financial framework. It also happens in Oslo and other places where the Progress Party has its position. In this case, the municipalities of Lillehammer and Gausdal, Oppland County and Local Business, have made up their minds and take an initiative for a solution that will ultimately provide an extension of the road, walking and cycling routes. They have reason to rejoice that a large majority of the Transport and Communications Committee – and probably also the Stortinget – will end up with this solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e543	Everyone wants a good path, not everyone wants to pay one more time for what they have all paid for. Another toll proposition is being addressed today, another toll proposition from a government that sets Norway’s record in toll use – many and large toll projects, increasing toll percentage and advance toll collection. What did the majority – all the Biggest parties with the exception of the Advance Party – say when the National Transport Plan 2006-2015 was discussed in 2004? They said, ‘The majority sees the pedagogical point that the collection starts on the new road when it is completed and agrees that post-clearance collection shall be the general rule.’ It's got to be with the pedagogics. Worse still, the principle has been abandoned. Now pre-enforcement has become the main rule. When you, like the Government and the Minister of Transport, make clear that without tolls, no way, there is little to hide behind the answer that the Government is just following up local initiatives. Municipalities and county councils are pressured by the Government to choose toll-funded solutions. The use of tolls is also becoming increasingly creative and diverse. This project includes several such aspects: the improvement of fv. 315 on the line Lundgård-Brubakken in the municipality of Lillehammer. In addition, the construction of a new county road link from E6 to fv. 312. And at the top of it all: Tolls are also going to finance the construction of new toll stations on Rv. 255 and F.B. 315, with 14 million. kr. The majority of the population has also said something about the benefits of paying tolls in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan 2006–2015: ‘The majority are in favour of the Government’s proposal to intensify the principles of benefit.’The setting in this case is set out on page 2:‘The construction of a new E6 to fv 312 at Storhove has been partly financed by tolls from the toll stations on rv 255 and fv 315. Such a scheme is in principle contrary to the principle of tolling that those benefiting from an action should also contribute to the financing.’.» Then you've interpreted yourself out of this principle in both the Road Directorate and the Department, and you're going in to break it. Even the toll stations have to pay themselves, at least 72 pst. It is the share of the drivers in the total investment. Or is it? Unfortunately, the answer is no. The answer is that the drivers will contribute 181 million. kr. to the entire project, and for that they have to pay 60 million in addition. NOK in collection costs broken down over 15 years. They're going to have to pay $16 million. DKK in interest expense — quickly estimated to be 196 million. kr to, i.e. in addition to the net contribution included in the financing plan itself. That's 181 million. NOK 377 million. kr – yes, nearly 390 million. kr when we take into account that the drivers are also required to cover the cost of toll journeys. This is unacceptable. It is unacceptable for the drivers to pay the bill for the construction of new national and county roads, it is unacceptable for the drivers to pay for something they do not directly benefit from, and it is both unacceptable and unacceptable that they should also pay an extra charge of 114 pst. It is not so bad in the state economy. The State budget for 2007 includes an oil fund at the end of the year of NOK 2 288 billion. However, when the Minister of Transport assumes that ‘All investment in the national road network is a state responsibility, but fiscal considerations set limits on funding from the state budget’ – then drivers get bills like this. The Progress Party has an alternative proposal, and it has been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e572	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e575	For people in Gausdal and its surroundings, this is a great day. It is not everyday food to get road safety by foot and bicycle all the way from the nearest city and up in Gausdal. 4000 ADT, or annual traffic, is relatively high. It is then possible that we have such a large majority in this room to solve this matter this way. I want to point out that between 16 and 17 million. kr per. In fact, km of road is also at the base of what we have seen on some other project. It's nice. It is a matter that has been worked on for a long time. There is a great and broad upturn, also political, and the Right joins in the presentation of the case by the President-in-Office. I also want to give recognition from this pulpit for the burden you impose locally to get a quick realization. However, I react to a few points in the matter. It's described as a negative utility of minus 2 pst. That's 4.5 pst. calculation rate. It is the same method of analysis that makes Bjørvika the country’s worst dietary/useful project. I think the time is overdue to establish new socio-economic models that measure real societal benefits, not just transport benefits, as this case shows. For too long, we've been doing this, and it also means that we don't make so much difference to the dietary fraction that comes out. A good illustration of it is that none of the previous speakers have spent time on it. I also respond to the fact that the County Municipality of Uppland undertakes to guarantee a loan admission to a State project within the conditional reimbursement scheme. They make a county council decision on how much they think the conditional reimbursement must be – 55 million. kr. The Ministry of Transport then reduces the conditional reimbursement to 25 million. kr. Is it not the case that within the divided framework of the so-called other national roads, the county councils themselves are the priorities? When the county feels that they must have that security for their guarantee, why do they overtake the county? I hope the Council of State can respond to this. I know she's busy listening to local decision-makers. So a little bit about the funding role, the non-governmental part: ‘Lending rate of 6,5 pst. provided evidence from a loan institution is provided before plant start’, it states in the proposition. This raises more questions. Does the ministry mean that one should bind the interest rate at this level? 15 years is a long time. It has not been long since the corresponding project with this type of warranty received 1,85 pst. in interest rate offers. Does the State also take the financial responsibility in the event of a fall in interest rates? No, I don't think so. But does not the State then agree to untying up funding without taking responsibility? It can be expensive for users. I know that the road finance companies have both the competence and/or the competence to strive to keep the minimum financial costs over time. This is an important element, perhaps the most important, of the amortisation period. Therefore, it is wrong to enter and bind the assumption without taking responsibility for itself. Finally, a small mention to today's newspaper about relatively modest operating fees. It may turn out to be small in relation to the cost of a forced borrowing strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e592	We deal with the development and financing of R & D. 255 from Jørstad in Lillehammer municipality to Segalstad bru in Gausdal municipality with adjacent road system. The Christian People's Party supports this proposal and the method of funding with state resources, tolls and local subsidies. There is a broad local consensus on prioritising the remediation of rv. 255 and to co-finance the development of tolls. All parties, except the Progress Party, support the proposal here in the Stortinget. The praise of the Advance Party is to be said to be consistent – and I stress consistently – in overcoming local democracy, but at the same time it must be stressed that there will be very little road construction of such a strategy, as long as the Progress Party is not in a position to implement its proposals. It is important that such remedial projects lead to simpler and safer conditions for all groups of road users. Rv. 255 is the only way to school and neighbors too many in the area, and there is a narrow and curved road with many direct runs that are now to be repaired. This project also involves the construction of a pedestrian and cycle path. It's very positive. Giving children and adults the opportunity to go and ride to work and school is the best thing we can do for health and the environment. The cycle is actually the ultimate means of zero emission, and it gives positive benefits in use, in addition it is a good means of transport. The Christian People's Party believes that priority must be given to building up our own paths for pedestrians and cyclists. The motto should be: for health, exercise, environment and safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e603	This is a joyous day for all of us who are users of rv. 255. A new route to Gausdal has been working for a number of years. It's suggested 50 years away. And it's not wrong when people in Gausdal actually remember that it was stabbed to new trajectory through Follebu in 1952. It is probably not exactly the line that is being followed up now, but it says a lot about that this has not been a matter of urgency. The case got a new date in the 1980s, with the so-called "bakli alternative" – that is, it was wanted to move the road on the other side of the valley floor. But it was scraped after a time. I have had the pleasure of being rapporteur in Gausdal, and the matter was also regularly on the agenda at this time. I'll get back to that a little bit. But first to the proposition. It includes proposals for the development and financing of R & D. 255 from Jørstad in Lillehammer municipality to Segalstad bru with ‘sighing road system’, as it is called in the text. The adjacent road system means getting shorter and better roads between E6 and fv. 312 at the Lillehammer College, repair of intersections in the area and not least a continuous walk and cycle path from the Lillehammer Centre to Segalstad Bru. That's two and a half miles. Furthermore, a joint committee states that: ‘Rv. 255 is the only connection to schools, activities and neighbours in the area. The road is narrow and curved, and there is a continuous edge-bust and many direct runs on the route. In addition, walking and cycling routes are missing on most of the route between Jørstad and Segelstad.Annual daily traffic is about 4000 running gear and the speed limit is reduced on most of the distance. The Committee would point out that remedial action will lead to simpler and safer conditions for all road users on the route. In addition, it will be better for those bussets in the area.» So far the attitude of the Transport and Communications Committee. I just want to stress that what this committee is saying is absolutely right. Rv. 255 is the only way. We have rightly said on several occasions that the road is the very lifeline of Gausdal, where it slings like a side arm to E6 from Lillehammer. As mentioned above, the route is operated by 4000 cars per. 24 hours – this is actually more than on the E6 south of Dombås. There are very often accidents on the road, fortunately rarely with serious exits. But now at Christmastime, unfortunately, there was a fatal accident on the road. All that's going in and out of the municipality is being transported along this road, and it's not small. Every day there are 1,000 people commuting out and in from Gausdal at work. Most of them drive a private car, and this is necessary because there is a large lack of public transport. If you want to look a little bit rough on business, the municipality is characterized by two big industries. It's agriculture and forestry and tourism. These are industries that depend on transporting by road. There's a lot of numbers that could be referred to here, and they're big. I'm not going to do that. Nevertheless, I think I should mention that there are over 100 professional trucks of different sizes in Gausdal. So there's a lot of milk and timber carried along this road, like tiles and gravel -- materials that go out and in from the village every day. It should also be added that several of the truck drivers indicate that driving on such a bad road is a great psychological burden, it is always tiring to feel a little scared. Gausdal has 6,200 inhabitants. I mention this just to compare with numbers from the tourist industry, which is the other big industry in Gausdal. At the ski fight there are 2,000 guest beds, and we tend to say that when the cabins are filled with people, we have over 12,000 inhabitants in Gausdal. Many of the tourists who come to Gausdal are Danes. I am familiar with the fact that large tourist buses from Denmark on the way to Skeikampen regularly have problems with the emergence of winter time. The drivers are hesitating for the trip. As you can see, this is important for business and residents. I feel that this matter is divided into two. It's a veggie and a toll case. I hear tonight that the Progress Party is an opponent of tolls – I have heard it sometimes before. It would of course have been nice to drop tolls. And when we know that Uppland is allocated as a percentage too few funds in relation to the number of kilometers of road, it's an intrusive idea. But when would we have got that road? Should we lose jobs we already have, or maybe miss a lot while we wait? That's what's been the jumping point for tolls to be accepted. The matter has been extensively debated by various local authorities, and has actually been up several times, so that we have got new local government in between. So different bodies think that this is important, so funding has become a spice layer, so there is broad support for a necessary project, and therefore there is a large majority in the Stortingen that joins the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e637	Development of Rv. 255 between Jørstad and Segalstad Bru in Uppland is an important project for the local population in the area. The project is anchored in decisions in the municipalities of Gausdal and Lillehammer and Oppland counties and is part of the State Road Authority’s programme of action for other national roads for the period 2006-2009. The road is toll-financed, with a total construction cost of 252 million. kr. State funding is 42 million. kr. The road acts as the only connection to many activities today, including: as a school road for the children. The road is missing today on many parts of the route. He is narrow and swinging and has interrelated edge-busts and many potentially dangerous runs. Development of Rv. 255 will provide a wider and safer route and will facilitate better access for both private and commercial transport. In addition, a coherent walk and cycle path will be built on the route, which will provide the inhabitants with a safer local environment. A sense of security is a means of creating a local environment that will be viable in the longer term. In order to reduce any future noise problems for the inhabitants along the road, noise screens and noisebulls must be built along large sections of the route. The size management of this project today will enable plant start-ups to take place as early as June of this year. The project is planned to open for traffic in 2009. The representative, Halleraker, asked questions about this article. county guarantees. In order to guarantee the county, this shall be done in accordance with the applicable legislation. There they shall collect the reimbursements in the payment year not exceeding 25 pst. otherwise, by the end of the year of the agreement on advance payments to the national road network. This is what has seen the Oppland County Municipality guarantee, which means that when the 2006 concession to the other highways in Uppland is 34.5 million. kr, that a conditional reimbursement cannot exceed 8,5 million. kr per. years. This is why a conditional refund of up to 25 million is imposed. kr in 2011, 2012 and 2013. In addition, Halleraker had a question that went on the borrowing rate. In all toll projects, a borrowing rate is provided. It is foreseen that a pre-installation facility should provide evidence from a loan institution that one has entered into an agreement of ten to fifteen years, a long-term agreement in which one may bind the interest rate to a lower borrowing rate than 6,5 pst. That's what we've seen that a lot of projects have worked out. One has managed to get long-term contracts at lower interest rates. If there are overruns for this or other reasons, there are also mechanisms in the financing plan to regulate how to deal with those types of exceedances. Up to 10 pst. the national road budget shall be covered by State resources and tolls at the same percentage as in the financing plan. The corresponding legislation is for the municipal and county road network. I note that the Progress Party does not take part in the broad majority that today decides to support the recommendations made by the Government, which will provide the Gausdal inhabitants with an extension of the road project. Some people in this room have more and more resources than others. The government and the majority in Stortinget stay within the framework of road construction in this country. I am pleased that there is at least a broad majority that supports the recommendation in the case that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e659	The Party considers it reasonable for the State to pay its own roads when the levy and tax have already been collected to pay these roads. So the drivers have to pay almost 200 million. kr more than what is actually disclosed. The Council of State considers it reasonable to contribute 180 million. I'm going to have to add 200 million. Is it in the pot? There are some specific fiscal constraints that make such projects, for example: can’t borrow under the same good conditions as Norway provides when borrowing its oil money to other nations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e667	The frameworks given for this project are similar to other projects submitted to the Stortinget for the benefit of local and county government powers. We can do a lot of laps here if it's reasonable. Ideally, a lot of people would probably want the state to fund the whole thing, but the financial framework that the majority are going to stick to doesn't make sense. Then the option is that the road is not built. Then I'm glad that a large number of people are supporting this project. If one were to keep the associated costs that are referred to further down, we could only have tolls on the most trafficked roads. When it comes to those roads with a little less traffic, it's clear that costs are getting a little higher. It can't help but support the road in the more sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e672	This relates to the conditional reimbursement scheme. I am well aware of the scheme and what the Council of State pointed out about how much the commitment can be in each year compared to the year it was given. But there's nothing in the scheme that suggests that any payment can't exceed more than three years? Then I have a comment on this with 6.5 pst. interest rate. Very well known, the Storting has never dealt with a scheme that requires the State to impose a special interest on projects as long-term as 15 years old. I think that can give the state a significant risk in the long term, and where we can be held responsible. With regard to the matter of diet-benefit, which the Council of State did not have at all, I think it is so extensive that I think I have to raise it as a separate interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e686	In the decision of the county council, one wanted to have a conditional reimbursement over two years, in 2012 and 2013, and then at 55 million. kr. So what the ministry has done is to stretch it over three years, to keep it within a frame that corresponds to the frame that Uppland County had in 2006. I think the department has stayed within the current legislation in this area. When it comes to cost-benefit, I'm saying that a speech time of one minute is too button to go into it in its full width. But when it comes to the directive that we are dealing with in this area, I must remind you that it is a national road link and highways and municipal roads. The directive to which one adheres in many respects is a directive for TEN routes, i.e. the major links, tribal routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e693	We have understood that when toll cases are dealt with in Stortinget, finished and approved control plans are to be used when they come to treatment in Stortinget. It was with a little wonder that I registered last Thursday that the Gudbrandsdölen Dagningen had a new control plan for the area between E6 and Fv. 312 at Storhove. I could imagine that the Council of State answered whether it is not such that matters should be settled in the municipalities before they come to treatment in Stortinget. In case yes, how can it be that there are so many things that are now out for regulatory treatment in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e698	I am unfortunately not aware of the wording that you refer to in Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen, so it is difficult for me to comment on it. However, the normal procedure is that matters that are brought before Stortinget should of course be dealt with by the local government, and the regulatory plan should be approved. But I'm sorry, I can't comment on it. Unfortunately, I have not seen the newspaper review.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e703	No more words have been asked for. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e708	Unfortunately, the use of tolls has evolved to become the rule and not the exception in the case of road development in Norway, i.e. the opposite of what the intention behind tolls really was. It was just supposed to be the little extra. In this case, tolls represent at least 72 pst. of funding, and the question can be asked whether this is correct. Is it true that the drivers who already pay billions every year in car and road-related taxes should also bear this cost? Or has it become that Norway cannot afford to build roads without using tolls, as the Minister for Transport claims? Who is really responsible for financing road development? Is that the state, or are they the drivers? I'm just asking. In debates around the country, it seems that if you do not accept an unreasonable amount of toll, there will be no way, no point. Well, I guess you might call that partly to lead the Norwegian people behind the lights. The state can afford to pay for the roads, but it won't. That's what's the truth. It is the responsibility of the state to pay for road development, but what you now experience can be called the political extortion of the driving lists, and that is a working method the Procedural Party does not support. The Progress Party has on several occasions focused its search for the timely evaluation of the use of tolls. This evaluation must be carried out, and it is also important that such an evaluation includes proposals for alternative funding to ensure the development of a transport and environmentally efficient road network in Norway, even without the use of tolls. Not later than when Tromsøpakt 2 was discussed here on 22 February of this year, the Progress Party proposed that the Government should submit such a matter as soon as possible. And unbelievably, this proposal was defeated. It's amazing that there's actually only one party that shows that the toll collection has gone too far. Now, when you say that even more of the tolls are going to be used to finance the problems of public transport, I think there is enough evidence that this has gone too far. Toll projects in Norway seem to be out of political control. Then I think it is incredible that all the other parties are saying ‘thank you and Amen’ without asking a single question. I would like the Stortinget to be able to say today that enough is enough, and I would like this project to be financed by the State alone. I'm afraid that doesn't happen. So in conclusion, I can only conclude that the toll debate will continue. Then it might be a poor consolation that there is still one party on the side of the drivers. And one thing is certain, we're not giving ourselves that easily!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e723	First of all, the question of missing level clearance. I also noticed the essay in Gudbrandsdøren Dagningen, but it is quite clear in the proposition: ‘The Ministry of Transport has, and is aware of, the lack of adequate level clearance of individual minor actions in the overall project. If the lack of plan clearance leads to changes in the progress of the project, the Ministry of Transport will later inform the Storting.’ This is the county road link between E6 and fv. 312. It is part of the municipal plan, and it is pointed out in the proposal that the final regulatory plan will be signed – it will be signed. Elles was Øyvind Halleraker within the diet-benefit principle, and there he touches on a significant question. It's very good to have a diet-benefit calculation, but if you had put it on its own, it would never have been anywhere in the district. It would've been too wretched. So we're going to take that as an indication of the socio-economic benefits. That is precisely why we politicians have to put our political understanding at the heart of this. Otherwise it might be a good idea to have a review of it. The representative Arne Sortevik repeats in his post that the Progress Party has also written in the setting, that the Government has broken the toll collection principle. This is the principle of utility. To say that on the one highway that's mentioned here, there's also going to be a bomb set up. So here the utility principle is reasonably clear. So this is going to be a parallel path to rv. 255. There will be a bypass, and he will be upgraded. On the other way – that’s the arm that we take instead – it will be so that much of the traffic going through these two toll stations will also go on the new road link. In addition, the road link is a completely necessary device to provide a continuous walk and cycle path between Lillehammer and Gausdal Centre. Besides, it has not been so easy to reach a package solution that everyone could be aware of, and this road link is part of that package solution. Had it not been, one never in the world had come in goal. When it comes to the second claim that we break the principle of expropriation, I have to refer to what is in the proposition, on page 4. It says quite clearly: ‘In line with the local policy decisions, it is envisaged to establish toll stations on rv 255 at Fåberg Church and on fv 315 at Lundgård.’ A posteriori collection has been performed on automated, unmanned toll stations. That's actually what's in the proposition, and so I thought these statements about breaking the principle, not keeping the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e744	To the previous speaker, the last point was initially taken into account in the observation that not only the Government, but the majority of the Storting actually violates their own assumptions in toll matters in general — the fact that they are defined away from recovery as a primary principle — and we have many examples of pre-recovery — to choose pre-recovery as a primary principle. The second thing, the point of use, is a reference to what's in the proposition, what's written in the proposition, that it essentially breaks the assumptions in such cases, and then you interpret yourself out of the problem afterwards. I assume that no matter what the actual circumstances of the regulatory plan, or a major or minor change in the regulatory plan, the Council of State will take a closer look at it, and then we might get a clarification on the appropriate occasion of what requirements you have when such propositions as this come to the Stortinget. We have understood that all the control plans should be in place. The Progress Party wants the state to pay. No one has talked about the extras. In the form of funding chosen by a majority today in this case and in other cases, there are large extras to be charged to the drivers. No one's talking about that. So in this case, the supplementary bill is more than the contribution itself. This is where the drivers have to pay well over 200 million. NOK to contribute 180 million. kr. When you choose tolls as a form of funding, it is also strange that you choose the most expensive method. Then we're back to interest. The question is, why do the drivers, why do they have to pay tolls, bear the costs and costs of taking the entire project finance, and why can the state not at least take the project finance costs themselves, so that the contribution is more in line with what is being told to the car lists that they have to pay? So it's like, of course, the Government and the majority of the Biggest define the framework. We have a different view of it. We don't think road construction is like other expenses. We think road construction is an investment. We think the road lasts 50 years. We don't think there's going to be any inflation in building multiple roads with state funding in Norway. We don't think we're tearing up our economy by using some of the amazing resources that Norway has to make the state pay infrastructure in Norway. On the contrary, we believe that this is the most profitable investment Norway can make, and there is no reason why the drivers have to pay extras to build a road in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e757	This is a debate that we have now begun to get more often and more often, unfortunately. In today's VG, we received a shock message that the total operation of these toll stations is now in half a billion dollars – half a billion dollars just to drive the stations. It's a crazy animal way of building roads. Getting into the board of a toll company now must soon be one of the most lucrative things you can do, for the money runs out, and the drivers have to bleed again. In this project, construction of the toll stations costs a total of 16 million. kr. Operation is set at 4 million. kr per. years, and in that period the bomb is going to be there, it's actually going to be 60 million. kr. Then we have the interest cost. They're coming up to 136 million. kr, and the drivers have to bleed again. This has come completely out of control, I think. Unfortunately, all new road investment in this country is about to be made in this way. It is soon not a single project for which this hall grants money. And then the Council of State stands here and says that someone has more money than others. Then she definitely thinks about the Advance Party. But we all have the same amount of money, we have the exact same amount. The oil is the community, it belongs to all of us. But we say that a small part of the oil money will be used for roads, hospitals and schools. But the Council of State and her party traps will place this money in Coca-Cola. That's the difference between the Progress Party and the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e769	I want to get back to the question related to the look-up in Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen and the control plan work, where the Swedish Road Administration announced the start of regulatory work. If you read the proposal, on page 3, the status of the regulatory plans on the various parts of this project has been improved. It also says that the new road link from E6 to fv. 312 near Storhove is shown in the municipal district plan. In conclusion, it has been said in the proposition of a person that there is no adequate level-clearance of any minor measure in the overall project, and I will, of course, inform the Storting about it if there are significant changes. If a further reading on this sub-project, on the Storhove area, is included in the proposition, a part of it will also be included in the notified regulatory plan. So there's a similarity between what's in the proposition and what's in the statement. There are no major changes than finding it unproblematic. It has also been said in the proposition that the control plan for the remaining part is expected to be approved by the municipality of Lillehammer during the first half of 2007. As this is not considered significant changes, the ministry has not considered it problematic. So we can spend a lot of time discussing tolls. To me, it's strange to right the Progress Party's representatives who are so pure here in the Storting in their resistance, while we know that around the municipalities where they have an impact, they can say yes and no. When the Progress Party says no tolls in this room, there is another multiple. In many municipalities its Progress Party with power and influence and can stop toll projects if one does not want them, but then the Progress Party says yes. The party of progress speaks with two tongues when it comes to toll financing, and I think that's what people are most about to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e778	I'll be brief. But the Progress Party can't just let go of throwing out so serious claims that we're constantly breaking the principles/rules of toll collection, but they're being confronted with what's the truth. Now the representative Arne Sortevik says it was a general remark. I want to refer from what they write in the settings. Here they refer to the principle: ‘The majority are in favour of the Government’s proposal to intensify the principles of benefit.’ And on the other hand, ‘The majority sees the pedagogical point that the collection starts on the new road when it is completed and agrees that post-clearance recovery should be the general rule.’ So the Progress Party goes on to say: «These members indicate that both principles are broken in this case.» ‘In this case’ is the claim from the Progress Party. So it's not a general comment. Otherwise, I would like to add to what the Council said about the Progress Party and toll collection, that the question is whether to listen to the representative of Thore A. Nistad or Peter N. Myhre in Oslo, because, as you know, the Progress Party in Oslo is in favour of the largest toll package in Norway's history. When the Progress Party in the configuration indicates that there should be a referendum on such matters as this road project, I have not recorded that the Progress Party in Oslo has called for a referendum on Oslopak.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e799	One thing is at least absolutely certain, and that is that everyone agrees that we want to build the road. It's at least a positive starting point, and it's good, for those who live there, are concerned about getting the road. It has been shown that the whole committee has also been. When the representative Sahl goes up to the pulpit and says that the Progress Party does not listen to the local people and to local democracy, I wonder. In the case we will deal with a little later, 22,000 people have signed that they do not want to pay toll financing for the Kråkerøy link, rv. 108. It does not want the representative Sahl to listen to. But for the Progress Party, it is actually important to listen to those signals as well. Just to say that, in this case too, we have received many feedback from people living in the area, who are very sceptical of the toll collection system for RV. 255, which we are now dealing with. It's not like this is something that everyone is very happy to come to, that you have to skin the drivers with over a doubling of what you have to pay in relation to what you get left in the way. It is also the case that ESA is concerned about developments in Norway, where more and more road sections are being financed using tolls. Tolls are also used to finance cross-roads. Then the Council of State speaks with two tongues. What the council says to the politicians locally is that without tolls you won't get away. When she gets here in the hall, she tries to attack the Progress Party because you fight against tolls, and you vote for tolls locally. Unfortunately, however, many local politicians around feel the pressure of this government and the vast majority that govern this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e810	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 7 [[Footing, see page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e826	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be set to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the State Council. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there are five lines of reply given by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up for the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e835	The municipalities and county councils in Østfold have worked for a long time to implement the Østfold package, Phases 1 and 2, as this package was adopted in Stortinget in the treatment of St.prp. No 26 for 1999-2000. Phase 1 covers the extension of E6 and E18 to the four-field road and the further extension of double-track on the Eastfold line. Phase 2 covers the transport system in and between the major urban regions of Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg, Halden and Moss. Phase 1 is being implemented, but requires follow-up in the State budgets ahead, but for phase 2 there has been no basis for developing a comprehensive implementation. The municipalities are now conducting investigations as a basis for the roll-out of the NTP. Together with the Swedish Road Administration, Fredrikstad Municipality has developed extensive development plans for Rv. 108 in the municipality. However, it has not been possible to fully finance the entire development now. A step-by-step development of the project has therefore been decided. The issue we are about to deal with today concerns the Eastfold package phase 2 first stage of development – proposals for the development and financing of R & D. 108 New Hooker Island Connection, with new four-field canyon bridge over Vesterelva, new road system on Kråkerøy, upgrading the Mosseweg, walking and cycling routes and noise measures where traffic is increasing. Kråkerøy bridge is the only connection between Kråkerøy, Hyler and Fredrikstad. In total, it is approx. 11,000 inhabitants and more than 5,000 recreational properties in the area. Today the traffic stands morning and afternoon when one goes through the city and out to Hookerøy and Hyler. The rush time extends for longer and longer periods of time on the day as traffic increases, without the development of a transport system that tackles this. With this expansion, we will have a much better accessibility for the car and public transport both to Kråkerøy and Håler and in the center, as the new bridge is located on another side of the city, so that the traffic is distributed differently. In addition, the preparedness and security of the population of Kråkerøy and Hyler are ensured. The project is planned to start in the summer of 2007 and to open in the summer of 2009. This is a project that you have been working on locally for a long time and which is a priority in the Vegvesen action programme for NTP. It's provided funded by 9 pst. State resources and 91 pst. user financing, including private grants. The majority of the municipalities concerned and the county council agree on the project and its financing. The toll collection shall be done on both old and new bridges, with two one-way toll stations towards the centre. It has been added to arrears collection in automatic, unmanned toll stations, which provides lower administrative costs than in the manned stations, to which it is focused in the media today. The collection costs are calculated at 75 øre per. Passage, total 3,5 million. kr per. years and 50 million. kr for the entire recovery period. It is also important to clarify that, after a decision has been taken by the Stortinget, the Road Directorate and the toll company are to conclude an agreement on the framework for toll collection in line with the applicable standard agreement and the conditions of this landfill proposal. There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which recommends the Stortinget to take decisions on the development and financing of the New Kråker Island Connection in Fredrikstad. The majority are concerned that we have an equal attitude to and treatment of toll-funded development projects locally and centrally in the elected bodies, and not as in the Progress Party, where the party locally adopts toll-funded expansions, whereas it is central to the fact that they are allegedly in principle against toll financing, and does not address the needs out in the real world. I believe, however, that the reality is also reflected in the Progress Party, and that we are now seeing a change in the party's policy in this area as well. In Østfold there is a large-scale representative of the Progress Party and member of the Financial Committee, Ulf Leirstein, of the Board of Directors of the Eastfold Toll Company, a company which requires tolls to help finance the development of E6 and E18 in Eastfold, in agreement with the Directorate of Road, and which is today criticised by the same Directorate of Road for Over-Administration and Administrative Fees. In any case, he has clearly seen that toll financing provides a faster rate of expansion than we could otherwise have achieved above the State budget, because he and the candidate candidate for rapporteur of the Progress Party in Moss will now have investigated toll-financed development of the Horten-Moss tunnel to replace the ferry and have notified a possible Document No. Eight proposals to figure this out. It is remarkable that a member of the Committee on Finance of the Progress Party is in favour of this. There must therefore be a warning about new policies in this area from the Progress Party as well. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, recommends that the Storting should take a decision in line with its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e861	Once again, we are going to deal with a matter of financing roads in Norway, where the state pushes it most of the responsibility to build the roads onto the driving lists. Only in the context of this development are the costs of the car lists of more than 700 million. kr, while the State contributes only 41 million. kr. Many people don't want to see this in any other way than a very runaway of the drivers. The project is important for solving the problems encountered with the solution that is there today, and it is therefore important to complete the development of R & D as soon as possible. 108 New Hook Island Connection. But the state's more solar task as a guide is not to be solved by the drivers. We also believe that this unconstruction and this financing arrangement violate the principle of utility. There appears now to be no limit to the unreasonable financial burden on the State to shift to the drivers under the mantra that it is local initiative. Development is not a local initiative simply because, with its failure and lack of responsibility for the country's national road development, desperation is provoked by local authorities in order to carry out the necessary road development. This case also has strong and local opposition to the form of funding, documented by over 22 000 protest signatures. Neither is the 50 pst assumption. State participation is respected, as the local policy premises were. Talking about this being a local initiative puts the use of this phrase in the proper light of the legitimacy of state discharge. It reminds me of extortion when the state demands over 90 pst. tolls and themselves contribute less than 8 pst. – in reality, less than zero, considering that the country is left with large revenues, both in the form of VAT and other taxes after the project has been completed. This may be a good idea to have on other roads. This case, as the one we dealt with earlier today, also shows where animals, rationally and unfairly a toll financing of the expansions are. Norway lacks neither equity nor capacity, except the willingness to develop a road network that facilitates efficient and profitable transport throughout the country. It is totally unnecessary and pointless for the Norwegian state road network to be based in such a situation on payments with high collection costs and interest costs. It seems that it is very easy to finance development in a very expensive way when it is only for the state to send the bill directly to the drivers. As mentioned above, in view of this proposal, new roads with a framework of 470 million are being developed. SEK must first contribute 413 million. kr to the project. At the same time they have to pay 50 million. DKK in collection costs and interest on payments for a total of 255 million. kr, i.e. More than 300 million. kr extra to be loaded without getting a new additional metre of road – this is because the country is leaving its responsibility to finance the road network in Norway. The Progress Party welcomes the full heart of the district to realize this road project that will solve the major and long-term traffic problems there. But to transfer responsibility for the implementation to the drivers, who are already paying unreasonable taxes and taxes to get cars on the roads, it is impossible for the Progress Party to be on. In the light of this, I take up the proposal put forward by the Progress Party in the case of the extension of ‘implemented by State resources and after progress as referred to in the case’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e882	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has drawn up the proposal he referred parts of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e885	On the Committee's journey to Eastfold, we were presented with this project on a new and appropriate approach to the Kråkerøy. We in the Right are impressed by the willingness to realize this project. So it's private participation with clean dollars, and it's user payment -- this despite the fact that the people of Kråkerøy have paid most of their roads with tolls in recent decades: first the original bridge, then the whaler tunnel, then the road to the Schrärhallen and now this project. Here a quadruple bridge is to be built which is probably the only one in its battle in Norway. Here, there's going to be a technology development that might also benefit others. That's what we think is exciting. There is a broad upturn in the phase 2 Eastfold package and that is exciting what is happening in Fredrikstad, I have to say. The plot of Fredrikstad Mek. Workshops are urban development of the best brands, and it will be nice to follow developments in Fredrikstad city in the future. Then I have to link some comments to the progressive argument of the Progress Party on loan-funded projects. Yes, unfortunately, capital costs money, including in business and in the private sector. For that matter, there is a balance between the total cost-benefit, including interest-rate, and the cost of waiting until you can finance without a loan. That's the way it is everywhere else in society – so here too. Now it's also true that there's still some inflation, and at least the interest cost has to be adjusted for this, so that we get a real interest cost. Østfold toll company has been mentioned, and it was the case rapporteur who made me take the floor to make a comment on this matter. She said that the board here has a fee to take responsibility for significant loan debts. Yes, the Share Act is strict with regard to governance. And then I don't think it's anything to say that you also get a fee to take a significant responsibility. I take note of the fact that the Directorate of Road today criticises the board of directors of the company that is responsible for funding and collection in relation to the Svinesund link. Yes, here's the road director general meeting, so the communication should be simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e900	The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for the extension of the project «Rv 108 New Kråker Island Connection in the municipality of Fredrikstad in Østfold» with four-field cliff bridge over Vesterelva, new road system on Kråkerøy, upgrading of the Mosseweg, walking and cycling routes and noise measures where traffic is increasing. The Christian People's Party also supports the financing of tolls, state contributions and local subsidies. The decisions of Østfold County Municipality, Fredrikstad Municipality and Hyler Municipality show large local agreement on the project. I still stand firm that the Advance Party is overrun by local democracy, with reference to Mr. Bård Hoksrud's enquiry to me here. As far as I know, we have a representative democracy in Norway, and we have just been quoted as saying that both the municipality of Fredrikstad, the municipality of Håler and the municipality of Østfold are in favour of the project. This is how the Progress Party refers to the revised national budget. So the state means have to come. In that case, the credibility of exactly what is involved is only the means of the Progress Party. But now the Progress Party was part of the majority that adopted the National Transport Plan – in fact they were with and formed the majority there. The state resources available are the State resources contained in the national transport plan. That is why I cannot see it any different than the fact that the Progress Party refers to in relation to the revised national budget is outside realism and cannot be credible for those who are going to build this road link in the future. Rv. 108 over Kråkerøybrua is the only connection between Kråkerøy/Whaler Island and Fredrikstad. In total, there are about 11,000 inhabitants and over 5,000 recreational properties in the islands. The traffic to and from Fredrikstad centre of Hook Island is therefore large and bustling. In addition, there is a high level of leisure traffic, especially in the summer. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned that the new bridge should ensure the preparedness and security of the people of Kråkerøy and Hyler. In addition, the link must open up to new and better collective solutions. It's very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e915	St. pp. No 41 is good news for people in Fredrikstad and not least on Kråkerøy and Håler! The city and the islands need a new bridge over the West River, in the first row to improve their appearance, but also security. About 11,000 permanent buildings, business around Fredrikstad Mek. The workshop and traffic of 5,300 leisure properties benefit from the new connection. For business, the project is so important that some companies have committed themselves to several million dollars in support, as well as users to cover a large part of the cost of tolls. Fredrikstad, together with the municipality of Håller and the municipality of Østfold, would like to start this project as a first step, instead of waiting for an entire package of several investment measures. It shows that the new Hook Island connection has the highest priority locally, something the Government has stressed in its management. The project improves the emergence and traffic management of all groups of road users. The new clover bridge over Vesterelva becomes a landmark in an open position, and is, of course, the dominant single project. In order for the bridge to have as positive an effect as possible, actions on the road network around it, including: on Mossevejen, which is today a municipal road. There is also a way out to get an optimal connection to the existing rv. 108. The old two-field bridge is today the only road connection to Kråkerøy and Håler. Now there is a much better appearance. The new bridge relieves the old one and forms a loophole function. This opens up at the same time to new and better public transport solutions, in line with local policy priorities and with the Soria Moria Declaration, the objective that public transport must be a real alternative to the use of private cars in urban and urban areas. The cost of the project has been through external quality assurance and the governance frame totals 470 million. kr. A large part is to be financed by the users. A toll station is located at both bridges. The collection is in accordance with the principle of use: those who benefit from the impact of the arrival on the bridges are required to pay. The fare is NOK 15 for light and NOK 30 for heavy goods vehicles. On the basis of local preferences, the Government is taking steps to ensure that one cannot pay for more than 50 passages per person. month. I would like to stress that the conditions for toll financing are otherwise in line with the principle that the bulk of the tolls were taken into account in the previous management of the national transport plan. I know, of course, that there are principal opponents of toll financing. I have also noted the proposal of a minority in the Committee, which wants the state to finance everything on its own. But even at a time when the oil fund is growing, priority must be given to the State. If the state were to always finance 100 pst., it would take much longer to build up the infrastructure. This government wants to reduce the distance costs for business and to facilitate the emergence of all residents — and will do so as soon as possible. The strong local involvement is also evidence that partial user funding has been accepted in order to achieve a rapid improvement of the road network. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the Committee has agreed in the Government's proposal on the development and financing of the new Kråker Island Association on Rv. 108. In the last article in the previous case, the representative Hoksrud of the Progress Party claimed that the community is heading towards a toll project in the mistrust of the sitting government. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the local policy decision in the previous case was taken before the 2005 elections, and in this case quite a while back to 2003 – and it was under a government that put its mercy at the power of the Progress Party. The confidence that the Progress Party would use its power in that period to increase the traffic frame was not great – and history has shown that there was no reason to have such confidence either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e934	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e937	We did not get an answer to Arne Sortevik's questions about the interest rate issue. Then I'd like to ask the council again: why can't the state lend out to 2.5 pst. interest on these companies, as is done to other countries, in order to obtain reasonable loans from the Norwegian State? If you had gone for a government loan scheme, at least you could have reduced the interest cost to well under half. Why doesn't the Council of State think you can do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e942	The Norwegian economy is going down. We also see this in the transport sector, where there may be problems because the pressure is high, especially in the construction sector, but trends are also evident in the construction sector. To keep the temperature down in the Norwegian economy, the government limits the amount of oil money to phase into the Norwegian economy. If the state had financed these projects, or a government loan had been used to finance them, it would have gone a little in the same direction. On a loan, however, one would keep a lower level. But it is in this context that the state has not gone in to use oil money for loans in Norway, but they are investing abroad – to keep the temperature of the Norwegian economy at a level that does not increase interest rates further, and that the rate of interest increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e948	In order to follow up the reply to the representative, Hoksrud, the assumption that interest rates will rise is that there is no capacity. Does the Council of State now state that there is no free capacity in the civil engineering sector in Norway? The Council of State now states that there is no free capacity in the civil engineering sector to pick up e.g.: in our neighbouring country Sweden? Does the State Council state that there is no free capacity in the construction industry to pick up from other countries, outside its borders, which makes it possible to invest? It is also the case that an investment is not eaten up when the money is spent, but actually lasts for 50 years. Are there these restrictions that make both this Council of State and this government refuse to use any more revenue from the oil fund to build infrastructure, paid by a search warrant state?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e953	This government has increased its travel budget by DKK 2.5 billion. Frame's extra. The annual allowances have been increased by DKK 2.5 billion. It is formidable in relation to what previous governments have accomplished, so the claim that this government does not use money on transportation, I want to take the strongest distance from. Why a non-phases add up to many billions in, I did okay for in my previous answer. There are also trends in the construction industry that prices may rise slightly. By the way, I don't know if one can call it a trend yet, but there's a signal that indicates it. We have to align ourselves to the offers that come in. One cannot go out and collect foreign companies, they must come and compete on the same line. So to the extent that they're not competing, we can't bring them in immediately. We have to stick to the legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e960	I belong to the constant state council telling about these frames that have been increased by 2.5 billion kroner. Then I could imagine that the Council of State explained how much of this is toll, and how much is state funding in terms of purely state resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e965	One will see, if you read the budget, that the Government has increased the government's budget and the budget for 2007 from the Bondevik government. That's what we're talking about. We're talking about government funds. The tolls aren't inside it. They also come to say that many projects that would not have seen today's light with the Progress Party – at least not with the Progress Party we have here in the Chamber – still see the light of the day because the Progress Party's politicians in the municipalities have a different view. That's why we get a bridge in Hordaland to open in November. We also get Oslopacket 3 – with tolls, not only for road construction, but actually also for public transport. It will be a future-right and good order for Oslo, with the success of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e970	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor below have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e975	Because of the lack of commitment to transport, traffic conditions in Fredrikstad are now quite chaotic, and I can assure everyone that the Progress Party has never voted in favour of toll financing in the matter we have today on the table. We'll deal with Rv. 108, a new bridge connection to Kråkerøy, which became part of Fredrikstad after the coercive merger adopted in the Stortinget in 1994. The old 1957 bridge does not have the capacity to take up the increasing traffic from residents and the large number of holiday guests, and it also limits the possibility of developing valuable areas, with commercial activities and housing. It is also important to ensure better preparedness. The majority of the local government, on the other hand, have gone in to apply for tolls in order to build a new mainland connection, but unfortunately large parts of the original project have been taken out. This means that there will be no much better traffic conditions in the rest of Fredrikstad. The first time the case was dealt with by the local council, the assumption was that this would be a split layer with a minimum of 50 pst. was to be granted by the State. This was important. It was also important for the local government that the other bridge should have no bomb. Especially the right was concerned about it. Now it looks like the state's share is not going to be more than 9 pst. This cannot be called a spice layer, nor can it be called a supplement to state funding as long as the state’s contribution is almost absent. In this case, the State contribution is so low that the State cannot count it as an expenditure item in the budget once but rather as a deferred income. The investigation section of the capital increase has made some rough calculations to show that the government will have direct tax and VAT revenue on the construction of this project itself, which amounts to approx. Eighty million. kr, i.e. twice what the state borrows. In relation to the population and the traffic base, the district has been deprived for far too many years when means of transport are to be distributed. Despite strong opposition from the people and proposals for referendums in the local government, this has been voted down to several times. Bombs shall be set up on the new connection, while at the same time putting a bomb on the old link, which the inhabitants have already disbursed with tolls. There is no other route, so in other words, the population is forced to travel through bombs to and from their homes and to the city. The state has waived all responsibility for the development of the national road network and leaves responsibility to the local politicians, who then apply for toll projects on behalf of the inhabitants but against the will of the inhabitants. Local politicians shall govern the municipality and have the right to have the municipal budget, but many questions arise as to whether it is right that they should also have an extended right to oblige citizens to finance projects for which the State is actually responsible. The people of Kråkerøy feel this deeply unfair, and they have protested against the toll financing both by holding a public meeting, writing reading articles and collecting signatures. But this has not affected those who sit with power. The Progress Party is forced in some municipalities. This is a pressure from above. The Central Party has in its programme that they oppose toll financing. The representatives of the centre party outside say they're against it. It is strange, then, that the Center Party almost ridicules the Advance Party, which is still trying to influence the matter, in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e990	It is gratifying that the decision to build a new Kråkerøjbru was taken today. It is gratifying that there was a rapid treatment when the matter came to the department, and that a rapid treatment has also been carried out here in Stortinget, so that this important project can be started. It is about the safety of the inhabitants of Kråkerøy and Håler, and it is about the possibilities for further development of important economic areas in Fredrikstad, because traffic is now choking the possibilities for further development. Yes, there is a local initiative behind this proposal – it is undeniable. It's the first part of a larger expansion in Fredrikstad, because this only solves a part of a larger problem. There is now an analysis of the next development steps, and it is going to be treated locally, and then it comes in centrally. The protests that have been — and it is clear that there are protests against toll financing — have also, and perhaps above all, been directed towards just taking this project. It has been unfair that a part of the population should be burdened with a project that will solve their problem first and foremost, but also part of the city's problem, and that one did not get a larger package at the same time. But the next steps are coming. There is now a strong commitment from the business community in Fredrikstad to put together both this project and the next projects that are coming, because you can see that without the development of the road network, traffic will strangle the possibilities for more sensible development and growth in Fredrikstad. Then we hear the spokespersons of the Progress Party, and it's not in any case where the Progress Party is so high and dark here in the Stortingen as in the case of tolls, that you use the term 'ran of the drivers'. It has obviously been accepted as a parliamentary expression – but it is a bit of a greeting to its party traps in Oslo when you use such an expression to adopt here in the Stortinget that we are going to finance a road bill partly with tolls. And I didn't know that the Progress Party locally is being forced to vote for something they're against. It is a new parliamentary principle which was unknown until Mr Giltun explained the vote locally. The proponents of the Party stress the need for development. But I do not remember that the Progress Party in its budgets has granted a single crown for road development in Fredrikstad in addition to what the majority has done. So they haven't taken that seriously. But the exciting thing now is that everything indicates that the proposal of the Progress Party to finance this through the revised national budget is being downgraded. So that's the alternative down. Then the Progress Party has one choice: they can say to the voters in Fredrikstad: either there will be toll financing and road, or there will be no toll financing and no way. Then they can no longer say that the Storting will pay it, because the option is down.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1005	The President has some doubts as to whether he should bring tolls to the pulpit!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1008	I had not really intended to take the floor in this discussion, but when I heard the President-in-Office's introduction, with some rough attacks, among other things. on my party trap Ulf Leirstein from Østfold, I felt it right to correct something that is obviously wrong. Firstly, some of the claims made about Eastfold toll companies here today, based on what the Directorate of Roads has said, have among other things. the chairperson – from the Workers' Party in Eastfold – strongly rejected in today's Fredriksstad Blad. There are false claims coming from the Directorate of Roads. That should be fully understood by the President-in-Office and not convey such claims here from this interlocutory. In the case of Moss-Horten, this is something that the Eastfold Progress Party has programmed for the current ageing period. It is a matter for which we have worked, and which has now received a warm agreement from the Right in Østfold and also corresponding parties on the other side of the fjord. Toll financing has not been taken into account, nor is it the intention of such a proposal. You will see this when this proposal has been put forward. We still hear from the Central Party Councils that the wit is evenly distributed in this country. But the money isn't! The centre party with its district policy has been a major driver for more money for districts, which goes beyond the populous municipalities. Among other things, they in Eastfold have become particularly vulnerable. We have previously gone out in Eastfold in cross-political terms and made a brochure called Eastfold – the Robbery Land. So it's a little striking how the argument from the government parties is here today. Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg are two municipalities in Eastfold with quite similar problems. Both of them have been forced to merge municipalities from the state, and they both have a bridge connection that divides the municipality into two. In Fredrikstad, a simple majority has been in favour of tolls, while in Sarpsborg, 46 out of 49 representatives have opposed tolls. There were three from the Christian People's Party who wanted a 50/50 solution with the state. This case we're going to come back to, and I notice the argument from the majority parties here today. I had hoped that the outcome could be different, but I see that when you want tolls, you use all sorts of reasoning to push the bill over to the car lists. That's something we can't stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1021	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 2413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1037	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that five lines of reply are given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1046	Let me start by thanking you for your cooperation in the matter. The proposers are the three parties that have been put into government in the previous period, and in my opinion this will be incorporated into a series of proposals that come about after the government itself has left. This proposal is somewhat similar to trying to relieve yourself of a responsibility that a purely actual one has, and I will come back to that. First, a little bit to the suggestions themselves – there are three suggestions. The only thing to do is to "explorate", that is, postpone, rebuild the Lysaker station, with the consequences that it can have. Then there's a proposal that's kind of an ideological proposal, where an organization for other companies, that is, privatizes the structure of the day. And it's interesting that one wants to continue the line that one had before. And then it's a proposal that the whole Big One has joined many times, and it's that one should have a universal design. It is even in the setting that a target person should work to get this done, not least within the transport chain. This proposal should in principle be transmitted, I thought, to the Government, and not be voted on, because everyone is a few in what it says, and actually writes it in the text of the setting. I have to say in terms of universal design that it's a matter that I'm getting tired of discussing, because I think it should be in any case. The majority fraction was just in Stockholm to look at, among other things. universal design there. No one's asking for that one. It's just the way it is, it's supposed to be, one doesn't have to impose it on anyone, because it happens automatically because the bureaucracy and the others are set to do that. Then, in my opinion, it's crazy and stupid that we still have to grips with this, and it's important that the Minister of Transport, other ministers and the Prime Minister's office grasp this issue and say: From now on, it's like this, we don't have to discuss this anymore, everything should be universally designed. The last time we had relationships with the airline purchase, which has nothing to do with our committee, but where one didn't have any bearing on this either. Now we have to get clear lines for this, so we don't have to pick it up multiple times. So to the disclaimer that the former government parties Right, Left and Christian People's Party put up. The SV Group has received a response from the department to this effect the last time. There was no one in those parties, when the case was for treatment, who lifted a single finger to get to universal design at Lysaker station. We can also see this document today with the last letter. The last day of September 15, 2005, had a subject day on universal design, when it was found that the Bondevik II administration had not imposed this prior to the meeting. After this meeting, nothing came from the Minister of Transport, from the Left, that universal design should be imposed. So the previous government didn't take up the thread, and the Minister of Transport from the Left didn't carry out any instructions. It didn't happen. As soon as the red-green government got in position, this got caught up in. The Minister of Transport took note of this and informed that one had to make sure that there was an arrangement and a fit for universal design as well as it could be easy to do. Something else, and what the proposers put forward, would lead to a postponement of 850 million against investments and contracts that had already been concluded. kr, and stop various projects and investments of SEK 7 billion on the west corridor. It's now, when Bondevik II doesn't clean up this, irresponsible. In the end, I just want to say – I repeat myself – that I hope we don't discuss this more, that there is actually a policy that everyone understands, including the bureaucrats. And then I know that when the new high-speed train comes, there will never be any problem associated with universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1068	This matter amazes me. What is the purpose of promoting a Document No? Eight proposals on a matter for which the previous government has full and complete responsibility for the outcome? Is there the need to wash your hands? It may not be intended to contribute to the implementation of a universal design of Lysaker station. This train went while the Bondevik government and the State Council from the Left were in charge, without trying to stop it. The Stoltenberg government, when it acceded, has tried to correct the results of the failure of the previous government to control the universal design of Lysaker station. This is well explained in the matter and from the Council of State in the papers. As you can see, this case has had a better outcome in terms of universal design with a new government, but it is not ideal. That the opposition parties are disappointed that the Minister of Transport advises against proposals for investigation, testifying to a bad conscience in relation to their own handling of the case when they had the opportunity to do something about it. In fact, they say indirectly even in the position that more information was needed, so that decisions on the conversion could have been taken on an adequate basis. In the setting, the Left, Right and Christian People's Party writes that they have weakened confidence that the Minister for Transport will give priority to universal design work and that the Minister for Transport ‘takes a position which represents a step backwards in the fight against discrimination against persons with disabilities’. It sings in glass when the opposition speaks in this matter. The basic planning processes, choices and decisions on Lysaker Station were carried out during the previous period. Then the representative was Tenden's party trap, Torild Skogsholm, Minister for Transport, and the Left, Right and Christian People's Party were put together in government. You should not think that when you read the proposal for a representative. The suggestion has the wrong address. In the setting, an overall committee is shown, among others. availability for all has been adopted as one of the five main objectives of the national transport plan. Multiplicity ‘Consequently, transport modes work actively and purposefully to promote universal design in all relevant matters and projects’. And then we're like, ‘The Committee expects the work on universal design and accessibility for all to be given high priority throughout the transport sector through obligatory plans of milestones’. This should be the focus behind this case. Finally, I would like to ask the representative Tende from the Left a few questions. The Lysaker station project was quality assurance under the previous government according to the State investment project quality assurance guidelines of more than 500 million. kr. It is referred to, inter alia: in the 2006 draft budget of the Bondevik II Government. Has the representative tended to think about why not the then political leadership of the Ministry of Transport during quality assurance discovered errors and shortcomings in relation to universal design? Did they think that the plans to build the station on a curve were good enough – then? We have also been made aware that the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Transport was briefed that Lysaker station had obvious weaknesses in relation to the goal of accessibility for all, among others. on a topic of universal design, and that the previous political leadership chose to move forward with the project, i.e. choose remedial measures instead of altering the plans. Does the Left, Right and Christian People's Party support the choice of the previous government? Why is not the Left and, for that matter, the Right and Christian People's Party more self-searching, instead of firing at the Council of Navarsete? Why not also use energy to find real measures, develop solutions and draw lessons from this matter, not least from what happened when the plans were made?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1097	It might have been interesting to go into Langeland's video on discussing the high-speed path, but I don't think we're going to do it right now. It's Lysaker Station we're discussing. I would first like to point out that accessibility for all has been adopted as one of the five main objectives of the national transport plan. It is therefore important that all transport operators work actively and specifically to ensure that we have a universal design. This case becomes a little special, because you see it a little bit like today's government parties and those representing the parties of the previous government use most of its energy to focus on who has done what, instead of focusing on what you can do to make sure that new Lying Station will meet the requirements you set as standard for a good and satisfactory universal design. For the Progress Party, it is most important to focus on what we can do to ensure that the new station should ensure that users with disabilities are also able to use Lysaker Station in a good, efficient and safe manner. I assume that's your intention to everyone. But when you look at how you express yourself in the form of a comment and also in the debate, we feel that there may be a little bit of other things that are the main focus, and not the focus on how to make sure that users get the best possible station, which satisfies a universal design. The Progress Party supports the proposal promoted in the case by the Christian People's Party, Right and Left, but we assume, of course, that the proposal will not delay the progress of when the work on a new Lysaker station is to be completed. For us, unfortunately, it may seem that there is a reluctance on the part of the Government that is the reason why one will not ask for an independent actor to have the opportunity to consider measures that can help the station, when it opens, to have a better and more correct universal design. It is also important to bear in mind that when we had a hearing on the NSB, several of the organisations that were in the hearing were very concerned about this with universal design. They felt that they had not been willing enough neither by the NSB nor by other actors to take the necessary level of universal design. Finally, I have to point out that it is a bit clever that we in Norway are unable to meet the universal design requirement, as it became clear, among other things. from several organisations at the hearing that in Sweden it is possible to do so. So we think it's a little strange that we can't design a new and modern railway station in a way that ensures that everyone, regardless of their functionality, can use it in the same way, when you can do it in our neighbouring country, Sweden, which has managed to solve the challenges. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1116	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1119	There will be no problems with universal design when the high-speed train arrives," says Hallgeir H. Langeland. No, there's only one problem, and that's that it probably can't stop at Lysaker station. That's a problem, because it's one of the country's most trafficked hubs and a big station. An overall opposition is disappointed by the Minister for Transport's refusal to our proposal. Lysaker station is one of the most used stations in Norway, and universal design should be a matter of course for new stations in 2007. I think we all agree. The railway station's work on the new Lysaker station is, in my opinion, a school example of how a powerful trade union ignores important aspects of a decision to collapse and pervades its will. The Railway Agency should obviously have requested the political leadership of the Ministry of Transport on the views of the Authority as to the universal design requirements and whether it was acceptable to the Ministry. When it is then revealed that one has failed to obtain the acceptance for its interpretation, an argument is used about the danger of delayed completion. Everyone knows how negative a postponement will be received, and the department gets its will. This matter is now becoming a boxing match between previous and current government parties. Then I am very pleased that the only party that has not sat in any of the two governments has given its support to the remarks of the former government. It is very nice that the Advance Party gives its support. What is the problem here is, in my opinion, simply that the railway works have ignored the signals that have arrived. They should be aware, as Hallgeir H. Langeland said, that universal design must be a matter of course. So we see that it's not universal design of Lysaker Station. One might say that the former government should do a better job, and that the current government should have made sure that things got right, but it is the Railway Agency that has the primary responsibility to ensure that this universal design decision is followed up. What's important to raise questions is the red-greens' no to look at the matter again. The solution now chosen will apply to all operators operating or likely to operate, to the station, to the root of the railway system and to the slightly forward-looking solution for which it is due. If it is to be opened up to railway companies other than NSB – NSB itself has been very sceptical about the additional bill they get from the fact that the Railway Agency has not done its job – and if other actors come in, Ofotbanen, Swedish SJ or others who would run Lysaker Station, then what? So then the railway companies get the bill, while the infrastructure provider, the Railway Agency, gets away. What about the EU technical requirements for stations intended to operate high-speed trains? Can the Minister of Transport here from Stortinget's pulpit answer if she wants the Railway Agency to roll over the bill for its loss on the NSB? How much will the adjustments cost NSB? How does the State’s railway authorities assess the solution now being adopted? The internal note received by the Minister for Transport from the NSB group leader Einar Enger on 4 August last year has become known to the proposers. The NSB is very clear here that the solution proposed by the Railway Agency is a poor solution. It is unpleasant as the Council of State to have to bear the burden of delay and extra costs for the station, but it is so important to build a station to last, which requires special material adaptations, that it should actually be costed. A railway station such as Lysaker, which is now being rebuilt, and which is to serve a modern railway network on the East for many, many years to come, should be in order and in line with the decisions taken by the Stortinget when it opens. This is a matter which, in my opinion, shows that there is a trade union that has run its course. Then the previous government has not done enough to intervene – I can admit – even though the meeting to which it refers was actually held after the elections, as far as I can see, on 15 September 2005. It should also be known to the representative of Langeland that when the red-greens actually won the election, perhaps there was no time for big, new political advances. The more important it was then that the new, efficient red-green government had taken the time to intervene in this before it was too late. So that didn't happen, and now we're here with no good solution for Lysaker Station.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1136	An overall committee assumes that transport modes are active and targeted for universal design in all matters and projects. All solutions must be adapted to people with disabilities. The Committee expects that access for all is a high priority throughout the sector, and the Committee agrees that the design of the new Lysaker station should have been better implemented. It is disappointing that we have not succeeded in facilitating the new station for everyone. That is why the Christian People's Party has made proposals together with the Left and Right to adapt the plans and the further development so that the new Lysaker station becomes as accessible as possible. We had hoped to do so without having to stop the ongoing construction work. I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party has always been concerned that the project should not be stopped, because we are fully aware that considerable progress has been made in the work. But we wanted remedial action or adaptation, as it says in the proposal, and best possible solutions. It is good that some measures have been taken. The railway works believe that these measures meet the universal design requirement up to the platform edge. I think we all agree that the universal design requirement does not end at the platform edge. After all, we have to get on the train from the edge of the platform. It is sad that a station on the Norwegian network built in 2007 does not ensure the accessibility of the train to anyone who wants it. Here, the clear goal of the Storting is not met. The Christian People's Party, by supporting the minority proposal, will give a clear political signal that universal design in the transport sector will be in place in new projects. It is an important political objective, and it is to be implemented in reality. We see clearly the need to develop accessibility standards for railway stations and materials, but also for other collective means of transport. We ask the Minister for Transport to pay attention to the subject, and we ask for the Stortinget to be briefed on the way to the work being done. We share the goal and the intention of universal organisation. Our common goal is well described in the initial notes that we agree on, at the very beginning of the setting. It's important that both the positions and opposition parties have the attention to universal accessibility, and that we on both sides follow up on the means we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1149	Universal design is about including. It is about creating physical and practical solutions that can be most widely used, regardless of any disability. Having a reduced function compared to an average person does not mean that one cannot work in all situations. There are physical and practical obstacles that help to reduce the potential of people with disabilities to achieve what they want. Often these obstacles are created by those who plan and draw constructions, because they do not think enough about how to achieve them for the most possible. We haven't really had the tradition of thinking about universal design. The scope is also relatively new. Nevertheless, there is still a change in attitude and universal design is being taken into account in several plans as one of the main objectives, including in national transport plans. Unfortunately, sometimes it slips, and it has done so in the planing process of Lysaker Station. Some processes come too far before such pairs are discovered, and so is the case in this case. If the project had been stopped, it should have happened during the Bondevik II administration. In this way, I am quite opposed to what both Langeland and Johansen say in their posts. These are major costs and delays, which will also affect the development of the new double track between Lysaker and Sandvika. That being said, I would like to stress the point that Irene Johansen made, that the most important thing now, is to learn from the failures that were made, and move on in the work of universal design. Therefore, I am pleased that the Ministry of Transport has asked the Railway Agency and the NSB to present how they will work to achieve universal design in the future. As I said, this is about including.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1160	The background to this proposal for a representative is that Lysaker Station is not organized for everyone regardless of their functionality, and at the same time an attempt to find out how this can be handled based on the situation we are facing. I see in response to questions from the representative Hallgeir Langeland that it is important for the Minister of Transport to slow down the work done by the Bondevik II government in this area, and at the same time put forward a statement that the matter was addressed when the current government was in place. I expect the Council of State in its statement here today to state what concrete steps have been taken to facilitate the conditions for those with impaired functioning. As stated in the proposal, the then State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Arnfinn Ellingsen of the Left, at a seminar on universal design on 15 September 2005, was made aware that Lysaker Station was planned to be designed in violation of the Stortingen’s universal design requirements and that the station would in practice be inaccessible to a number of groups of people due to a large gap between train and platform. The information provided during this meeting led Ellingsen to a meeting with the Railway Agency in the Ministry of Transport on 22 September 2005, which gave clear signals that the department wanted a review of the Lysaker station. In a subsequent letter from the Ministry of Transport to the Railway Agency, the Ministry asked for a separate statement on the plans of the Agency for the application of the universal design principle. The reason it was not taken into account in relation to new regulatory plans was that political leadership in the Ministry of Transport was led behind the light of the railway system, when they informed that the bridge over the Lysaker River was at peace, and that the station could not be changed accordingly. I have been informed of this by then State Secretary Arnfinn Ellingsen, and it can supplement some of the information to Langeland and be a response to the representative Johansen. I think this matter is sad for several reasons. At Stortinget, in the county and in the municipalities, people have talked for a long time and warmly about the organisation. In the United Kingdom — from 1999 onwards and in the BRA programme in connection with NTPs — it has been stressed that the collective network must be designed in such a way that it is accessible to all groups of travellers, through the design of holding sites and stations. The concept of universal design was used as a clarification and a clarification that everyone should be able to use the ordinary offer to the greatest extent possible, without the need for assistance. In parallel with this, Lysaker Station has been planned and started without the planners caring to hear what the politicians are saying. I think this is very serious. We cannot have it so that messages from filling and padding do not seem to reach those who are working on the matter. Are we talking to deaf ears? Who's in charge? Do the institutions live their own lives? In that case, it is a violation of proud democratic traditions. In parallel with many and long posts on universal organisation here in this room, the Railway Station has planned and built Norway's third largest station in a curve that leads to difficulties for drivers in having an overview of the whole train set, and the gap between trains and platforms creates difficulties for large sections of the population. I know this station well, and I've got a lot of input from engineers that the station could be built more straighter than it is now. I heard that the railway company said that the station had to be moved to Oslo, but that is why it has been so important to get other actors to look at this matter. However, it will not be the Council of State and the Government parties. The setting reads as follows: ‘Achievements related to accessibility could have been highlighted much earlier if this had been a political priority. Instead, it may appear that the matter has not been raised until open debate for political reasons.’ This is with respect to report an insinuation that I believe the government parties could keep up for good. I would strongly reject this and add that frustration was quite great when the State Council and State Secretary of the Bondevik II government discovered what was about to happen, namely that the Railway Agency had not dealt with political signals about universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1188	The planning of the new Lysaker station has been ongoing since 1991, and the current plans have been adopted following extensive local policy management. The plans for the reconstruction of today’s station were therefore mainly laid down before the management of the National Transport Plan by the Stortinget in 2004. The Ministry of Transport gave guidelines to the Etas on the development of action programmes following the NTP 2006–2015 — during the previous political lease. In this context, universal design was assumed to be an ongoing premise in the etats' work on the action programme, in dialogue with the user participation groups. The focus on universal design has significantly increased following the 2004 decision to collapse and the Government's action plan, Better Infrastructure, Rolling Stock, Active Logistics Improvement – BRA – presented in spring 2006. When the current political leadership in the Ministry of Transport took over the autumn of 2005, we took the case to see what measures could be taken to make the new station the best possible for all groups of travellers. In the light of the meeting with the Railway Agency and the train operators on 21 November 2005 and the ministry’s handling of the case in December 2005, it was clear that the planning of the Lysaker station had already come so far that a change or relocation of the station would lead to significant delays, increases in construction costs and/or lower customer base. At the same time, there would be no guarantee that an alternative location of the station would provide an adequate solution for safe, self-absorbed/accident travellers with special needs. After careful consideration of different options and after consultation with the Railway Agency and the State Railway Authority, the Ministry decided to ask the Railway Agency to continue its work within the regulatory plans adopted. The main reason why the department did not recommend moving the station was that this would lead to an increase in costs in the hundreds of trillions class, and delay the completion of the station by up to several years, with the great negative consequences this would have on the traffic flow in the west corridor. In a letter dated 21 December 2005, the Ministry sums up its assessments and guidance to the Railway Agency on the further work on new Lysaker station. The railway works included: asked for effective and targeted measures at the station to facilitate the use of the station by all travellers, including those with special needs. I would strongly like to distance myself from the representative Hoksrud's claim that all the forces are used to play blacks with the previous government. I focus on the following: In 2006, following instructions from the Ministry in its letter of 21 December 2005, the Railway Agency assessed and recommended a number of measures aimed at reducing the distance between trains and platform edges. In accordance with the requirements of the State Railway Authority, the Railway Agency has undertaken that the maximum unsecured distance between trains and the platform edge shall not exceed 25 cm. In my letter to the Transport and Communications Committee of 13 February 2007 in connection with the handling of this matter, the action to be carried out at Lysaker Station has been undertaken in order to achieve the best possible accessibility for passengers with special needs. I can assure the Committee that work on universal design and accessibility for all is now a priority for the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry has, among other things: asked the Railway Agency to draw up a plan of milestones on how the principle of universal design of railway infrastructure can be followed up. The Ministry has also asked the Railway Agency to pay attention to the need for measures that can contribute to the best possible interaction between infrastructure and materials. The aim is to provide such a comprehensive plan for the Storting in conjunction with the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. In the case of proposal 1 of Document No: The 8 proposal, points to the minority in the setting, among others. that such a distribution would not necessarily require a stop to the distribution work. To that I would remind you that the project has now come so far that tracks 1 and 2 will already be opened this summer. So I can't help but realize that such an arrangement would only have theoretical interest in that case. It's okay to love, but to put this station around now, without stopping at work, is pure wishful thinking. So to the criticism that I and the Government have been inconvenient in the case of Lysaker Station: it wasn't easy to take, I'd like to admit it, but our assessment was that when we got into the government offices in the autumn of 2005, the plans for Lysaker Station had already come so far that the negative consequences of stopping the plans were just too big. My starting point has therefore been, after the decision to continue working within the current control plans was drawn, to find the best possible remedial measures given that the station is now once where it is located. As far as I know, the Ministry of Transport has not given a signal to the Railway Agency during the previous political lease, a cork before or after the much mentioned trade day at the Railway Station on 15 September 2005, that it was time to start a new regulatory planning process for the Lysaker station. I therefore think it would be wrong to criticize me and this government for the new Lysaker station being lying where he is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1212	I hear the council says she has not contributed to this becoming a blackmail game, and I am very pleased about that. But I notice that at least the party SV has wanted to make this a black player game. They sent a question to the department that they first sent outside the committee, and which, secondly, was made known to the committee members today – that is, long after it was released – for one purpose: to try to put the previous government in a bad light, instead of wanting to get good solutions at Lysaker station. That criticism goes to SV. But the Council of State is not responsible for SV, so I should rather ask: With regard to the increased costs now incurred by the NSB and possibly by the airline and other new operators, if new operators arrive, will Lysaker Station be linked to the fact that Lysaker Station is not universally designed, does the Council of State consider it appropriate for railway companies to cover it, or does the Council of State see other solutions to cover the increased costs incurred by the train operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1217	First I want to say that the answer to SV went from the department today, and it was specifically told that it would also be distributed to the rest of the committee, so at least they got the information at the same time. In the case of whom to pay for any adjustments to material, it is not taken into account. It is a matter that needs to be discussed with the company and the Railway Agency. I suggest that we have good and tidy discussions about it. It has been a theme, but it has not been taken so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1224	One of the proposals of the opposition parties is that the Stortinget asks the Government to brief the Government on the work of accessibility for all through universal design for all railway station facilities during the planning period of the Norwegian transport plan. [[NTP]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1229	The State railway network currently has 357 stations in use for passenger services. They are established over a period of more than 150 years under different establishment criteria and different standard requirements. Therefore, the main challenge for the realisation of access for all and universal design lies in adapting and improving existing stations to new accessibility requirements. This government has increased the frame to the railway infrastructure by 50 pst. in the 2007 budget. It is a formidable increase in relation to what previous governments have done. At least it makes it possible to achieve the goal of universal design that separates faster than one would have done if the previous government had been sitting with the frames that then rallied. So the focus is there. There's going to be a plan for it. It's going to make miles. In all respects: even with this government's active investment on the railway, it will have to take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1234	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1239	I would like to take this opportunity to commend the proposers for promoting this proposal. It is very regrettable that the position, and in particular the rapporteur, is trying to ridicule this proposal. The rapporteur says that this is a typical proposal that is promoted when you are in opposition. It will be hopeless if we are not able to make proposals that point to obvious weaknesses in public planning. I would also like to commend the previous government parties for being so large that they can admit that it was made a mistake even during the previous government. I'm sure the representative of Langeland has a good deal left. This is an important issue, as far as universal design is concerned. This also applies to Lysaker Station, which is one of the largest public areas in the country. At a station where there is so much traffic, it is very important that you get the conditions well arranged for the travellers. This applies not only to Lysaker station, almost all train stations in the Oslo and Akershus area need upgrades and that it is designed for all types of travellers, but also to facilitate good parking conditions for travellers, because it is a prerequisite for people to choose the train as a means of transport. As far as Lysaker station is concerned, I have mentioned that it is one of the most traffic stations in this country. This is a station that will continue to be under great pressure. We now get the big expansion at Fornebu – a brand new city in Fornebu that will also be at Lysaker station. You can ask yourself when the next repair of Lysaker station will have to be done when you are not able to do this properly when you first start. What this case shows – and it is sad – is how bad we in this country are planning, it shows that there are obvious shortcomings in public planning and that we are not able to do the job properly when we first start.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1250	Universal design is one of the most important things we can do to include everyone in our society. All shall be able to use the same equipment; all shall be able to drive the same trains. But tradition and perception of what is fine and aesthetically correct often get in the way. I'm standing, for example. now on a completely wrong speaker’s chair. The majority has a pulpit that should be for everyone – none of the representatives today have chosen to use it. It might say a little bit about how we all view the use of universal design. Then I notice all the criticism coming against our government and our council. The right Trond Helleland sneaks out that you could use a few extra kroner at this station. Our government actually builds stations where the previous government was more busy cutting the strings for them. On 15 September 2005, we had won the election, but it did not prevent Kristin Clemet from subsequently approving a large number of private schools she knew was against the policy of the new government. It might say something about who was the acting party in the government. I also notice that it is the Right who now says that they can well bear part of the responsibility, while the Left stresses that here they are led behind the light of the railway works and almost trickled up into the throat. The Minister of Transport in this government is now showing that she is taking this seriously. She has also taken action against the Railway Agency, which she made clear. We have to trust, even though we're from different parts, that we're actually doing what we're saying we're going to do. The time after the 2005 elections was the most important thing for us to get money for the projects that the previous government had started. Should we then also take the time to re-guarantee them, I can guarantee that from the opposition it had become quite a big memory room, so to speak, because we did not continue the projects. Perhaps the strategy of Left Torild Skogsholm was that this station should never be built, as she so obviously had no budgets to continue the expansion she herself had started. I must agree with the rapporteur that this is an opposition proposal. Dialogue would be the right thing to do here. However, the most important thing in this case is to show that you are being voted down, in order to be able to sit on your high horse afterwards, when you deliberately suggest exactly how the Council of State is going to exercise its authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1267	Let me start by clarifying an open misunderstanding, because SV was responsible for not sending questions through the committee. The problem was also that the committee would not send this question. The committee secretary said it was impossible to send that question from the committee's side. And as the wise party SV is, send us it from SV's group. So to the representative of Greece, I just want to say that it is an open misunderstanding when he claims that we have not done so – the answer is that we have not been allowed to do so. Then to the representative of Kielland Asmyhr. I am very pleased that the Progress Party also uses some of this evening to talk about the railway. So far it's basically just about tolls. For several hours now, the meeting has been focused on the Progress Party's efforts against tolls. Then it was very good to get one who was busy with railway and universal design in the end. So the point was that one was busy looking backwards. No, not at all – but one must, for example. Ripping into that progress batch, which was able to put in place 1 million. kr on road betting in the course of three budgetary conciliations, did nothing of a universal design when they were put in place. It's important that people think about history and not just come with populist play in the short term. Then one has to take the realities that are. And if there's little money for the representatives of the Progress Party, which says they're $850 million. kr for which contracts have been concluded, we can only forget, and the 7 billion kr must wait to invest in the railway, then it might have been a road anyway a talk about when a talk about the railway once. Finally, the case spokesman and the plural party are very busy looking forward, so we don't have to discuss universal design. As I said in my post earlier, we have just been to Stockholm. Universal design is not a theme in Sweden. Nor should there be a theme in Norway. That's why it's really a challenge for the red-green government to do the opposite of what the previous government did, to clear up the issues related to universal design. It didn't Left, it didn't Right, and it didn't Christian People's Party. I mean – and I'm going to say – that it should be done by the red-green government. Not least when building high-speed trains to reduce pollution in Norway, it must be universal in design.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1276	I take the word again – for two reasons. The one is that I want to establish that it wouldn't be possible to achieve universal design if one had placed the station where he is today. With the material we have in Norway, where freight trains and passenger trains run the same stations, it is hardly possible to achieve a universal design – even if the station had a doctor in a straight line. That's what we see at other stations, and it's a big challenge for us. This has been done in a letter to the Committee dated 13 February 2007. Realities have to be taken over, either from one side or the other. The second reason I asked for the floor again is that there is one moment that drowns in the debate tonight. When you listen to the debate, you can get the impression that we're building a bad station. We don't. This is a new, great and modern station that will be better for travellers in any way than today's station is. And for those who need special arrangements, the new station will be a completely different station from today's. It's worth it. upgrading the access to the stations in the universal design of the access to the platform – lift, escalators and ramps good labelling platform with greater length and area, with heat, climate protection, contrast marking, slip protection, leieljos osb. We can't completely eliminate what we should have done, simply reducing the distance from the platform to the train. But, as I said, reducing the distance to what he should have been if we had a universal design – i.e. 7.5 cm horizontally and 5 cm vertically – would not have dealt with a station in the straight line either. These are the realities to which we must stick in the debate. There will be a new and great station, which will serve a lot of passengers in their journey to and from work and other activities. I like the new Lysaker station being finished, and I am absolutely sure that he will be a decent and good station for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1303	It's getting late – and I'm about to take the train via Lysaker Station home to Drammen – so I guess I shouldn't make such a long post. But after the contributions of Langelands and Wickholm, it is necessary to take the floor. I think the Council of State answers well in this matter. She actually takes hold of the facts and discusses them, while the representatives who are set to defend the government's policy are only concerned with hanging out the proposers and talking about the snow that fell last year – instead of looking forward. I think that is disappointing, especially by two representatives who are so busy with the railways, who are so concerned about the environment and about the adaptation of people with disabilities – which I thought they were actually. It might have been nice if the representatives had made some constructive input and suggestions on how this problem could be solved. The council says it's impossible to solve the problem. That is what the Railway Agency says, and that is, of course, the State Council of Navarsete is dealing with. That is precisely why we say in the draft representative that we want ‘an independent actor’ to look at this. The representative tended to be concerned that several people had made the impression that it is actually possible to do something about this problem — with this challenge. But it doesn't want the majority to care about it. We have no desire to postpone this great station, with air conditioning etc. We have a desire to get this station so great that people with disabilities can also use it. There is the problem, where the challenge lies – and we want to do something about it. We want to put this under debate – and under scrutiny. That's not what the government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1316	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1329	The store then goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1337	13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Bøhler, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 3, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 5-8, by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 10, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 11-13, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party The proposal No will first be voted on. 11-13, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1394	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to lower the municipal proportion of users with high needs for care to 20 per cent.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1409	There will be a vote on proposal No. 9, from Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that in all hospital children’s wards there is an employee who holds an advisory function for families who are expecting or have had a disabled child.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1424	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 5-8, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1460	There will be a vote on proposal No. 4, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for a school holiday offer for older children with disabilities in order to ensure active leisure time for their children and to allow parents to combine work and family life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1475	There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requires the Government to carry out an assessment of the consequences of removing long-term hospital space from its list in combination with the creation of multiple hospital medical positions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1490	There will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the establishment of Ethical Hospital Committees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1505	There will then be voting alternately between parts of the recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with its own case in connection with St.prp. [[2007-2008]] No Add
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1577	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind the recommendation on these points.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1613	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik presented four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: The government is asking the Government to submit a plan for the conversion of Norwegian care for the elderly, so that the government is responsible for keeping the money with the user and covering the costs of care.The government is asking for the investigation of the RUG system to be launched for implementation.The government is asking for a clear and unambiguous definition of what can be done to ensure that an offer can be considered a happy care and care provision.The government asks the UK Government to submit a notification on how the objective of being an offer for happy care and care for 25 per cent of the population over 80 years in the period up to 2030 can be achieved.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1630	These proposals and recommendations from the Committee will be replaced by an alternative. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:34 [[2005-2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1650	There will be a vote on proposals from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left submitted by the Odelstingen meeting on 6 March 2007 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 46)]] «The Government asks the Government to submit such a regulation as is mentioned in Section 8 and Section 8a of Law 15 June 2001 No. 53 on compensation in the event of injury to patients, etc., for the Storting for treatment before it is put into action.» The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind the proposal, so the president assumes that the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1733	In Case No. 5 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1756	During the debate Arne Sortevik presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Enhancement of rv 255 as described in St.prp. No 35 to 203 million. 2006-krone is carried out by state resources and after progress as mentioned in the proposal. [[2006-2007]] The size of the budget will require the necessary increase in the budget. 1320 is entered in the Revised National Budget. Development of Fv 315 and new county road link between E6 and Fv 312 at Storhove are carried out by county and municipal funds and with the necessary coordination with measures of Rv 255.’ There will be no substitute between this proposal and the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1790	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The development of a new Kråkerøybru on rv 108 as described in St.prp. No 41 to 470 million. 2007-krona is carried out by state resources and after progress as mentioned in the case. [[2006-2007]] The size of the budget will require the necessary increase in the budget. 1320 to be entered in the revised national budget.’ There will be no substitute between this proposal and the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1827	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud has presented three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-2.ana.ud2539e1940	This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
