ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e274	Honourable co-representatives! Former coroner Arnt Goddleik Hagen died on May 27th, 78 years old. Hagen was born on 17 August 1928 at the home farm in Torvik, Romesdal, where he grew up with seven siblings. He was educated as a civil agronomist at the State School of Small Farms in Asker in 1953 and got his first job as a master's agronomist in the West. In the years 1955-58 he was the head of the Nord-Norway sales team in Harstad and Vadsø, before returning to the home state and Molde, where he lived for the rest of his life. Hagen worked as a disponsor in More and Romsdal Eggsentral from 1958 and formally until 1973, but it was after all political work that required all his large labour force. In 1950 he was 22 years old in the political work of the Young People’s Party of the Builders. From 1959 to 1964 he was the head of this organization, which in 1962 changed its name to the Centerungsverband. He became alternate to Stortinget from 1961 and was elected permanent representative from 1965 to 1977. In his years at Stortinget, he was, among other things, Member of the Committee on Transport, Justice, Maritime Affairs and Fisheries and the Committee on Municipal and Environmental Protection. Hagen came to Stortinget at the same time as the government change from Gerhardsen to Borten, and soon got big and important tasks in the Center Party group, first as an alternate, later as a member and vice-chairman. Later, he also became a member of the Central Board of the Centre Party and chairman of the Programme Committee. He had a close relationship with Prime Minister Borten – a friendship that lasted as long as the Away lived. After 12 years at Stortinget, Hagen chose to leave national politics. He applied for and got the position as head of development in More and Romesdal – a position he had from 1977 to 1994. Here he was able to expand his efforts to produce positive and concrete results in the form of strengthened enterprises and new jobs, including in the outreach municipalities – a work he writes about in the book he published in 1998, with the striking title «In the fight for the districts». The involvement of the weak in society and for the districts marked Hagen's political commitment and work throughout all years. He was shown this through his long-standing role as a magnificence representative, later in a number of public administrations and councils. From 1961 to 1983, Hagen was a member of the District Development Fund's board of directors, for the last 12 years as Vice President. We are grateful for the considerable social effort that Arnt Goddleighkeit Hagen has made, and are at peace with his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e295	An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative of Thore A. Nistad from 14 June onwards. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Morten Ørsal Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e316	Morten Ørsal Johansen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e321	It is a pleasure to be able to make representations from the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Kåre Fostervold, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt and myself to introduce a tax incentive/tax deduction scheme for enterprises implementing continuing training measures that provide formal competence for employees. It is also a pleasure to present a proposal for a representative from Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt and myself to extend the framework for the gift enhancement scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e328	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and No 2 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e357	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e368	In the course of the year’s negotiations between the State and the two agricultural organisations, the agreement provided farmers with an increased income framework of 975 million. kr. Plus 173 is going to be million. kr in disbursed funds for the current year came to be disbursed. The entered item provides an income increase of about 10 pst. – or NOK 17 000 per year. annual work. The main objective of the agricultural agreements is, of course, to facilitate the production of safe and clean food. At the same time, agriculture should contribute to employment and housing throughout the country. We're going to make use of the whole country! To this end, we shall continue to facilitate local food production and a decentralised food industry. We want short-range food, i.e. there shall be a short distance between soil and table. The food doesn't have to travel half the globe until he comes to us as a consumer. We have to take care of and develop Norwegian traditional food, with its taste differences and its variety. The value creation programme, which is part of the agricultural agreements, is important in that context. In the interests of our own supply, but also of food security and preparedness, we should, as far as possible, be self-sufficient in the food products that we have natural conditions to produce. I leave the respective parties to do their best for their views and policies. Let me also inform you that the reindeer agreements, which we deal with as part of the agricultural agreements, will be the case-speaker, Arne L. Have a good time in a later article. The Red-Green Party is concerned that the country should have a varied agricultural area. We're going to have different forms of co-operation, and it's going to be room for single-handed people. Full-time farmers shall have an income to live off, in line with other occupational groups. All garden resources shall provide the basis for this. We get fewer, but more efficient farmers. Now there are less than 50,000 farmers here to land. The area per site. use has doubled in a few years. The number of animals has also increased – or flattened – for some groups. Automation and efficiency have been speeded up. Everything isn't what it was before the war, even if someone seems to believe it. When a right-hand party reads its comments on the agricultural structure, it can get the impression that agriculture is losing on all fronts. Quite rightly, agriculture has major challenges, but there has to be black paint. The Labour Party still has faith in Norwegian agriculture. Although the number of farmers has fallen, I would remind you that the reduction in agricultural land is very small, only 0.9 pst. in the last 10 years. We produce far more meat than ever, but we also consume more – and we throw more! For me, it's a crossroads when the central statistical agency's tables show that the average food waste is 250 kg per. person per person years. At least it's not the food budget that weighs on the household budget. We're just using a little bit of trajectory. NOK 11 per year. one hundred pieces for the purchase of food. In my view, it is a paradox that we are importing agricultural products that we have good intentions to produce ourselves. We should be able to regulate the production of these products in such a way that we on the one hand avoid overproduction, and on the other hand we have large imports at other times. It's thoughtful that today we are importing sheep from New Zealand, because if there's anything we could be self-sufficient in, it must be Norwegian sheep meat. As we improve the conditions for keeping sheep, we in the Labour Party have a hope that this year's agreement is an incentive for economic operators. In the agricultural budget, the parties have been able to change the basis of calculation of the item. This means that real interest rates are calculated in the same way as in many other sectors. Technical calculations take up the height of the fast changes made to agriculture. I agree with the Minister of Agriculture that this should have been done years ago. I do not expect everyone to be content with everything in this entry. But that's a good idea. After two years with a red-green government, we have reversed the trend in agriculture. There's room for both big and small. Optimism is back in Norwegian villages. Farmers are paid more for their production. Measures that have long been used by organisations are strengthened. I am thinking in particular of the country-wide agricultural vicar scheme, which may have been good in some municipalities, but which is lacking in most of the municipalities. Overall, welfare arrangements are strengthened. Especially young people who are either about to take over a garden or are in a young child's situation are busy with this. Farmers are also entitled to leave, so that young people who grow up on a garden can also get a few days off for other experiences, as well as schoolmates. I am thinking about the extra advantage, where the animals are more likely to get out of the house and graze down the woods and the wild, and are thus dampened for re-growning. With the tools that are now in the agreements, we ensure that agriculture delivers clean and good food, while at the same time giving nature freshness as our common good – for recreation and nature experience. Agriculture is also the basis for much of Norwegian tourism. The NHO and other umbrella organizations have been very clear about this. Recycling is a growing problem, literally. Earlier this week, VG had a large look up called "Norway Grows Again". In a few decades, open landscapes have become the pure jungle. The reason for this is a greatly reduced grazing practice. A warmer climate saw extra speed on regrowing. VG's image says more than words and shows what happens to the cultural landscape when it is not used. Through this year's agricultural agreement, we hope to reverse this trend. The best way to keep the forest in check is to send the animals out on pasture. Besides, it's good animal welfare. I am therefore pleased with the strong increase in the grazing premium of 72 million. kr. In addition, the translation requirement for production bonuses is reduced from NOK 30 000 to NOK 20 000 per year. enterprises, which are very positive, and which in particular benefit the small ones. It is also important that we provide complementary industries so that agriculture can make use of its resources for the benefit of local communities. A living garden gives a lack of opportunities, activities and meaningful work tasks, proximity to animals, nature, culture and human beings. In particular, urban agriculture has a large market for so-called 'In on Tunet' services, which are about creating activities and jobs that are tailored to different people's needs, starting with the garden. A garden can also be an important learning venue, an alternative classroom that gives teaching a new dimension. This will also increase young people’s knowledge of agriculture. We have a goal in the Soria Moria statement of 15 pst. organic production by 2015. Ambitious? Yes, but not impossible. The drug is more stimulation for conversion, and people demand more than the drug supply is. A bottleneck is organic cereal production and that the cost of power feed has gone into the world over several years without one having taken action there. There is a lot of focus on day-to-day environmental action. There will be a lot of big and smaller action on all fronts, if we're going to reach the measures that the red-green have seen. Forestry is and may be an even bigger contributor there. Today the forest takes up about 50 pst. of CO2 emissions in Norway. With the leadership provided by this Government, which is strengthened by this agreement, both biofuels and biofuels from the forest can really be a good contribution. There are many possibilities — it has been identified that there may be between 5,000 and 10,000 new jobs there. Forest management, forest planting and conservation of natural resources are important. I have to agree with the Council of State that we can house off the forest where other countries have to use cultivated land to achieve their goals. The WTO will be the biggest challenge that agriculture and the food industry have ever faced. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said from this Chair on Tuesday that the outcome of the negotiations could be just around the corner – or far away. The parties ate their positions. We have to use all the tools that you can when the agreements are in port. It's not on the will to do it, and I find reason to quote from the Soria Moria statement, where one says that the Government will have ‘an overall review of the impact of WTO negotiations on Norwegian agriculture. In a close dialogue with industry, we will provide the basis for the design of instruments in line with the objectives of the Storting for agricultural policy and international commitments’. All countries have the right to a certain level of self-production, and organic production does not deal with the agreements. The framework for the year’s agreement and its distribution is largely in line with Norway’s commitments in the WTO, and in other words has a ‘cleared’ device. The increase in welfare arrangements, the increase in funds to provide a good trigger system and the increase in the numbers of animals that benefit largely from pastures and roughage are examples of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e420	The rapporteur was at the end of his contribution to the WTO Agreement. This settlement is described as a very good settlement, perhaps the best thing ever. It has also been described as a change in course. I must therefore assume that this settlement is forward-looking and addresses the new challenges that we will face. That is why I wondered whether the rapporteur-in-Office can explain the offensive action taken in this settlement that addresses the challenges posed by a new WTO agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e427	As I said in my contribution, much of what is actually clear in the future WTO agreement is all implemented in this peanut agreement. Neutral measures and pasturage were something I mentioned, and the agri-vicar schemes, everything that has to do with ecological efforts – there are several measures that we have already started to work against. But the most important thing is the statement I quoted from Soria Moria that when an agreement is ready – and it’s obviously not yet, even if it can be close to or far away, as it were – the parties and the government will merge to find the solutions that will make this the least painful way for a future agricultural industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e434	In the past, there was a certain community between the Right and the Workers' Party when it came to agricultural policy. Both parties considered agriculture to represent many important functions in society, but also agreed that there was a need for modernisation, more profitable and more robust use in agriculture. Today, I see that the Workers' Party has become quite passive in the agricultural policy debate, and that it is Norway's Bondelag and the Center Party that governs what is happening in the agricultural sector. The representative Eng just made a post that strongly defends the solutions and ideas of the Centre Party in the field of agriculture. For example, the government is very measured and lukewarm in relation to co-operation, which I think most perceive as the most forward-looking form of milk production in Norway. Does the Labour Party not see any need to reform agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e441	In line with the representative, Hansen, the Workers' Party is concerned that one should have a salary and a lack of skills in the industry. I repeat what I said: we want to take the height to have co-operation, and that it should be payable to those who run the individual company. We haven't hidden that we think there should be room for both parts. We haven't looked at brake pads for someone who wants to have co-operation, not to start with it. It can be seen very clearly in the number material. No, it's about. 2000 co-operatives on milk production. It has accelerated fairly quickly with the statements that are there. Otherwise, I don't quite know that when the representative says I'm presenting the Central Party's policy. No, the government party is united on what we are presenting today. I actually think that internal discussions we've done, to the extent that three different parties can. We agree on what has been presented here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e448	In the speech to the Annual Meeting of the Norwegian Farmers' Association, the farmer said that even if there was agreement on the agreements, the result was not satisfactory, from the point of view of the Farmers' Association. He gave reasons for this. that what they achieved was absolutely legitimate, but they didn't go far enough. He also says that it is not their job to bring down the expectations that politicians themselves have created. In a letter to the Food Committee, the Farmer argued that the bet must continue the coming years, i.e. an additional increase in the frame, while the government party on its side claims that the year's declaration is a full follow-up of promises and promises. So there's a big difference between how the actors themselves perceive it, and how the government parties perceive it. My question then is: Does the case-speaker think that the industry has misunderstood and overinterpreted the promises made by the Government and the government party in recent times?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e455	No, but it's a good thing for everyone who negotiates, that one usually falls in the middle. The demand and supply are probably almost never coincident, based on other negotiations that we know about. On the question of whether this is a satisfactory agreement, the answer is yes, the Soria Moria statement is based on four years. We thought that we have shown – both in terms of crowns and direction – that we are going the road indicated in the Soria Moria declaration. We will continue to do that in the two years that we have ahead of us too. I believe that agriculture itself should experience and see that there is another agricultural policy now being pursued, but that there should only be a commitment to the big ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e462	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e466	The agricultural settlement of the year must be a disappointment to all the agricultural actors who believed in the promises made by the red-green parties before the 2005 elections and who they have placed on the market even after they entered the government position. Many have believed in the promises that agriculture would receive an increase in income from public budgets that would give agriculture billions in income growth almost overnight. They must be disappointed today, and they have every reason to be. There's good reason to say that the red-green parts have led the whole industry behind the light. It also witnessed the silence that has occurred after the year's agreement was concluded, with a result of well below NOK 1 billion. There is reason to ask, where have all the whoreholes of the agreement become? Where have all the readings – and shelves – been boasting of this year’s settlement? Where has it become of Lundtigen? It's been quite quiet. I think it is significant, and it shows that there is a great dissatisfaction with this year's agreement. Only a few critics who have already run into the shadows have the courage to stand up, because they have nothing more to risk. Former Secretary-General of the Norwegian Bondelag, Amund Venger, and the courageous former leader of the Small Farmer Team, Anne Osland, have dared to say so. When the organisations submit a claim of SEK 2.1 billion, and get well under half, I understand that the disappointment is great. But the peasant team can't ever break negotiations in an agricultural settlement where the centre party is the counterparty, because the ties are so tight. The biggest mistake the government has made is not to tell the truth to the farmers. The Labour Party, which itself claims to have an offensive programme for the public sector, needs the labour that agriculture can contribute to. Nor can the Labour Party accept that new billions are being pumped into agriculture when the challenges lie ahead in many other sectors. This is why the Labour Party believes it is right that agriculture should give up approximately. 2 000 annual work per year years. The Progress Party is strongly critical of the agricultural policy that has been pursued in the post-war period and which is still wanted to be continued by the current government. We cannot therefore in any way stand behind the negotiated agricultural agreement. It does not offer any new means of agricultural policy — despite the fact that both agriculture and other agricultural-related actors have asked for a change of course in agricultural policy. The policy that has been against agriculture for many years is a socialist experiment that has helped the Norwegian farmer to get caught up in a network and a system that is now almost impossible to get out of. Agricultural policy is characterised by a strong drive to regulate the agricultural industry down to the smallest detail, where public bureaucrats and very detailed legislation have taken over the direction of agricultural development. The management of individual farmers over their own property and employment has been lost, and farmers are today more to be regarded as public employees and public policy practitioners than as self-employed in the food production industry, as they should have been. This has led to a lack of creativity, ability to invest and a desire to take risks in large parts of agriculture. The agricultural agreement system has become so complex and complicated that, apart from the central bureaucracy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, it is possible to get involved in all aspects of the system and fully understand it. Nor is there any other country in the OECD area that has found it appropriate to practise a system of an agricultural agreement. There is good reason to believe that the extensive agricultural legislation creates a huge bureaucracy both in the public administration and in the industry, which binds on large resources that could have been used for the value creation of agriculture and moved into the industry as income, rather than public transfers as today. The State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen does not want to respond to the number of public employees associated with agriculture in state, county and municipal administrations, despite the fact that both the press and researchers have been able to demonstrate that the number is between 5,000 and 10,000. Small is done to reduce this number. There will be a strong reduction in the protection of imports in the wake of international developments through WTO negotiations. My impression is that Norway and the G10 countries have little sympathy for their desire to protect their national agriculture. These are resource-intensive countries pushing the developing countries ahead. It is immoral for the rich world to close its borders to products from developing countries, in order to protect a national agriculture which is really of little importance for employment. The Progress Party believes that we must take advantage of the time we now have to convert both agriculture and the food industry into a day-to-day world of much tougher competition from abroad. We have to use the time we now have, to avoid too much upheaval when an agreement is in place. Robust production based on market economy criteria must be top priority and must be developed before import protection falls. The Norwegian food industry is under pressure from abroad and it is important that Norwegian agricultural policy ensures that the industry receives raw materials at a competitive price. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to structuralise agriculture so as to reduce unit costs. While industry is competitive vis-à-vis foreign operators in terms of processing and industrial production, raw materials costs are too high in relation to the costs in our neighbouring countries and may threaten important jobs and value creation in industry with increased imports. Industry can also make better use of its capacity, thereby reducing costs significantly. The food industry accounts for about 20 pst. employment and value creation in industry. The government must therefore have an active attitude to this and not, as it is today, be passive about the gradual developments. The outcome of such a policy would seriously harm the food industry. Agricultural policy entails significant costs in terms of public expenditure, high food prices and reduced nutrition for farmers. All the restrictions and obstacles imposed by concession restrictions, administrative prices, production quotas and selective aid schemes have been devastating to farmers. The Progress Party will therefore give a strong priority to conversion, where deregulation, red tape and competition are put at the premium. In 2004, the analysis company ECON prepared a report on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which concludes that many agricultural regulations can be lifted in favour of the development of the industry, as they primarily place a significant restriction on the development of the industry and work negatively in terms of value creation. What appears in this report should be implemented as a matter of urgency in order to ensure new growth and agricultural optimism. We see in this period of enlargement, with the current Council of State, that there is a reversal of agricultural policy in all areas. Among other things, we see: it will be more difficult to dispose of land from agricultural properties, it will be difficult to build dwellings, etc. It's just one party that wants to suffer for this, and it's the farmers. With the government’s policy, the departure from agriculture and the population of District Norway will continue. We have also been invited to say a few words about the reindeer management agreement. The progress party is against the reindeer management agreement, because we believe it is wrong to channel public funds into an industry that needs to be significantly streamlined. There is agreement in Stortinget that the situation in parts of Finnmark is unsustainable, and that we are facing an ecological disaster with many animal tragedy as a result. We think the number of pure has to be reduced. In that case, the funds above the grubbing-up contract must be significantly reduced. We have little faith that the instruments put into the new reindeer management law will give us the necessary reduction in the number of cleans, and that therefore the State must use all the instruments it has available to achieve this objective. I also refer to the comments of the Progress Party and articles in Stortinget's recent treatment of the reindeer management law. It will take considerable courage and action to bring the reindeer into the straight line. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is associated with other parties or alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e506	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e511	Now we've got right a lot about the Progress Party's superior goals. But can the Progress Party tell us, for example. what price of milk will be for us consumers if their policies are implemented? The discount rate is DKK 1.4 billion, and it is in the agricultural agreements. It must in any case be substantially reduced or eliminated by the proposals made by the Progress Party. Will the results of the Progress Party's policy lead farmers to live only from home-hugging and shinning? Is it just Trondelag, Jären and the central Austland that are going to survive in a world where structuralisation is going to be raw and deregulation is the answer to most? The question is, is it going to be equal to the price to us consumers, the same where we live? So far, the buildings are not empty for people, even though we all see some centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e520	I realized that there were many questions in this article. In contrast to the Workers' Party, the party of progress is the consumer's party. We are the party that is involved with consumers. It is clear that the Progress Party, as I said in my speech, wants the prices of food for consumers to fall. But that doesn't immediately mean that the farmer is going to lose income on it. Increased cooperation, increased use of joint ventures and cost reductions are needed. There can also be a contribution from the State, which the Progress Party also has several proposals on, inter alia. in the case of taxes and charges. So I think it's important that many farmers in the districts start looking around for other niches, where the previous government did a very good job, which unfortunately has not got the same bet under the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e527	On page 21 of the vote, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left are united on a note saying that we must ‘defend the advantage of free trade as a means of eradicating poverty’. SV also believes that trade is good, but we believe that trade must be fair. It will never be fair for a underdeveloped country to compete on the same market, with the same rules, as rich, developed countries that have agricultural industries and strong, large companies. Does the Progress Party believe that the poor developing countries can compete on equal terms and survive in that competition? Does not the Progress Party see that such competition will only bring benefits to large, rich companies from the United States, the EU and Australia, which are currently taking out the opportunities of the poorest countries to have their goods placed on the market and which are also engaged in extensive dumping of goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e536	I'm a market librarian, and I take that as an honorary sign. I believe in free trade. Free trade takes people out of the poor world and into a world with the kind of standard of living that we've enjoyed. We were also a poor country once, and because of market economy etc. We have come out of poverty. Free trade — trade between countries — contributes to the development of democracy. We've never had as many democracies in the world as we have now. So I rather think the representative Kvalvik should look around and see what the advantage of free trade is. In the case of poor countries, I think it is completely immoral for us to demand that they open their borders to our agricultural products. I believe that we should give poor countries access to our markets, while at the same time getting some protection for their products.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e543	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr stresses in his speech that he wants more ‘structuralisation of agriculture’ and points out that unit costs need to be reduced. The Progress Party therefore believes that we have too many farmers in Norway and that they serve too much. He underlines in his reply to the previous line that he is a «market liberarian». The Progress Party does not want a border guard to ensure the self-storage of food, and the Progress Party will liquidate the cooperative and the laws and regulations aimed at providing security to each producer. The Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget to cut SEK 6.7 billion from the 2007 agricultural agreement, in one year, and then Kielland Asmyhr says that the desire for cheaper food is to be achieved by paying producers less. It will hit hardest those manufacturers that have the largest production. My question is: How few farmers do we want the Progress Party we are going to have in this country? The second question is, where are they going to do their production?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e552	First, I will reject the claim that the Progress Party will terminate the cooperative. This is a claim made by several representatives of the Red-Green parties in some debates here in Stortinget. That's not right. We want to increase competition in this industry, but that doesn't mean we want to phase out the cooperative. In terms of the number of farmers, we politicians shouldn't put any number on how many farmers there should be. This industry is going to evolve in the same way as all kinds of industries, and I rather think that Lars Peder Breck should be at the forefront of the policy he stands for, and that contributes to the growing number of farmers. He should not blame the Progress Party for the fact that there have been 20 000 fewer farmers since 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e562	Today, the right will vote against the proposal for an agricultural agreement and a reindeer-farming agreement on a principle basis. Let me nevertheless state that the Right is engaged in maintaining an active agriculture throughout the country. The right will maintain the cultural landscape, and the right will maintain Norwegian food production. We must state that, despite a steady and quite severe decline in the number of annual works, agriculture is an important industry for the country and, in particular, for District Norway. However, there is little doubt that the main objectives of agricultural policy, which most parties agree on, can be achieved at a lower social cost than that of the agreement. Although we have a robust public economy in Norway, unnecessary subsidisation of individual industries will involve a cost both to business and to taxpayers. Ultimately, such subsidisation will limit access to other important societal tasks. In my opinion, it is entirely possible to make agriculture more robust than it is today, even with a lower level of subsidies. When the government and farmers' organisations came to an end with this year's settlement, we could see on TV the head of the Central Party and the Minister of Agriculture celebrating the agreement with champagne. It was a strange performance. The peasants demanded NOK 2.1 billion, a claim that is entirely in line with the hopes of the Senter party earlier this year. The pheasant was less than half. This year’s approach means that several thousand uses will also disappear until next year, and this is, of course, light years away from the ambitions of the Council of State in the 2005 Declaration that each use is a personal defeat. It may not be strange that Åslaug Haga was relieved to reach such an agreement. In any case, the champagne celebration reflects a sad phenomenon of Norwegian agricultural policy, namely a significant distance between objectives, rhetoric, promises, celebrations and the reality of agriculture. New in the year’s settlement is the debate on the changes in the calculation method of the farmer’s income. This conflict led to protest by the head of the Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team, Anne Osland. The changes make the farmer's income on a theoretical level increase by nearly NOK 10000, according to Osland. This appears to be a pure rose painting and decoration of the government's agricultural policy, without any economic consequences for the farmer. On the right, we want a new course in agricultural policy. There is little evidence that today’s agricultural settlement, either in the 2007 decision or in relation to long-term measures, solves the challenges facing the agricultural industry in the future. We are approaching with a quick step 2024 and the requirement to operate loosely. The solubility requirement will require large initial investments in modern operating buildings and modern milk production facilities. The solubility requirement requires significant structural changes and major milk production units. This corresponds to the government launching the so-called ‘folk’ concept in which the farmers are to upgrade their smaller facilities to the needs of the future by their own manual efforts. I understand that many farmers who in the future are going to live from their use are not particularly enthusiastic about this concept. Agriculture will also face major challenges when the WTO Agreement is in place or when bilateral agreements are established that go in the same direction. A WTO agreement is positive for Norwegian value creation, but requires agricultural conversion. We note that the Centre Party has also had a tough meeting with reality in this area, and that the Government, after accession, has made a number of new concessions at the expense of agriculture in the WTO negotiations. Unfortunately, however, the change in course and reality in the WTO policy of the Centre Party is not combined with a similar reorientation in the field of agriculture. Both the unbundling requirement, the WTO and the needs of farmers for income growth and competitive working conditions are pushing forward migration towards larger holdings. The right is in line with the observation that a varied operational structure should be facilitated. It is good that we have many part-time farmers in Norway. These contribute positively both to the cultural landscape and to good rural environments. It is necessary to provide for the best possible operation of the farm itself, and it must be possible to operate small-scale farming in Norway in the future, alongside other work. However, when it comes to outlining the course for future agriculture, the Right believes that a greater focus should be placed on the full-time professional farmer. There are many younger people who look forward to 10, 20, 30 years of age and consider entering agriculture. They want to have a level of income that is in line with other traders. They will have a working situation, not least holiday and leisure, which provides a basis for a good family life and will have a security of the values they may invest in their business. I therefore believe that the Government's objective of strengthening the structural profile, which involves increased favourability of small farms, and which is left in this agricultural agreement, is to go dramatically in the wrong direction. I would rather recommend the comment and the proposal that is behind the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, on the decoration of the milk production legislation, in particular in relation to maximum allowances for single use, the possibility of quota rental, the free movement of allowances and the abolition of distance and number limits for cooperatives. It is interesting at a time of much debate on climate challenges that major uses and co-operations have a high potential to reduce climate emissions from fertilizer cutters through the construction of gas turbines that transform emissions into energy. Agriculture is a major source of climate emissions. The potential for reducing emissions while giving industry a more forward-looking structure is very exciting. I would also point out that greater use can have a positive effect on animal welfare. Farm animals are almost exclusively grown on small farms. Professional operation on major uses with loose-working and modern infrastructure will, in my opinion, also make everyday life better for the animals. There is broad support for the need for market organisations in certain areas of agriculture. As regards the market organisation for milk, this has been a subject of controversy with regard to competition policy for several years. Following the acquisition of the Stoltenberg II Government, the management of the market organisation for milk has been strange, with the training of the Government’s own decision on the taxiing of Tine and one on the edge of the unprofessional treatment of Q-meierienen’s application for conversion aid. It is a well-known case that the Farm is against competition in dairy products. The argument of the Council of State has gone in the same direction as the argument of the League of Bonds that the private actors themselves are responsible for poor profitability. Therefore, it is alarming and positive that the Government is right to do so and now provides the independent actors with improvements in the economic environment. This must be seen as a recognition that the smaller operators have been discriminated against in the market organisation for milk, as they themselves and the Right have consistently claimed. The right is surprised, but also in favour of increasing the responsibility of the Competition Authority to control competition for dairy products in the retail market. With regard to the food industry, it is regrettable to note that the tonnage of foreign processing has experienced a new and dramatic development. The government has reverted to its own decision in the 2007 state budget and is now launching a completely new quota auction scheme, which has not been consulted. The process itself is critical, and the result appears poorly investigated. The right has asked questions about the legal aspects of the new regulation. In any case, these kinds of barriers to trade are yesterday's solutions. It is a paradox to the Right that this crusade, which particularly affects a special actor, occurs without it having any bearing on farmers' disposal of their own production. It is unfortunate that we have a government that, on a case-by-case basis, tries to discriminate between businesses, based on whether they are organised as cooperatives or not. In this period, a number of proposals relating to the deregulation of laws restricting the ownership of the farmer have been made. We supported the Left's proposal to remove the ground law ban. In addition, we have proposed the removal of the obligation to live and regulate the prices of agricultural property, and we have proposed to remove the county's possibility to review decisions taken by the county agricultural department. The more we go into individual matters and the fate of individuals for those affected by the legislation, the more unreasonable it appears in relation to the ownership of the individual farmer. If we look at the regulatory system from a regional policy perspective, the answer will not be different either. It is a paradox that parties engaged in district policy are overrun by people who want to establish industry or new housing in the districts. Land protection is available for agriculture, but agriculture is also available for rural areas. It is important for a district municipality to be able to use its areas for investments that create activity and a future basis for settlement. At that time, it is poor district policy to overrun this type of local democratic decision based on national agricultural policy objectives. I think it's rather strange that we have a council of states that doesn't see the overrun of a single municipal government, as including central party politicians, is an attack on local democracy and the people's rule. I would therefore recommend that the Council of State visit Fusa in Hordaland. There, the rapporteur from the Centre Party is fighting a fierce fight to give a family use the opportunity to set up a new home, so that the generation change can take place in a way that will keep the use going in the future. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the Right vote against the agricultural agreement and the reindeer agreement on a principle basis. We think it is unfortunate that some professional organisations should negotiate their framework conditions in this way. This is unfortunate in relation to the legitimacy of the industry, and it is unfortunate that budgetary matters should be dealt with during the budgetary procedure, where all expenditure on the State budget is seen in a context. As the regulatory framework conditions for both reindeer farming and agriculture are complex, important and extensive, the Right wishes instead to establish a consultation mechanism for these industries prior to the budgetary procedure. We would stress that our vote against the agricultural agreement is not in itself a signal that we want to change the content of neither the agricultural agreement nor the reindeer agreement. This type of leadership is linked to other proposals. I would also like to address the proposals that the Right-wing Group is promoting in the vote either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e621	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e627	We have just heard that the Right will maintain an active and varied agriculture throughout the country. But I see it so that the Right has actually approached the agricultural policy of the Advance Party quite strongly through the last agricultural operations that have been dealt with here in the house, and that among other things. now manifests itself through a proposal to increase the ceiling on milk quotas and to open up the possibility of increasing co-operation and increasing the number of members. Then we experienced that the cooperation partner of the Right promoted a proposal here in the hall yesterday to wind up Finnmark property and put the Sameting down. Of course, it doesn't have much to do with the agricultural agreement, but I just want to ask the simple question about this in a way that somehow reduces the interest of the Right in relation to its newly won partner in agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e634	I don't think it's natural to go into the partnership debate here today in the Chamber, but I'm recording that the government parties are trying to stick the Right Policy up against the Progress Party. I just want to make it quite clear that there is less difference between the agricultural policy of the Central Party and the agricultural policy of the Right than there is between the agricultural policy of the Right and the agricultural policy of the Advance Party. This can easily be seen by setting the levels of support next to each other, where we see that there is less difference in what we are proposing, and what the government parties are proposing, in relation to the Progress Party. It is also the case that the Right wants to maintain schemes that ensure active agriculture throughout the country, even if we want larger farms. It is also the case that we see that there is a need for agricultural organisation in the future. I believe that the Right stands for a moderate and forward-looking agricultural policy that is at the centre of Norwegian policy, which is realistic and positive for agriculture in the future. We need to take on board that there are changes in agriculture, and we need a system that allows farmers to have a positive belief in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e641	In the setting, on page 6, there is a comment from the Right Christian People's Party and the Left: «The negotiated agreement of the year does not imply a change of course in the framework, arrangement or structure.» This must mean that the Right does not see any difference between the agricultural policy of this government and that of the government itself in the previous period. It is true that serious parties vote in favour of agreements concluded between parties on which they agree. When the Right now chooses to vote against the agreement, I ask: does that mean that the Right was and disagrees with both the agricultural policy of the previous government and the agricultural policy of the current government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e653	I believe that the Party of Socialist Left now also realizes that there may be nuance differences between what you stand for primarily, and what you have to go into the government position. When we are in opposition, we market our own primary agricultural policy, which is slightly different from that of the Bondevik II government. The comment in the setting is, however, quite correct. There is no major change in the course or arrangements of agricultural policy in relation to what was in the previous period, and that must be a very serious breach of promises in relation to, among other things, that. The centre party went to the election on. But when it comes to voting against the agricultural agreement and a concluded agreement, I think it is democratically right that it is in this Chamber that we decide these things. It is quite legitimate that, in the context of the agricultural agreement-making process in Stortinget, we signal that we want to have another way of aligning the agricultural framework, a way that is more consistent with what is happening in the rest of the world, and a way that is more forward-looking and modern in relation to the requirements of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e662	Right-wing representative Torbjørn Hansen stresses that they will vote against this year's agricultural agreement for reasons of principle. They want agriculture's challenges to be addressed through regular budgetary processes. Then I want to go back to what the Right proposed in its 2007 proposals for the state budget when it came to agriculture. It was found that they wanted to reduce the agricultural agreement by DKK 1.8 billion in an already negotiated agreement for 2007. It was a cut of NOK 30 000 per year. annual work, and it represented a reduction in agricultural income of 18 p.m. in a year. One also says that one wants to reduce the transfers more. Then I wonder how it fits with what Mr Hansen is saying now, that most of the objectives should be maintained, the production of safe food, the areas, the cultural landscape, agriculture throughout the country, food security, self-sufficiency in local communities where agriculture is important, innovation, entrepreneurship, etc. Is policy in order?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e671	There is no doubt that there is a good link in our alternative agricultural policy. If you look at the basic economic conditions around, for example. The type of use will save society from relatively high economic costs compared to similar production on many small farms. Therefore, it is fully possible to facilitate very robust agriculture, including with a lower level of support. What I think many farmers are experiencing today is that you have a regulation of agriculture that makes all uses less and less profitable, and no one sees the great optimism about the future. We need to create it by giving farmers the opportunity to develop their businesses instead of giving them more regulation combined with moderate income increases. If you combine the changes we make in the budgets with a gradual deregulation of the operation and strengthen the ownership of the farmer, I believe that Norwegian farmers will get better out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e678	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e681	SV is working for a Norwegian agricultural policy that facilitates employment and good housing in rural areas, which puts animal welfare at a high level, which strengthens organic production and uses both the land and the land resource in a sustainable way. Therefore, I am pleased to explain why SV will recommend the Stortinget to vote for both the farm settlement and the year’s reindeer settlement – agreements that have been agreed by the State with both the Land team and the Farm and Small Farms team. Agriculture policy is broadly entrenched and partly interwoven with important rural and security policy objectives. Norwegian agriculture is to produce clean and safe food, but also common goods such as natural experiences, and agriculture provides a basis for a robust tourism industry. ‘Introducing the country’ is the name of the strategy paper for agricultural policy presented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in January of this year. The use of the land may also constitute a strong incentive to use the land for agriculture, forestry, horticulture and reindeer farming and also to use the resources available in the form of knowledge-based and unemployed people, buildings, livestock, machinery and equipment. Agricultural production in Norway is mainly considered to be a small-scale agriculture, at least in a global context. The average Norwegian farm has in recent years required work from an entire family, but it has largely only given income to half a family. This income situation, combined with a labour-intensive labour market, means that on most farms there is one who works on the farm and one who works outside the farm. At the same time, agricultural incomes are not equally distributed. There are some uses with very good agricultural incomes, and then there are still an incredible number of uses that have weak earnings and that are struggling to keep the wheels going. Therefore, it is good for SV to be able to say that the year’s settlement meets the needs of the mediocre uses, or we should call it the family uses, and the smallest uses. SV knows well that in some areas of Norway there is room for rationalising, structuring, streamlining, mechanizing and I had almost robotic farming, thus facilitating a further and even stronger reduction in the number of uses. Where there is a line to which SV will not further stimulate, it is linked to the fact that these medium and small uses, at least one person having the ‘heart of the farm’, are carriers of other businesses, private services and public services in large and small rural communities throughout the country. Well-kept cultural landscapes – whether in the valleys of seats, flatlands, mountain farms or coastal agriculture, represent the glued between Geirangerfjorden, Bryggen in Bergen, Nidarosdomen, Lofoten and Nordkapp. Norway is a country with relatively small income differences between those who have paid work and the proportion of the household budget spent on food is now on average 10,5 pst. We don't have expensive food in Norway for those who are working. Nevertheless, there is little will to spend more money on food. On the contrary, many people in this country are concerned about bringing cheap pork home from Denmark after a holiday trip. I am proud of this agricultural agreement because it has a device that is in line with our priorities. Within the range of 975 million. We have put in place a strengthening of the environmental profile. We have put in place traps, reinforced measures for the cultural landscape, and not least an increase in the grazing premium of 72 million. Total NOK At the same time, an increased focus on bioenergy will also contribute to strengthening the environmental profile of the agreement. For SV, it is gratifying that the contract reduces the turnover requirement from 30 000 to 20 000. The herd of the smallest sheep population makes a significant effort to keep the mark open. These measures, together with the new livestock premium in sheep, are very important to stimulate continued operation on the smallest uses. Organic production has been at the heart of SV policy. We are therefore pleased that we are now working to achieve a better balance between organic production and consumption. In this context, I would also like to say that I am pleased that we have put in place the payment for rent for mobile slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e710	I've looked a little bit at SV's party program, and it's quite funny when there's a debate here in the hall. In the SV Party program, it says among other things: to improve access to the markets of poor countries in Norway. The question then arises: how is the poor countries’ market access to Norway ensured in this agricultural settlement? I also noticed that the representative Kvalvik was proud of the agricultural agreement. From 1989 to 2006, the number of agricultural holdings is almost halved. The agreement that we are discussing now provides for a reduction of 1600 agricultural holdings. Then my question is against SV's party program: Is this good SV policy, and is the representative Kvalvik proud of what the government is doing in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e717	Thank you to the representative who asks two important questions. First, on poverty and free trade, which we have been faced with before today in this debate. What we're doing in the future is looking at where we're dealing with our food. We have to make sure to trade with those countries that need development the most. Unlike the Progress Party, we do not believe that free trade will solve the problems of the poorest and second poorest countries. After all, free trade only strengthens those who are strong from before. History shows that countries that have come out of poverty have never done so in a free trade market. They have had self-protection for their own production. So if we are to help the poorest countries, we must continue such a line where we allow them to secure their own production. The competition with the big companies they are unable to win. Then the representative had a question about our policy in relation to the departure from the use. I see that my time has expired, but hopefully I get the chance to answer it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e727	Norwegian agricultural production accounts for a total of 9 pst. of the total Norwegian climate emissions, and that is quite a lot. Most of it is from the fertiliser boilers that emit large amounts of methane greenhouse gas. We know that a modern and forward-looking solution to the problem can be to build a gas turbine over the fertiliser boiler that transforms the emissions into energy. Such a solution requires something greater use than these 1970s people's families that we have a part of. It would therefore be good to build these together with e.g. co-operating poultry that can have enough energy for many households, while ensuring a better economy for the farmers. Such modernisation of Norwegian agriculture will contribute to the reduction of Norwegian emissions. Unfortunately, we have a government with the stated objective that not one use should be shut down, and that conflicts with co-operation because they think that small crowds are the ones who can save the industry. Does the SV not see that greater use with new modern dairy cows could significantly reduce Norwegian agricultural climate emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e734	I would like to thank the representative from the Right for the question. It is important for us to have the opportunity to say that no parties have to the extent that SV talked about the environment. We are very happy that there are many who now agree with us that we need to make a significant effort to improve our climate. When it comes to the effort of agriculture, I'd say they're on the right track. Emissions from agriculture have fallen. We will, together with others, ensure that transfers to investment in agriculture are followed closely in order to meet the challenges of emissions, among others. agricultural methane gas. We are very much for people to come together, two and two uses, for example. in co-operation, in order to implement new solutions. We will focus strongly on the environmental challenge in the future. I'm very happy that the right has the same setting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e743	I'll follow up on the previous line a little bit. The Christian People's Party believes that a fund should be created to finance biogas plants based on methane gas from livestock farming. The other opposition parties have a slightly different approach to how to exploit agricultural greenhouse gas, but they are aware that something needs to be done. What is striking is that the Government and Government Party did not seem to be interested in reducing greenhouse gasses for agriculture as a whole. So far, it came out of the answer to the previous line, where the representative Kvalvik said they should follow developments. It's not very active and progressive. My question is: What does SV, who previously had a clear environmental profile, think about this very current climate issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e752	Thanks to the representative, Ingreig Sørfonn, for the question. In fact, I believe that the Christian People's Party knows that SV has a strong and genuine environmental exposure. In the case of biogas plants and in all cases new technologies for emissions management, SV wants to be at the forefront of development What I tried to say instead was that we strengthen the environmental profile of the agreement. We've done 72 million. kr for an increase in the grazing premium. We have an increased investment in bioenergy of a total of 190 million. kr. We have set up our own environmental programme, and we will continue to develop good solutions to address agricultural emissions. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is now signaling that they will support the SV in all such proposals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e761	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e764	The debate so far has been marked by two quite different developments. On the one hand, we have the government party, which markets the agricultural policy of the year as a historical indicator and a new course for the agricultural industry, entirely in line with what was promised both in the election speeches and in the government statements. On the other hand, we find the Progress Party and – if not equally – the Right, which will have removed the agricultural agreements, reduce government transfers and remove specific agricultural arrangements. To take the government fraction's mention of the agreement first, I would conclude that it is not the content, but the wrapping that is the biggest problem. The Christian People's Party is content to submit to the Stortinget an agricultural policy based on a deal between the parties to the agreement. For the Christian People's Party, it has always been important that agricultural policy should be based on trade between organisations in the industry. We've been in position for that, and that's why we don't have a problem saying that we're content that it was a semester this year, too. We are also pleased that the agreements provide a reasonable income development for the farmers, just enough based on the fact that the statements behind the data are consistent. If the policy objectives of maintaining a living agriculture throughout the country with a varied structure of use are to be taken seriously, the prospects for income and welfare development are at least on the line with other groups in society as a whole. When it comes to the history itself and the adjective use in the mention of the statement, I find that the tone is much more muted by the farmers themselves than by the political leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture and in the red-green camp in the Stortinget. ‘However, the outcome of the negotiations is not in line with the ambitions expressed and expectations created by the Governmental Team during the winter period’, says Norway’s Bondelag in its letter to the Food Committee of 31 May this year. The last time today, we can read in the Nations that the peasants think that there was no reason for the Central Party's champagne celebration of the agricultural settlement. It seems that there would have been more ground to drink in sour milk! There is a good income development for farmers – a total framework in which an actually has to go back to the central government time to find better figures. However, the main arrangements and instruments used in agricultural policy are largely firm, including a comparison with previous governments. It brings me to the other side of this debate – the Right and the Progress Party. The party of progress has always been a hot spokesman for the rapprochement of a Norwegian country-based agriculture, so their position today is nothing new. When it comes to the Right, I have to say that the agreements do not represent any major price change compared to the policy of the Cooperation Government. On the other hand, it does the Right policy as expressed in the Committee setting. As it is called, the Christian People's Party agrees with the agreements it holds, with the promises that follow it. However, we will still point to some challenges that need to be addressed more seriously in future agricultural policy. First, more than half of the frame is drawn by increasing the target price. In cattle and pig meat, the increase in target prices is actually higher than that demanded by the farmers’ organisations. This results in increased pressure on the food industry. I hope that the government party has noticed a considerable anxiety and dissatisfaction in this industry. If we are to have a viable food industry for years to come, there are, of course, limits on the price difference of raw materials to the industry. This means that the revenue target must be secured by direct budgetary support in the years ahead to a greater extent than has been the case this year. Secondly, environmental challenges need to be even more closely integrated into agricultural negotiations. Agriculture is an important source of Norwegian climate change emissions, among others. in the form of methane gas from animal husbandry. The Christian People's Party believes that support schemes for investments in biogas plants should be greatly improved, so that such investments become interesting also for farmers with more normal use. This will result in less climate emissions, while providing both energy and higher quality fertilisers. The Christian People's Party supports this year's agricultural policy. The same applies to the reindeer agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e796	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e799	Although the representative Sørfonn strikes a blow to the sour milk, I note that he is still quite satisfied with the agricultural settlement of the year. But in its committee comments, the Christian People's Party goes back to the agricultural policy of the former Minister of Agriculture Gjønnes to find a comparison with the agricultural settlement of the year. I don't have a basis for evaluating the settlements at the time of what is being done, but between these periods we have Sponheim. I can understand that one is not particularly enthusiastic about what happened in this period, but what does the representative Sørfonn think is the reason why pessimism spread in Norwegian villages and in Norwegian agriculture under the Bondevik government, and what can be the result of expectations being so much higher now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e806	When it comes to pessimism in agriculture, the representative Gullvåg and the party have good experience. When the central government took over in 1997, there was considerable pessimism in agriculture. This was flipped during the center editor. And just to remind you a little bit about what actually happened, because the representative Gullvåg doesn't have an overview of it: the agricultural decision in 1998 had a total framework of DKK 1.3 billion. The transfers were nearly 600 million. SEK – 575 million. kr. In 1999, there was a total of $1.1 billion. The transfer amount was 540 million. kr. So I don't recognize myself in the description. It was turned to optimism. I understand, when I add my credit, that the representative of Gullvåg has a need to make a rhetorical point that there is a difference between the agricultural policy that is currently being pursued and the one that was run under the previous government, but that is actually not the basis for such rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e813	The right-wing and the Progressive Party are united in many comments in the position on relatively radical proposals, which SV believes will have dramatic consequences for Norwegian agriculture, as we see it today, and therefore also for district policy. I would say that the Right shows his true face. How does the Christian People’s Party feel that this will affect future cooperation? Can the Christian People’s Party see itself going into a government where agricultural negotiations are being concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e820	I think the representative Kvalvik agrees with me that we should be happy that we live in a free country, where there is the possibility of meaning and expressing it as one will. But to the reality of the question: I can demonstrate to practice, that there may be different approaches in the policy of the primary positions, but we showed in the Cooperation Government that it was possible to reconcile an agricultural policy that was united and that gave optimism and development, and that is actually only slightly different from the policy that is being pursued today. So this is that the party in opposition presence expresses its primary policy, I don't feel like a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e828	The Christian People's Party points out in its attitude to this matter that the former Council of State Remuneration made an agreement with agricultural organisations which had a clearly higher overall framework than the year's framework. It is also pointed out by the representative of Sørfonn. The framework was, in fact, DKK 1.4 billion in 1998 and DKK 1.1 billion in 1999, but the framework cannot be seen in isolation, regardless of price, cost and market developments during the same period. Among other things, the interest rate increased by three percentage points in the same period. In reality, during the period of Reimbursement at the rudder, income increased by NOK 14 000 per year. Annual work over the three-year period, and from 1997 to 1999, revenue increased only by NOK 2 000 per year. annual work. So this is how I think the representative Sørfonn's boast of this period does not fit so well. I would also like to say that discussing whether to toast in sour milk or champagne is not appropriate here. So I'm asking, isn't this a correct description of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e837	First, I would like to ask the representative to distinguish between finding facts and boasting. Then I would like to point out the undeniable fact, which you can ask almost every farmer about, that during the central government – in which the representative Breck's party was also involved, with Gjønnes as Minister of Agriculture – there was a positive development, and there was an optimism in Norwegian agriculture. If one looks at agricultural policy for two of these years mentioned, 1998 and 1999, it is at least an undeniable fact that transfers were much larger in those years than in this given year, which is called a historical statement. The transfer was 575 million. DKK in 1998 and of SEK 540 million. 1999 kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e844	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e847	Farmers are responsible for some of the most important tasks of society. This concerns food production and land management. Nevertheless, this important group serves less than most other groups in the country. The average compensation for the work and equity invested in agriculture is 170,000 kroner per year. annual work – i.e. before the year’s settlement. In addition, there is a large gap between incomes inwards in agriculture, so that much of the work actually has a significantly lower remuneration. The agricultural settlement of the year alone is far from sufficient to correct decades of neglect of agriculture. As you can see, the critics of agricultural settlements have done something right. The settlement of the year alone will not be sufficient to reverse all negative trends in industry. Most, however, including the strongest critics, must acknowledge that the year’s settlement is the best in many years. In my view, the agricultural structure contains a number of positive signals that should provide a basis for future confidence in industry. As mentioned above, the amount of settlement is 975 million. kr and is the largest in very many years. The total size of real income trends in agriculture depends, among other things, on: the development of costs and the efficiency of industry. But the intent of the settlement is clear. Farmers shall have an average income development of approximately NOK 17 000 per year. annual work. This is roughly the same chronic addition that other groups get, according to the forecasts. The ambitions for income development have not been higher in many years, and it is in my view a minimum target that farmers get the same income development in crowns as other groups in society. In addition, the practice of ‘re-use’ of money has been stopped. Unused funds from last year’s settlement are added to the framework and paid out in 2007. It is therefore also a significant improvement in 2007 revenue. At the same time, this is a very important principle, a system change that ensures — and will ensure in the future — a fairer presentation of income developments in future settlements. 400 million. The growth of income takes the form of increased budget appropriations. Budget appropriations are targeted at ensuring the development of income on ordinary family use. Some examples of this are: The base deduction has been reduced by NOK 1000 per person. The operating supplement in milk production has been increased by NOK 6000. A separate operating supplement has been introduced in sheep production of DKK 7500 per year. The turnover requirement for payment of production supplements has been reduced from NOK 30 000 to NOK 20 000.Beetebruk is a priority through increased subsidies to grazing animals.In addition, rural agriculture is prioritised through increased regional supplements on meat and milk.The prices are significantly raised in all areas where it is considered possible to charge increased market prices, and the cereal price has been raised for the first time in a very long time. These are clear signals to the industry that there is a future also for the use of ordinary size. The Sponheim era, when everything was about magnificence or niches, is over! For the Central Party, this is very important. Kidney production, food shortages and new industries are appropriate and necessary adaptations for the populations to survive, but without a backbone in the form of traditional family farming, agriculture can hardly solve its social tasks. It is this use group that is prioritised in the year’s settlement and should be prioritised in the future. However, creating confidence in the future and recruiting requires more than just money in a single agricultural settlement. For those who will choose whether to take over a farm or build a new operational building, the time perspective is 20-30 years. It has therefore been essential for the Centre Party to have an impact on a policy that can last for a long time. We expect and work to follow up this year's efforts in the coming agricultural settlements. We started last year, we're following up this year, and we're going to continue this change in price in the coming settlement. Despite this year’s agreement, the Budgetary Review shows that agricultural incomes are well below acceptable levels. The priority of rural agriculture, family farming and environmentally friendly agriculture has been fully realised. We're going to work on that in the future. There is also a need to look in the future at the well-being, freight, etc. co-financed measures. is adequately maintained. The approach shows that there are clear differences between the parties in the agricultural policy. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party have now joined forces on the issue of removing the right to negotiate and leaving it to the Stortinget to establish the framework conditions of the farmers as part of the normal budgetary process for the autumn shows that a government other than the current one could threaten both the right to negotiate and the framework conditions. Anyone who believes that agriculture would come out that wins in the fight for budgetary resources in another government does not relate to the world as it really is. Those who want to wind up the whole system do not at least represent forces standing on the barricades to defend an agricultural system all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e897	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e900	It's up to a government, no matter what its composition, to boast of a settlement that you've signed on to. But you can ask yourself if the central party in this case is very satisfied, because in one media essay we see champagne bowl and celebration, and in another media essay we see the Minister of Transport from the Central Party criticising the settlement negotiated by, among other things. her party. There are clearly different opinions in the Centre Party on this negotiated agreement. So I want to ask the representative the question: was there any reason to celebrate the outcome of the shampoo settlement, or was this just a press release in an attempt to hide a poorly negotiated agreement for agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e907	This year's agreement for the first time in a very many years means that farmers get income development in kronor equal to other groups, approx. NOK 17 000. It is very important to achieve this in the agricultural sector. I am pleased that the state and the organizations agreed. That in itself is the basis enough to celebrate. There is also a basis for celebrating that we have removed the principle of transferring appropriations from one year to another — avoiding re-use of funds. It is also an important principle that ensures incomes from agriculture and that we have reason to celebrate. Whether you are celebrating with champagne and soft cake or with sour milk, which was mentioned here in the hall today, you can discuss. But I would like to stress that in the Central Party we are taking step by step in the work to further develop the incomes of agriculture. We want, as I just said in my post, to move on. We see that there is a need for further increases in agricultural incomes, so that we can have comparable situations with other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e914	The Minister of Agriculture has stated that any use that is being made is a defeat. However, we see that agriculture is being laid down daily — even under this government. In other words, there have been many thousands of individual misdemeanours for the Minister since 2005. It is also true that even if agricultural transfers to agriculture increase slightly, the decline will only continue. This trend has been almost constant for the past 30 to 40 years. Although there is a decrease in employment and in the number of uses, the production and area of cultivated land is maintained at about the same level. It's about technological development and efficiency improvement, and that's good. But when the number of uses is the main measure of success in the agricultural policy of this government, how can the Central Party be satisfied with the policy pursued, when the result is nevertheless the same as in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e926	I would like to support the Minister of Agriculture when he says that closure of use is a loss, and it is sad that in this way we are thinning out the development of many rural communities. It is important that we have an agricultural policy that maintains as many uses as possible. Then I will agree with the description that Røbekk Nørve gives here. Technological developments, changes in society and competition with other groups lead to changes in the number of uses. It's not possible to stop. So we'll also see in the future that use is going to be abandoned. But the goal of the Centre Party is to work hard to prevent this closure, and then it is not least important to improve income. And then you have to ask yourself, where is the Right answer – income-related – in terms of agricultural development? We see nothing other than that the Right proposes reduced incomes for agriculture, and that will strengthen structural development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e933	The left and the centre parties have previously had many common interests in agricultural policy, but now it seems that we are separating layers in some fundamental areas, although there are many things that remain common. The left is concerned with providing space for action, stimulating creativity, fostering cooperation and new solutions in the agricultural industry. This is what the Left believes is important for people to be given opportunities and for Building Norway to be inhabited. Many smaller dairy farms see that they are individually too small to continue to be profitable. Many therefore want cooperation. Does the representative of the Central Party think that it is good agricultural policy to have in a village with, for example, six dairy farms shall only be allowed to join together in a joint farm, while the sixth shall either continue alone or cease? And is this good urban policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e943	If I am not mistaken, part of the legislation on co-operation was introduced under the previous government. It was then the total number of tonnes in production and also restrictions on the number of uses that could participate in the co-operation. As far as I know, there has been no change in the agricultural settlement of the year that changes that policy. My starting point is that there should be a framework for co-operation at the level we have today – perhaps the level should be even lower. It should have been possible to look at the number of uses that can participate, where I will give Kongshaug straight. It should be assessed in the future. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the Left Party and the Centre have many common interests, although we may see a little different opportunities for niche production, additional activities. It is important for the Centre Party to stress that the whole development of agriculture depends on the ability to secure family farming in the future, and then niche production and other production must come as a supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e952	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e955	Let me start by congratulating the Government on negotiating an agreement. In the same way as under the previous government, an agreement has been negotiated that the industry has readily opposed. There is reason to stress that future agricultural agreements contain a number of key elements of the agricultural policy of the previous government. This year's negotiated agreement does not imply a dramatic change in price in the framework, arrangement or structure, as the government parties claim. It is clear, however, that the arrangement is in a small step in the wrong direction: there is more regulation and less freedom of action for those who want to bet. It's e.g. very unclear signals regarding investment funds in today's policy. It's clear that as long as you want to invest in the government's core project, the so-called family business, everything is fine, but if you want to be up and down, bet new and different, it seems like there's a sudden stop. Otherwise, I wonder – and many with me: What is the size of a family practice? It should have been a pleasure if the Council of State could define it in its contribution, so that we, too, have something to do with this nuclear project by the Government. There is reason to recall that the agricultural policy pursued in the previous period created new economic optimism and a basis for efforts for those who would create a living in the enlarged agricultural policy. It is important that this policy continues, and not that which characterises several of the signals that are now coming. The truth is that Building Norway is screaming for a new and modern policy. The answer is not to rage over the existing, but a sensible decoration of a rigid code and a settlement with cemented attitudes. It is sad to record the reversal that is now taking place. Where we adapted the legislation to modern life and society, it is now being tightened in too much. One of the last Lars Sponheim did as Minister of Agriculture, was to propose the lifting of the ban on division in the law of the land — which was, in fact, adapting agriculture and districts to the future. It shall be possible to live on an agricultural property without the need for traditional farming. It shall be possible for more than one person to share a property that is currently only used and occupied by one person. It shall be possible to live in the countryside without having to settle in a narrow residential area and without having to operate traditional agriculture. The government has reversed this policy and tightened up further by tightening up the requirements for building house no. two on an agricultural property. This reduces the possibility for new generations to establish themselves and thereby ensure the continued operation of the farm. Does the government really think that it's just where you go in the forehead, it's important to facilitate generation change? I wonder that it is possible for a government to look after itself so that this settlement is met with so much general dissatisfaction. The reason for these reactions is obvious: the government has in the field by area created expectations that it does not have the opportunity to live up to. It has also been strange to follow the process that led to a change in the method of calculating the agricultural budget before this settlement. It has been claimed in this room that these were purely changes that had been made on a professional basis, without political interference. In the newspaper Nations on the 4th of June this year, we get to serve a completely different story. Anne Osland, who resigned as head of the Small User Team in protest at the new methods of calculating the Agricultural Budget, says that both the Council of State and the Council of Ministers personally tried to persuade her to accept the new method of calculation. To resolve any doubts, I ask the Council of State to use the opportunity today to provide precise information on the matter. In yesterday's edition of the Nations, the journalist had succeeded in placing the piece of art together with the Progress Party in agricultural policy. This is pure hesitation, caused at best by conscious and immoral journalism, in the worst case by a lack of literacy and perceptiveness. It's a shame to have to spend time from this pulpit on such low-level journalism, and I'm asking that those who are going to inform the people in the media, too, are despicable, and are looking into the issues that exist. I am pleased that there are several parties with us on the modernisation of agricultural policy, but otherwise it is the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, which is now the real and remaining centre of Norwegian agricultural policy. Let me stress that the Left has the tradition of voting for agreements negotiated between the State and various organisations. The left will therefore vote in favour of the existing agricultural agreements and reprocessing agreements, although we believe that the key elements of the agricultural agreement are not adapted to the challenges of the future. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e983	The representative of Kongshaug has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e988	We just heard that the representative of Kongshaug is obviously very satisfied with the Sponheim period in Norwegian agricultural policy. I also registered that the representative Sørfonn from the former government partner of the Left Christian People's Party ran relatively easily past this particular period. After all, you never know with the Left, and I record that in the setting, the Left actually goes in now in order for us to anticipate a future WTO agreement in that way that we should immediately remove export subsidies on cheese. As you know, this would lead to an immediate closure of about 3,000 use. Does the Left consider that this is a reasonable price to pay for such a proposal, or does the Left have other solutions to point out that can compensate for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e993	The Christian People's Party and the Left have cooperated well in agricultural policy. I have great respect for the fact that the representative of the Christian People's Party mentions his State Council in this regard, and I hope that the representative of Gullvåg also respects my pride in my representative who was the Council of State in the previous period. On the specific issue, it is precisely the closure of export aid that is the Government’s position in the WTO negotiations. In the Hong Kong round of December 2005, it was decided that all export aid should be eliminated in 2013, with a halve during 2010. It's not long. I believe and trust that Tine here will be creative and change, so that the uses to deliver milk still have the opportunity. I think this is important given our credibility in future WTO negotiations. A rich country such as Norway must not operate with export aid if we are to be believed that we need our own agriculture in a preparedness context, among other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1002	I record that the representative Kongshaug is making a general settlement with the Nations in his statement. I want to follow up the discussion that started, because we feel that there are more common comments between the Left, Right and the Advance Party now than before. This will include, inter alia: as expressed in the desire for fewer and larger dairy farms, by the release of the quotas and the abolition of the restrictions on co-operation. They also share a common position on the Government's restrictions on the foreign processing of meat. We'll record that. At the same time, we record that the Left wants to keep the contract institute. But there is a contradiction in the Left note, where they say, on the one hand, that agriculture must ‘get a more central role in meeting societal goals of viable local communities, living cultural landscapes and natural and environmental goods’, and, on the other hand, they say that they will continue the agricultural negotiations as a purely income agreement. Does this mean that the Left is also on the loose with regard to the contractual institution and that they want to remove the contractual institution in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1011	In the case of the agricultural negotiations as the contract institute for purely income negotiations, the Left will stand on it. It has to be clear. With regard to the introduction to the representative Breck, that we have a lot to do with the Progress Party, that's right. We are very pleased that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left have come together in many areas, not least by changing a rigid code – which is now being strongly reversed. It can't be a good signal to give Bygde-Norway that users who see that they have too little quota to invest in the quota they have, and get a bigger quota, get no when applying for a loan, because there's not a priority case in the so-called family farms. But if they wanted to invest on an allowance that they had, which was basically unprofitable, they would be prioritised with investment funds. This is completely behind the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1018	I registered that the representative Kongshaug did not answer my question. I further record that the Left is still on its proposal for an immediate closure of export subsidies on cheese, with the consequences that I described in my previous line. Now the representative of Kongshaug refers to Tine, which is to solve the problems arising from the liquidation of export subsidies on cheese products. Can the representative of Kongshaug now give Tine some guidance on how to solve these problems, so as to remove the threat of shutting down 3000 Norwegian farms?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1025	It is quite interesting that the representative Gullvåg here asks me to give instructions to Tine. I'm leaving this all the way to Tine. But the situation is that it is the government's position that export aid should be phased out. I can also send the question in return to Gullvåg: What prescription will you give to Tine that the farms that are claimed to be closed should continue to operate? Because that's the government's policy we're talking about here. I pointed out the Hong Kong Round instead. As I said, export aid — if it goes through — has to be phased out during 2013, with a halve in 2010. Even in view of our credibility in the negotiations, otherwise, that we need Norwegian agriculture in a preparedness context and in terms of cultural landscapes and diversity, we must not ride two horses at the same time. We know how it goes, at least when the horses run in different directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1030	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1036	I will present the position of the Business Committee on the reindeer management agreement. It is a majority of the Committee that supports the negotiated agreement between the Norwegian Reinbrutsamer Landsförbund and the State. I think that's good. Purification is a small industry on a national scale, but both in a Sami and in a local context it has a significant economic, employment and cultural impact. In the light of national obligations under the Basic Law and the rules of international law on indigenous peoples and minorities, reindeer management policy must be seen in both a common policy and a social policy context. It is the NRL that negotiates the reindeer management agreement with the State, but the Sametinge has observer status. The merger has also met with the Ministry in advance of the submission of the State's offer, giving the opportunity to make recordings. I have recorded that these recordings were essentially consistent with NRL's requirements. The year’s negotiations on the reindeer management agreement, as in previous years, have been carried out on the basis of the objectives and guidelines drawn up by the Stortinge during the examination of St.meld. No 28 for 1991-92, Sustainable reindeer management. This year's agreement has a framework of 97.0 million. kr, there is an increase of 4,5 million. kr in relation to the previous agreement. In addition, 3 million were granted in the year. for measures against radioactive contamination of reindeer meat. I remind you that over many years, the Business Committee has been very concerned about developing ecologically and economically sustainable reindeer management. Ensuring increased value creation in the reindeer meat industry is fundamental to a positive development in the industry. It is important that we stimulate real market production and value creation through the grubbing-up agreement, and the majority of the nutrition committee considers it appropriate to maintain production-dependent subsidies for the industry, which contribute to ecological sustainability, by stimulating increased slaughter yields. Such a focus on production also helps to underpin a more nutrient-oriented focus on reindeer management, which in my opinion stimulates those who have reindeer as their main activity. The size has recently adopted a new reindeer management law, and there are great expectations that it will provide both the industry and the administration with the tools needed to achieve the objectives of ecological and economic sustainability. If both the reindeer industry and the government's representatives are now addressing these challenges with mutual respect and with the will to understand each other and cooperate, then I'm optimistic. The attitude shows that both the Party of Progress and the Right disagree that an industry should have the opportunity to conclude such an industrial agreement as the reindeer agreement is. I'm going to limit myself to having one comment on this principle issue now, and it has a very practical approach. I believe that the challenges in the industry, at least in parts of the country, are of such a nature that close dialogue and understanding between the parties is very important. In my view, rejection of the agreement could have totally unforeseeable and chaotic consequences, particularly in the context of the proposal promoted by the Progress Party here in Stortinget yesterday. With this, I refer to the majority position and recommend that Storting support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1059	Today’s agricultural agreement continues – and reinforces – the change in agricultural policy that began last year. It gives agriculture an income-lift. This is absolutely necessary after agriculture, including as a percentage, has experienced a clearly weaker income growth than other groups in recent years. The agreement facilitates an increase in income of NOK 17 000 per year. annual work — compared to 2007 before the settlement. We have to go back in time around the escalation in the 1970s to find a settlement where agriculture was supposed to get so strong growth compared to other groups. That's good, and it's a necessary boost, not least in view of the previous ageing period and during the previous government, as agriculture slowed down sharply in income, even then in percentage terms. And when I hear the debate here in the Chamber, where questions are asked about why the expectations of this government are high, I have to say that it's just to sit down with the statistics and look at income trends – or lack of income development – under the previous government. Then one understands that the expectations for a new policy are great. The agricultural settlement of the year also gives completely different answers to the right-hand party during the treatment of the 2007 budget, with cuts of DKK 6 billion and 2 billion respectively. Then we look at the setting of the left-hand right-hand triangle in the agricultural policy. I find that disappointing, but at the same time it makes clear the lines of Norwegian policy. At the level of single use, the reference use calculations show isolated income estimates of the measures in the agreement of approximately 24 500 kroner per year. annual works, and grass-based productions come out significantly better than that. There has been a lot of discussion about the work of the Budgetary Department this year. This year, as in the past, the company has provided the agreed material and provided the basis on which it considers it to be the most appropriate negotiating material. It's the Budgetary Department's decision. For the sake of order, I would like to point out that neither I nor the then leader of the Norwegian Farmers' and Farmers' Teams are in the Budgetary Department for Agriculture. A solid revenue promise was therefore a main theme of the negotiations. It's necessary. Because, although positive in some areas of agriculture, it is weaker in areas such as the West, Agder, Telemark and North Norway. At the same time, there is under-covering of Norwegian-produced meat from grass-based animals. It's a serious warning to me. Because we can't guarantee the production of beef and sheep meat, yes, it's bad. land use many site grazing and landscape care important contributions to employment and economic activity in many districts Therefore, grass-based productions are highly priority. Developments in these areas are an early sign of a critical point in relation to the achievement of the objectives of agricultural policy. Therefore, the use of contract funds is targeted and effective in this way. A particularly important social contribution from Norwegian agriculture lies in a diverse use structure with production across the country. That is why I am pleased that, in addition to a substantial revenue increase, we also strengthen the structural profile of grants. It contributes to profitable operation on a different scale. The entrance ticket is lowered, the bottomline is lowered, the subsidies for the first animals are increased, a separate operating grant for sheep farming is established and the grazing arrangements are substantially strengthened. That's the best contribution we can make to a still varied usage structure and an open landscape. And I am convinced that a still varied use structure is crucial for a living agriculture that uses the agricultural area we have in Norway. In this way, the agricultural agreement strengthens a number of specific environmental instruments, with a view to reducing pollution and safeguarding the cultural landscape and the world heritage. An individual climate programme and a test scheme for better management of manure and minor emissions are established. When I hear some representatives in the debate here today on climate policy, one would think that the climate problems were something that emerged when this government took over. It would have been possible to introduce climate action also for previous governments. After many years of dissatisfaction in the dairy sector, we are taking action to bring peace and predictability to this sector. This happens after a long time working with the case and extensive dialogue with the actors. I am proud and happy to be able to make these necessary changes. And I have to say that the framework conditions laid down by the previous government were not good enough to secure competition. A good agricultural settlement requires a willingness to invest in agriculture. That's what we've done. While the last government cut budget transfers by 600 million. NOK, we've increased them immediately in two years. An increased budget is needed in this area to achieve the ambitious and good objectives we have set ourselves, simply to enable agriculture to solve the important tasks it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1093	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1096	There was a lot of talk in the Council of State that it might be interesting to make a comment. I think we can agree that the play for the agricultural negotiations this year became very special, and it ended up with the leader of the Small Farm team withdrawing, because, she claimed, both the Council of State personally and the Council of Ministers contacted her in advance, before the negotiations began, to change the method of calculating the incomes of farmers. It is a special procedure that the State as a party to the case, with the two leading representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, should begin to press a party to change these figures. Can the Council of State confirm that he made this contact, and will the Council of State in the future change his behaviour so that he does not proceed in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1105	I had a telephone conversation with the head of the Norwegian Bond team, Bjarne Undheim, and a telephone conversation with the head of Norwegian Farmers' Association, Anne Osland. The content of those phone calls I have not intended to reproduce, but I can reproduce what I just said in the pulpit, that neither the head of the Norwegian Farmers' Association, the head of the Norwegian Farmers' Association, nor I am in the Budgetary Department for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1110	Although the dispute surrounding the market organisation for milk appears to be finding a solution, we note that the attacks by the Council of State on the competitors of cooperatives continue. The process of foreign processing has gone beyond stocks and rocks, and the last new one is that the Government has submitted a new regulation that will apply from 1 July. This regulation has been substantially amended in relation to what was decided by the Stortinge in connection with the State budget and a quota system is now being put in place that has not been consulted. This rule appears to be a special design to take a single competitor to the Notura system out of the Norwegian market. The evening post revealed Tuesday that the regulation could be contrary to the obligations of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of services, and today it is stated in the same newspaper that the Government will not state its assessments relating to this issue. In any case, the regulation will have implications for competition and consumer policy. Can the Council of State tell us a little about what is the Government's assessment of the consumer consequences of this regulation? And is the regulation clarified with our trading partners in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1117	I have briefed my respective colleagues in the EU on the decisions taken in Norway on this issue, so we have had a good process on it. In addition, it is important to point out that this is a national issue. This is not within the scope of the EEA Agreement. This is in the same way as when changes were made to these arrangements by former governments, decisions that this government has made based on Norwegian assessments, but of course it is important to have a dialogue with those to whom the representative Hansen refers as our trading partners. What's the whole point of this is to make sure that we have a predictable situation in the Norwegian food industry over time. Taking Norwegian food out of the country to be processed in countries with lower compensation of employees, then reintroducing duty-free, will lead to an unpredictable situation and will result in a gradual change in the places of production in the food industry. There is no forward-looking system, and therefore it is important now to put in place a system that is predictable and that provides a good framework for the further development of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1124	After I understand the media, the Center Party presses for a significant part of Norway's lift to take to reduce climate change emissions to happen domestically. If so, the Centre Party has full support from the Christian People's Party. It's a fact that 9 pst. of domestic climate change emissions come from agriculture, mainly in the form of methane gas. The development of biogas plants on the garages is a concrete tool to ensure this, but with today's design of the social security schemes, only the biggest use is to realise this. So either the social welfare systems have to change, or a few have to make a strong structuralization, and that's probably not desirable from the policy that the government has affected. So my question is, does the Council of State want a strong reduction in climate change emissions from agriculture? How does he think this should happen, and how quickly should this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1133	First of all, I have to say that I was a little disappointed now that the representative Sørfonn did not include the income development in his line, because I really wanted to discuss it here now. But we can discuss climate instead. I am of course there that I answer yes to the question from the representative Sørfonn regarding the desire to do something about climate change emissions in Norway in general and in agriculture in particular. Emissions from agriculture are an important part of emissions in Norway, and we should be able to achieve better solutions than today, both for the management of manure in cellars, spreading methods and venting in poultry. It's an area that we're working on. It was with respect to report not as much as had been done in the area when we took over. But we are working on this area, and I am committed to achieving the objectives that I hear from the representative Sørfonn are concerned about: getting good climate solutions also as part of the Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1140	After negotiations, it is rarely some of the parties who are quite satisfied, the exception may be the Central Party on this occasion, which was toasted in the champagne after the negotiations. Possibly it was a media gimmick – I don't know. Negotiations are giving and taking. What is important is that one follows the rules of the game and is honest and predictable in its procedure. According to an article by Anne Osland, she did not experience the work of the Budgetary Department as being tidy, especially not the intervention to change the method of calculation of the assets. Why does the Council of State think it was so important to make this change over the eleventh hour? And would it be equally important if the change led to a decrease in revenue for 2007 instead of an increase in revenue?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1147	First of all, this wasn't a process in eleventh hours. This was a process that went into the Budgetary Conference over a longer period of time. I also briefed about this in Stortinget earlier in ours, and I believe the same thing now that I thought, that the alarming thing about this is that it has not been done before. Changes in real interest rates, which are not part of the farmer's accounts, create a great deal of unforeseeability in the basic material of agricultural production and provide the basis for increases in income and reductions in the income of agricultural holdings which are of only theoretical value and are, in that sense, unfortunate in relation to the negotiations. I've said in Stortinget before, and I still believe that the most surprising thing is that it hasn't happened before. This is how I am pleased that what was done this year was done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1155	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1158	The agricultural settlement of the year shows no real change in the price of agriculture. Continued efforts are being made to negotiate a nationwide agreement and to give the impression that, like the previous ones, this agreement will lead to a large revenue gap for all those who choose agriculture as their main source of income. History shows us that this is not true, because the numbers show us that every year the operation is shut down by thousands of uses. There may therefore be a need for certain batches to try to conceal this fact behind filled glass of champagne. Unfortunately for the farmers, the realities do not disappear even if you choose to toast to an excellent agricultural product. At the same time, it is disappointing once again to observe that the government does not choose to take on the fact that things are happening in the international arena. Nothing in the agreement we are discussing today shows an offensive move to meet the challenges ahead of a new WTO agreement will provide agriculture. The government chooses to ignore the challenges, which unfortunately will only lead to a tougher transition when this agreement is in place. It is a bit like driving a motorcycle for 160 km/h, raising the helmet, closing your eyes and betting that there will not be a turn. It'll be a dangerous way to travel in traffic. It is disappointing, therefore, that the Government does not agree this time with changes to the agreement that will prevent agricultural policy from running into the ditch. It is to hope that in the future you will look at the farmer as the Progress Party does, namely as a self-employed person. This would be positive for Norwegian agriculture, because it will then be possible to focus on the obstacles to profitable operation and how to make industry more attractive and profitable by deregulating legislation and reducing public red tape, taxes and taxes. Instead, the government continues to pursue a policy that has provided 20 000 fewer farmers since 2000. Conducting a policy that determines the price, the volume of production or what can be produced will at any time limit the creativity and innovation. The government therefore chooses to continue a policy based on the principles that food production can be governed by bureaucrats and politicians, and that the Government can plan an input increase for an industry that has its income from food production. It is true that this agreement can increase income, but it cannot be presented as an increase in income for all in the agricultural sector, as some government representatives do. The Party wishes to have free agriculture which gives each producer a real choice in terms of production, within the limits set by the market, self-interest and economy. I trust that creativity and creativity are also present in the agricultural sector, but we lack incentives to develop this. Restrictions on forms of operation should be liberalised in order to make farmers equal to the rest of the economy. Aid schemes and regulations need to be gradually reduced, possibly combined with compensation schemes which provide support for those who are adversely affected by changes in agricultural policy over a period of time. The same should apply to taxes and charges, in order to enable manufacturers to compete on equal terms without any interference by public authorities other than those resulting from health and environmental requirements, as well as animal protection requirements. It may be time for the farmer to also benefit from the benefits that the market economy has given to everyone else. Why the farmer cannot deliver the product he himself has produced, to whatever he wants, and at the highest possible price, will always appear to me as strange. Instead, the government parties choose to allocate the Community resources to subsidise an operating structure that will be changed regardless of the government. Therefore, as I see it, this is the misuse of billions of dollars every year in an attempt to stop a development that will in any case happen. So despite these billion transfers, it's going to be dropped four to five times a day. Such a billion-dollar rate in all other areas of industrial policy with such a result would probably have led to the resignation of a State Council. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the well-regulated policy that has been in place in this area for all years and that has not stopped the decline in the number of farmers remains the priority policy of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1184	We now have this year's agricultural agreement to deal with. I want to start by saying that I am very happy that we came up with a solution to which both the Farmers and the Small Farmers joined. This was an indication to which there were great expectations; there have been many so far in the debate. But it was just supposed to be missing. We have a government now that has signaled very clearly and clearly that she will bet on agriculture. This year's result was a historically good one, following the last year's agreement with another lift to agriculture. With an increased income frame of 975 million. kr, corresponding to an increase in income of approximately NOK 17 000 per year. Annual work from 2007 to 2008, there is every reason to be happy. This returns an increase in income of 10 pst. In comparison, the annual growth in income over the last few years on average has been 2 3/4 pst. in agriculture, while other groups on average have received 4 pst. In the distribution, there were other parts. agreed to give priority to grass-based livestock farming. Some have called this agreement for the time being sheep farmers, and there is every reason for the sheep farmers to be naked. I'm hoping that this will now reverse the developments we've seen in the last few years, where the smallest sheep farming goes out. In fact, their number is halved in five years. It is particularly bad for the cultural landscape that the sheep disappears, and it is also worth noting that there is an undercoverage of sheep in the market. We should have all the leaders for sheep keeping here in the country. The government has seen ambitious targets for organic production. The aim is to increase demand for Norwegian-produced goods. Through this year's agreement, the economy of those with a long-term perspective of conversion to organic farming is strengthened. Organic production is also environmentally friendly if we produce it and have the ability to get raw materials here. It's going to be a paradox when you have to get raw materials for organic food production from the other side of the globe, at least when we're going to see it in an environmental context. This agreement also invests in the environment. We're betting on bioenergy, that's one example, but I want to say a little bit about other environmental measures. The mother's suit has been given extra attention in this statement. Social benefits for, inter alia: catch ponds are a measure that helps to improve water quality there. But all the municipalities within this watercourse, from the municipality of Ski in the north to the municipality of Rygge in the south, have done a great job here. With solutions such as: catch ponds, which improve water quality, will in the long term produce results. It is important that there is still a local pressure, but it is also important that we can provide extra funds over the agreements. I would like to make some comments on the needs for initial investment facing agriculture, not least in order to meet the requirements of animal welfare and new rules on unemployment from 2024. Here we need to cooperate with the industry in order to make this transition as smooth as possible, and the investment agency should be given priority to the conversion or new construction of these requirements. There should be no doubt that Norwegian agriculture is actually adaptable. I am impressed by the creativity and potential for innovation that I see in Norwegian agriculture. The black measurement carried out by the Progress Party in particular in the case of Norwegian agriculture, we in the Labour Party take too far away from it. Nevertheless, I thought it was a good idea to see a joint committee stressing that the basic wall of future agriculture is to develop agriculture as a food producer, and that it should facilitate a varied use structure that takes into account both traditional family use and provides opportunities for different forms of cooperation. It may seem as if it is a cross-political deal to still have the amazingly fine agriculture we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1205	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1208	The Newspaper The Nations present this week an internal progress party message. Three of the party's rapporteur's candidates are in favour of a new recognition of agricultural policy in the party. Knut Flölo, the leading party rapporteur in the municipality of the West, says, as it is true, that if we introduce free competition in this area, it is the end. Norway, as it is known, is thoughtful. This rather obvious recognition of agricultural policy is denied by the economic fraction of the Progress Party, which considers today's farmers to be almost public employees more than self-employed food producers. The party will reduce agricultural aid, remove the agricultural agreement, open borders and increase competition from abroad without further delay – and at the same time, agricultural policy will no longer be anchored in rural policy. And so the Progress Party responds to its own rapporteur candidates: together with the Right, the Progress Party rejects the agricultural settlement on a principle basis. They are opposed to a system in which farmers' organisations negotiate annually with the state about farmers' incomes and welfare schemes, just as they have opposed central wage settlements between the social partners. It is quite interesting that they flag such views in connection with the agricultural settlement of the times, the year in which the Government and farmers' organisations for the first time in several years have provided for income development in agriculture in line with other occupational groups, and so on. It's in itself a strong warning to Building Norway from the right. In my view, agricultural policy shows the right-left dimension of Norwegian policy. Government parties want an agricultural sector producing safe food and ensuring food supply, housing and employment in large parts of the country. Then we have to have a varied use structure adapted to the production conditions in the different parts of the country. In fact, we need import protection, a viable processing industry and strong cooperative organisations that can ensure the farmers' marketing of their products. The opposite is the market alignment of agriculture by the Party of Advancement and the Right – and, in part, the Left – with increased imports of agricultural products, deregulation and increased competition. It is an agricultural policy for the largest and strongest and for the wider countryside. The result of this policy is, just as the Progress Party says, to loosen the ties between rural and agricultural policies, because it really means the closure of rural agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1219	I'm glad we have a well-functioning agriculture that produces quality food in all parts of the country. Food production is the most important, but the importance of agriculture for maintaining the cultural landscape in claim and for housing and living areas is also very important. I am pleased with the increase in income contained in the agreement, and for the priority of rural agriculture. This is a development that is absolutely necessary and needs to be continued in order to ensure farmers' income in line with other groups in society. It is good that an overall committee has taken note of the great need for investment in agriculture. I feel that there is now optimism in the industry, and that that is why there is a willingness to bet. In some parts of the country, it is easier to make large investments in agriculture using private lenders than it is in other parts of the country. In the northern part of the country, there are many young, active farmers who are struggling with investment because of lack of capital. I therefore hope that the funding opportunities for agriculture can be such that they can be invested in the industry in all parts of the country. I never stop wondering about the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. It seems that the Progress Party has not come to the conclusion that there has been a formidable transformation and modernisation of Norwegian agriculture. Even worse, the Progress Party does not understand that it is impossible for farmers to convert topography and climatic conditions. At least I read the comments of the Progress Party like this, and these comments have been the same for many years. What kind of freedom and competition is the Progress Party talking about, when we know what kind of dramatic differences there are in the conditions of competition in agriculture? As the representative of Mr Gullvåg was in the Chamber, there was an article in the Nation on 11 June, where it is clearly seen that the party's agricultural policy is tumbling in the Progress Party. Here it is clear that several of the party's local politicians have put down their feet and will not have the policy of their own party foreshadowing here in the Stortinget. I am pleased that polls show that most people support an agricultural policy where the state is strongly involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1236	The development of agriculture in the last year confirms my assessment of last year's agricultural settlement in this matter. The claim that it looks like the negotiations that took place at the agricultural negotiations last year are keeping pace only has new methods in the budget title for agriculture. Estimated income per year In this way, annual work will be increased by approximately NOK 10000. The financial framework for the agricultural settlement of the year is larger than in several years, with a net sustained increase in the income option of 415 million. kr. This is positive, but seafaringly far from historical good, and does not change the agricultural development rate. But it has a positive impact on rate of closure and out-of-use areas. The opposition has no common policy, but all opposition parties' policies would result in lower income opportunities. We also have historical experience of this. According to St.prp. No 68 for 2005-2006, on agricultural production last year, increased income for other groups of occupations by 57 pst. from 1996 to 2005, i.e. from just over 200000 kroner to 360 000 kroner. If the income of farmers had increased by the same percentage, as the Stortinge generates the income each year, the income would now have been NOK 230000 per year. annual work. Despite the loss of 30,000 annual works, there is remuneration for employment and equity per year. Annual works in normalised accounts from the Agricultural Budgetary Department fell from 60 to 40 p.m. in relation to other groups of occupations of 10 years. This is going well. Sheep meat is now also imported into the grassland of Norway. Societal tasks that the Norwegian population wants agriculture to carry out will not be carried out when many professionals lose hope for the future in the industry. A few young people are betting in the industry. They are characterised by large debts, enormous labour pressure and establish a large transport company with significant negative environmental impacts. These young people depend entirely on large increases in government budget appropriations, more than the entire net income is from government appropriations. Only the few young people with a high level of equity, large areas of their own, solid education and who make a unique effort to work with a similar lack of leisure time shall be responsible for the volume of Norwegian food production. This is a fundamental breach of our family practice, but in the case of example. milk, in line with what Kåre Gjøne's staging message provided. This course is not sustainable in any way, at least if the WTO agreement were to implement what the opposition wants, namely further weakening import protection. Then market prices will be even lower. There is a need for innovation. Agriculture has an even more important role to play in the future in relation to food security and the production of increased renewable energy. The Ministry of Agriculture presents a good picture of what is needed in the future in the Green Week. It must now be discussed and put into a system. There is a urgent need to ensure a varied usage structure with family use and not a company of shares throughout the country, to do the job that the people want to be done. A stepping-up plan for agriculture is needed to close the gap, which has become dramatic since 1993. The agricultural negotiations must be based on the same calendar year as for other occupational groups — i.e. for the current year — we use the same figures as for other groups, and then we also have the opportunity to look at developments in income levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1249	I will not spend much time on the new methods of calculation in the Budget Title, which would form the very basis for the agricultural settlement, the fixed, neutral, professionally based starting point. But I came to realize that the leader of Norwegian Farmers' Associations, Anne Osland, went off because of disagreement in the Budgetary Department earlier this year. The government and the Norwegian Confederation wished to calculate methods that have one thing in common: the peasants would be better placed on the statistics than they would have done on the old way of calculating — and today’s government would be better politically. There were enormous expectations for the agricultural settlement of the year. The result is probably not as clear as the expectations created – to quote the leader of the Nord-Trøndelag Bondelag: «It is clear that I am disappointed, but it was still right to sign the agreement.» The downturn is justified by the Government's signals for the settlement that it would invest in agriculture. He also said that he did not think that these signals had been followed up in this year's agreement. From another point of view, there is a belief that agriculture will assess the government only according to what it delivers in the future, and not according to what they say. One thing is that one weakens the credibility of politicians – that one laws and laws and does not keep – but for the sake of industry it is a lack of predictability that helps to weaken the farmer's motivation and faith in the future. There are, of course, good elements in this settlement. One of the positive elements is the establishment of operating grants for sheep. Hopefully, this may help to counteract the large loss of holdings within the sheep farm, but may also help to stagnate some of the greening we see of previous pastures. Agriculture produces cultural landscapes. We can't import landscapes, as we can, for example. with meat. The travel industry lives on our beautiful landscape. Therefore, it is important for more people that this is taken good care of. One must be able to give the farmer freedom of choice. But freedom of choice must not lead to one not choosing at all – it will be the most dramatic choice. One cannot let it scour and walk for a long time. Good and predictable welfare arrangements are therefore important. This has a clear connection with motivating and recruiting new users. It is also important to have a greater degree of flexibility, among other things. by opening up the possibility of renting milk quotas. This will allow more people to have a different option than to be forced to sell the milk quota. One should also be willing to look at the geographical constraints and the number of participants and participation in the joint ventures. Agriculture is a highly capital-intensive industry. The industry is ahead of large expansion costs in the time to come. A rigid law helps to make access to capital difficult for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1272	I see from a reading in the United Nations on 11 June this year that the Minister of Agriculture believes grazing should be the last resort to prevent unwarranted suffering or the risk of suffering to animals on the outback. I am very pleased with this statement, because where the predatory game problems are great, it is gratifying to think of an extra burden, both psychologically and economically, for those involved. I say it so that these farmers have enough to fight against four-legged predators if they don't have to fight against tobehind food surveillance. Sitting government has already put in place many measures to limit the losses of domestic animals on the set-aside. We're not in the port yet, but finally the government knows that the Food Authority will be able to make decisions on pasturage, which must be the last resort, then it has to be compensated, and this is happening from 2007. I'm on the Energy and Environment Committee and I'm very concerned about our world heritage. It is then gratifying to read that the Economic and Social Committee has decided to allocate 3 million. kr to a World Heritage Site of the Agricultural Development Fund. Of our seven World Heritage Sites, there are two that need an extra boost in relation to the cultural landscape. It's Western fjord landscapes and the Vega Islands. Both of these areas need reinforced measures to maintain the cultural landscape, in particular to prevent re-growth and to stimulate greater grazing. With this effort, we can be on our way to achieving the objective of St.meld. No 16 for 2004-2005 Living with cultural memories, which state that the Norwegian World Heritage Sites are to be presented as examples of ‘best practices’ in cultural memory management. The big message was submitted by the Bondevik II administration, and it is quite strange that the Right now is not included in the comment in the Innst. S. No 285, which can really give rise to the UNESCO World Heritage Sites associated with agriculture and cultural landscapes. I think it might be of great interest if you could follow up a larger cultural landscape project, for example the Vega Islands – including the buffer zone. This could provide us with useful information both on the cost side and on the business positive results of such investment in the district. In the future, if agriculture is to ‘manufacture’ cultural landscapes, it must be directed more specifically towards the use of grazing animals. Choosing the area will be a challenge, and to that we need knowledge. Here, I believe that the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs must contribute to an information work that can also be used in general in society in the fight against re-growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1289	I am afraid that the intentions of today's reindeer management agreement will not be achieved. The measures taken here will not be able to achieve a sustainable industry that will safeguard economic, ecological and cultural aspects. We all know that there is a long way between word and action when it comes to the big problem in West Finland: too many animals. The clean figure in West Finland is so high today that it is estimated that it is approx. 30,000 animals too much. It should be reasonably easy for most people to understand that the industry itself is not the right place to decide on the number of animals. It can be mentioned that in many cases the slaughter weight of an EYF in eastern Finland is equal to or higher than that of a calf of one and a half years in West Finland. Animal trachea occurs every day, and ecology is very far from being in balance. What we're experiencing is that none of the government parties take this seriously. I have to stop and wonder a little: who is responsible for these animal abusers that have happened and that will happen? Is that the Storting? Is that the Sameting? Is it the Norwegian Reinbriftsamer National Federation? Is that Rein driftstyrelsen? Or is it the county? One may wonder slowly, because here the responsibility is completely powdered. What you should do in West Finland in particular is go from nomadic reindeer to stationary reindeer. When the number of animals is the biggest problem in order to achieve a balance in ecology, it is that in a stationary reindeer a family can survive less than 1000 animals, while in a nomadic reindeer a family must have more than 2000 animals. When the number of animals is the problem, it should be understood that measures taken both in Sweden and Finland on stationary operations must also be implemented in Norway. If not, we'll have a mountain desert in West Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1301	Some claim that all problems have a simple solution. That's wrong. Simple solutions will create new problems in agriculture if we are to stick to the policy objectives that lie there, as well as food production itself. To ensure settlement, cultural landscapes, production and processing throughout the country, while at the same time having competitive consumer prices, there are no simple solutions. When we're dealing with a chain of actors, with partly conflicting interests, it's a difficult balance. For us as politicians, it may be a simple and therefore wrong solution to leave the industry to itself and to market forces, as the Progress Party claims repeatedly. Then we can shoot a white stick after a viable agriculture and living settlements all over the country. So I'm not saying that everything should be like it already. It would be to trick both yourself and the nutritionists. Then we will meet the wall quite brutally and get Swedish and Finnish conditions in the districts. Of course we don't want that. Our agricultural policy to this day has been based on solidarity within the industry. I'm going to say that in this industry we find something of the most solidarity we have left. It is enough to mention that the milk is collected from the manufacturer without regard to where the garden is located, and the payment is equal to the same quality. The so-called channelling policy, or the division of labour between the central area and the districts, is also an example of solidarity. A decisive question is therefore: Can we keep this solidarity hold into a new era, or will we also experience a development here against the success of each and every one of them? It annoys me that some in industry and some political parties know that solidarity needs to be taken seriously. I see no reason to hide what I myself mean. If the solidarity solutions go away, we'll go towards a development that can't be sure of the consequences. At least one thing is certain, the challenge for agriculture is not getting any less. Norwegian agriculture needs to make better use of the opportunities offered by the market. Agriculture must meet the needs of consumers, and the eating habits of the Nordics change radically. – My time has expired, I see.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1318	It's a little strange to follow the debate. The red-green perception of itself must be quite different from the one you have out there. As the representative Oppebøen Hansen had in mind, we have some overall objectives in agricultural policy. Now you should soon start to realize that none of the goals are being achieved. I think that the champagne bowl, which has been commented on in particular in the past, is going to be standing as a little bit of a symbol of how to provoke the industry in terms of results. Because after two years of Soria Moria negotiations in agriculture, frustration is really on top. Then you can ask yourself why. The representative Kvalvik from SV said that they had got a device to suit their taste. My comment about it is that everyone is tied to the mast, and then you lower the boat slowly, but surely. Nobody really gets the opportunity to follow their own strategies, and that's quite critical. Because as the representative Eldegard was in the room, there's actually a lot of creativity in agriculture. The farmer is nice, but his adaptability is arranged in a way that makes him drive even further into a backyard. The question is when to begin to take on board the fact that the situation in agriculture today is, in fact, quite different from that of 30 to 40 years ago. You talk here about traditional family farming. And the representative Kvalvik was also concerned with one job outside and one job at home. It's a romance of how the situation actually is. Family use is a place for isolation. There's a lot of research from the Agricultural College that shows it. It's co-operation that's the future, but there's obviously not the government. What's real is that both of them are looking for jobs out today, wanting orderly relationships, as well as social and professional exchanges in agriculture. So living and operating in the future becomes more dependent on finding employment elsewhere. A commitment to agriculture will depend on being able to invest professionally. It must then be taken into account that in the future agriculture will also require a completely new approach. Tragic is the fact that today you really see a reversal. Today's agricultural transfers are just 0.5 pst. GDP. In the 1980s, they were 2 pst. It illustrates that agriculture has been marginalised, and then I also take forestry with me. In many areas, there is also an important industry, and it is an important basis for District Norway. It is important to free the equity and capital that lie there and to free creativity. Then you might also pay for optimism in the future. The direction it's going today is the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1331	Representative Eng did the right thing for this case in a very good way, and I support her view of 100 percent. I want to focus a little bit on that rotation, in the right direction, this declared has for exactly my region, Sogn and Fjordane. It's not only the total money pot that counts, but also the device, as was said here. This statement has a profile in the right direction for the small business, which we have abundantly in the West. Agriculture is intended to produce clean and safe food, and active rural farming is an important tool for sustaining the main characteristics of the bushet pattern that we have in Norway. When Norway with ‘the Fjords’ becomes the world’s best destination – yes, cultural landscape care is a crossroads here. Coupling between active small farmers with grazing animals and the travel effort is quite obvious. That's why the incentive that's come for just to last the bait is very important. In fact, grazing animals are the only thing that mongooses when we're going to keep the forest away. I would also like to point out another moment, and that is that now the adopted predatory policy is starting to work. The fact that this year we've got you guys that are not in the core area is a big help to the farmers. Finally, I would like to point out that the system of agricultural negotiations actually works, where the parties are active in the design of the framework conditions for the industry, and that is important. This requires both the state and the industries. Sogn and Fjordane are an exciting country with a lot of agriculture. I really hope that this year's agricultural policy will help both to slow down and tograte the negative development that many have put down their small farms. The profile in the year's specifier is at least in the right direction. I also thought we should take along the positive signal that both the Farmers and the Small User Team have approved this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1348	The central party of the government creates hope for an agricultural policy that gives confidence to the rural community. I am pleased with our credibility in these areas, even though it is, as today, a lovely sport for other parties to look for something that may be an expression that the Center Party, after all, has not got everything they want. That's right: we don't get everything we want in a cooperative government, but the results we can point to are significant. There is no reason to overlook them, and they are not overlooked in the countryside. To be more concrete, I don’t think there are many executive farmers – or rural people in general – who experience Left’s newly oriented agricultural policy as a far-reaching hand with opportunities for the future. Many might have wanted more from the Center Party, but I haven't seen any particular demand for Left Medicine, as presented in the position and by the representative of Kongshaug. I also noticed that the representative of Kongshaug claimed that it is now the Christian People's Party and the Left who are left to defend the agricultural policy centre. That claim was unfounded. Firstly, where is it ideologically expressed in the comments we are going to read, that the Left and Christian People's Party has now launched a common agricultural policy that represents the centre? The comments simply show that the Left and Christian People's Party separates layers, that they do not stand together. Secondly, Kongshaug’s negative mention of family use was quite alarming, based on what the centre parties traditionally stood for: agriculture is seen as a contribution to housing — there must be light in the windows — and to small scale production, and it has a bearing on rural policy in general. The attack on family farming, for which Kongshaug – from the Left – and the Right are representatives, is probably one of the most negative signals to agricultural organisations, based on what they have demanded from the Government of this farm. In fact, I have more understanding of the tears of the Christian People's Party that we do not fully meet the expectations of the organizations. This must be understood in such a way that they have left at least for good the platform on which they stood in the previous government, and that they will in future be the drivers of a different policy – through a government with which they can talk after all. I'm also a little surprised that the Christian People's Party so negatively refers to the development of income that will occur through increased market prices in this farm. The increase in the consumer price of milk that this farm may lead to will probably be less – at least no more – than the packaging charge that was charged last year to the milk cartons. The price increases we can hopefully take out on meat relate to a market that demands Norwegian products, and where we have to import today. So there's room for increased Norwegian production. I don't understand exactly that part of the Christian People's Party's attack on the farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1365	I am also of those who think the rapporteur did well for the agreement, which in my view is a step forward in the right direction, by bringing farmers' incomes into line with the incomes of other groups in society. Here, of course, there's a lot to comment on. There are positive issues, as it is easy to applaud, but there are also some challenges, such as balancing the income of the farmer with the need to develop a policy that also takes care of our processing industry. The fixing of food prices is a demanding problem. At a time when we've never spent less of our income on food, and many might think of paying more for qualitatively good and safe food, we see that commodity prices in the processing industry are rising dangerously compared to competition from the imports. This must be managed in such a way that the processing industry, our second largest industrial industry, has a framework that ensures the possibility of expansion and further development. That is why I believe that the incomes of farmers in the future agricultural settlement may need to be more secured through budgetary transfers than through target price increases. I have to comment on the description of the agricultural bureaucracy by the Progress Party as the great obstacle to the farmer's ability to exploit his use. I have to say, to me, this is a completely remote description of bureaucracy in the region I come from. There we have co-located the agricultural administrations for two municipalities in the municipality that have the best conditions for an innovative and developmental advisory service. In addition, we have co-located the administration with the test ring, the accounting team, Allskog's two employees, Tine's advisers and others providing services to the farmer. This will be a unique environment of competence on which the farmer draws changes, an example of a modern organisation that is now taking place in many places around the country where it is invested in agriculture. One of the most beautiful things about this government – from my special point of view – is forest policy. The Forest Fund scheme has contributed to a strong increase in optimism and activity. With the potential for increased logging of the forest, from the current level of 8 to 11 million. m3 to a level of at least 15 mill m3, there is a high potential for bio-fuels, pulp mills and scaffolds. In addition, we get the positive effects, because the forest takes up CO2 corresponding to 50 pst annually. of the total greenhouse gas emissions. But then the forest must be actively driven. It is living forest that is the condition for the forest to be efficient in absorbing CO2. It is fantastically liberating and inspiring that the Government has now brought us out of the act of paralysis and passivity that marked the forest policy of the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1392	I think this has been both an interesting and an entertaining debate. Particularly entertaining is the fact that the Workers' Party's Steinar Gullvåg attacks on the Left's proposal to remove export aid for cheese production. This is a proposal that the Government itself has promoted in the WTO negotiations. It is quite obvious, I think, that removing export subsidies on agricultural products is necessary to ensure poor countries market access in the Western world. This is about international solidarity, so here it seems that the Workers' Party has slightly staggered its legs in relation to its own position. More worrying is the fact that the succession of lines with the state councils is probably an example of a state council that does not answer questions in the Stortinget. I asked about the government's assessment of the consumer and competition aspects of the proposal for new rules for foreign processing. In my view, it is quite obvious that such a scheme, which is now being proposed, with quota regulation, will affect competition. It will weaken the diversity of consumers and will lead to increased prices in shops. At the same time, this proposal has no significance for farmers' disposal of their own products. If the Council of State takes the floor again, it would be interesting to hear more about the Government's assessment of the competitive and consumer aspects of the new regulation. I also think it is interesting that the government parties do not have any particular ideas on how to meet the challenges of loosing and WTO negotiations. The representative of Eldegard said that she would have a dialogue with the industry related to the investment needs of agriculture. I do not think that is satisfactory. We know that the Government and the Central Party do not want to present a new big message about agriculture. At the same time, there are major challenges in this industry. I think it's unfortunate that you don't take these challenges more seriously. I think it is quite obvious that co-operation and economies of scale are necessary. There are good solutions to secure the farmer's economy. It reduces the need for transfers. It provides better opportunities in relation to environmental and climate policies, improves animal welfare in use, and improves the family situation in terms of holidays and leisure time. In that context, I believe that the bet on the so-called crowd is a total derailment. I will then give tribute to the representative Lundteg to give a more realistic presentation of the income side of this farm. There is a striking difference between the cheers we have heard from some representatives of the government parties, and the picture that Lundtigen himself drew in his post. I also fully agree with Lundtägen's statement that there is a need for innovation. I don't think that's going to happen to this government. I believe that we need to recognise the challenges in agriculture and have a real discussion about how to meet these challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1407	After sitting and taking notes after the articles that have come, and since the matter goes to the end, I could think of making some comments. I want to start with the hoaxing, as I almost call it, from the Progress Party on the Great Bureaucracy. They refer to – data with a reasonable margin – 5,000 – 10,000 people. I assume that the Progress Party also agrees that we should have a good food supervision, and only in the Food Authority, as it is today, there may be nearly 2,000 more than 1,000 settings. Probably it's a growing industry. I also note that for the Progress Party, deregulation and structuralisation are the solution for tomorrow's agriculture. I did not get a good answer as I had a reply to the Progress Party. I give them a new possibility: do we as consumers want to get equal milk prices? Otherwise, I would like to distance myself a little from what has been said that animal tragedies are only associated with small farms. Yeah, there might be an overweight there, but you're going to be as many other elements as you have to put into it. It may not be related only to animals and pawns or users. The problems are compounded and have many elements in them. I thought we should take height too many other assessments as well. So to the market organization for milk and the conversion made there. We're going to have competition – yes, it's given then, that we're going to get a higher price on the milk. I guess that's what we meant by that. It has been, and it will be, a de-scaling within agriculture. There will be not least a decals when it comes to the farmers of the future. They've got challenges, which may be on the side of ordinary agriculture. They thought that some of the solitude in agriculture could be great. It is a tight labour market, screaming for labour, and giving regulated leisure time. For this reason, there are many elements that can subtract actors from the industry. Wages and salaries are at least an important compensation in this way. And I can't let myself get into the predator problem either. I thought he was very serious. In my area, where I live, people are cursed, to say it right out. It may not be a parliamentary expression, but it may dare. People who feel the predators, if not on their bodies, see that the animals they're occupied with -- which are their subjects, their profession, of which they're proud -- are torn in pieces, while they're going to sit powerless because we don't have a good enough administration, or at least that the concentration has become too big. The predators go after the food barrel. It should be a reality. I'm asking for clearer opinions from the Food Authority, in order to get an eye on them that they need to be brought up. Otherwise, I will say in conclusion – I see the clock is running – that I have great confidence in the people who are going to do their job in connection with agriculture being a part of the emission and environmental problem. People who don't have dirty -- if they don't use the mold, but the soil -- under the nails, they're grounded, and they're good at taking reality. I simply believe that a good cooperation between them will give us the improvements that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1426	The President assesses the representative's assessment of what is good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1429	The Council of State pointed out in its statement that the Left has been involved in a right-wing revolution in Norwegian agricultural policy. Later, the representative Dagfinn Sundsbø has been involved in the same matter. I hope that those who expressed their opinion on it do not rely on the nations, but that they have actually read the comments made by the Business Committee in connection with agricultural policy. It is that the Left stands with the Christian People's Party in some comments. The left side stands with the Right and the Advance Party in some notes. The left is also associated with the government parties in some notes. That's what the central policy is: to be able to stand together on both sides. Unfortunately, the Centre Party does not see the challenges facing farmers today in the competitive labour market that we have. It's a global labour market, and if we reverse agricultural policy instead of modernising it, we do agriculture a bear service. My wish is that the Center Party looks at its own position and its own movements in the direction in which they have gone. So I registered when I asked if the council could tell me what a family use is, that I did not get an answer to it. The representative Dagfinn Sundsbø claimed that I spoke negatively about family use. I didn't do it. I ask the representative to listen carefully after we have the floor. I can quote what I said. But what I'm concerned about is, what's a family practice? Isn't it true that there are families living in all uses, mostly, in this country, perhaps except where there are cooperatives and one has organized it in another way? I understood the Central Party's definition of family use so that it's used as they are today. There are people coming to me who say they have so and so much quota. They've figured it out and they find that it's not profitable to build up that quota, and they've got a new quota. So they are seeking Innovation Norway for funding. There they get the answer: No, you put the priority behind those who are going to build on the existing quota. Do you not see the dilemma facing the nutritionists? One is not a priority if one wants to expand because of profitability, but one is a priority if one builds on the existing quota. Of course, the nutritionist himself – I know – needs to look at the profitability. That is what is crucial when entering into such investments. It could have been interesting to hear what a family practice really is. The policy of the previous government has been a lot of haphazard, and it has been said that there is only niche production and volume production. We're also interested in family use, but we have a different perception of the movement in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1450	We have now heard several speakers from the Right depreciating Norwegian agriculture. At the very least, the representative Gundersen is going, who cannot see any future for Norwegian agricultural production at all. This is quite expressively expressed. At the same time, of course, it is a quite unanimous judgment on his own government, as it led agricultural policy in the previous enlargement period. I have to say that the farmers have some fear of the jam if these parties – and then, of course, I count the Advance Party to the right – would have a decisive influence on Norwegian agricultural policy. These right-wing parties have thus today launched a number of proposals that will have a significant impact on Norwegian agriculture in total. Firstly, they will amend the regulation on the foreign processing of meat and dairy products so that imported low-priced products can easily enter the Norwegian market. They want to cancel the concession limits for egg production, so that everyone can produce as much as they like. They will remove the agricultural agreement so that the Storting can determine unilaterally the incomes of the farmers, and the Right will replace it with a consultation system. They will soften the legislation on the marketing of milk quotas so that the largest can buy out the smallest. And the Left will liquidate the export subsidies on cheese from the next contract year, with the consequence that I have described in a line earlier. So there's a price that left obviously is willing to pay. They will prejudge a WTO agreement in this way, they will not even wait until the agreement is there. The challenge in Norwegian agricultural policy in the next few years will be to provide profitable jobs, housing and employment in rural areas while ensuring that the processing industry remains competitive under a new international trade regime. This would lead to improper conversions into Norwegian agricultural policy. But if we choose the medicine that the right parties prescribe, a reduction in import protection and the removal of export subsidies will lead to a large-scale closure of the use and depopulation of the countryside. The government shows another way, with the introduction of production-independent grant schemes such as the grazing premium and the area grant, and with a focus on local food, green care, tourism, bioenergy – i.e. areas that can provide important subsidies to farm and that can offset the agricultural policy paradox that lies at a reasonable level of income in agriculture and sound raw material prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1463	First, I would like to comment on a point made by several speakers in relation to the fact that there has been a look-up in the nations where some of the rapporteurs of the Progress Party have criticised the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. To that end, the views that these persons prejudge during that interview are not in line with the country-agreed programme of the Progress Party. It is also not in line with the Code of Good Organisational Culture of the Advance Party. So there is no uprising in the Progress Party on the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, but we still have good use for our course in good organisational culture. I'm a future farmer, unlike most people here in the hall. I want to have asked myself about the government's agricultural policy. I think most people who have an entrepreneurial spirit, who want to bet, don't go into agriculture with the guidelines for agriculture today. With all the possibilities they have, they will choose other types of arenas to terminate their entrepreneurial ambition. You don't go into an industry where there are government-determined income targets, and where there are government-determined rules both here and there. Then you will find something that is somewhat more exciting. I record that several speakers from the government parties have tried to have some enthusiasm around this settlement. I don't think they have done anything special about it. It is said that agriculture should have an income growth comparable to that of other groups, and I would like to ask the following questions: What other occupational groups are comparable to the agricultural sector? Are they teachers? Are they nurses? What other groups are those that have a business that can be comparable to a holder? After all, there must be a trader, one who operates an establishment – no other trader receives his income from public budgets. I'm registering that both Arne L. Haugen and Sigrun Eng are trying to ridicule the views of the Progress Party on agricultural bureaucracy. It seems like the region like Arne L. The Haugen is part of, has done some good work in terms of agricultural bureaucracy. My point – and our point – is to get on the table what agricultural bureaucracy is, and how many there are working in the agricultural bureaucracy. But the Minister of Agriculture is not able to answer relatively simple questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1477	I have to speak when the representative of Gullvåg makes claims that I want to cancel agriculture. On the contrary, I thought I said the opposite. I am relatively optimistic about the possibilities of agriculture and agriculture, but then one must in fact reinvent the self-employed farmer who gets to take advantage of his creativity and adaptability and adaptability to create what he actually thinks he has the opportunity to survive in the future. Then I'm optimistic, and I actually thought I had expressed that. Gullvåg is also talking about large-scale degradation. What have we had? We have gone from 150 000 to 50 000 uses with the agricultural policy that is still standing and prices in the clouds. That's what I call pulling down the roller coaster and forgetting to see what the world looks like. It has neither District Norway nor agriculture very well. So a little comment to the representative Eng, who's been going to turn the Food Safety Authority into a growth business in Norway. Then I'll be scared. We need the Food Authority, but we don't need food supervision that has twice as many employees as the equivalent supervision in, for example. Sweden has. Then at least it's time to see how effective it works. I was more grateful to the representative Eng for addressing the predatory issue. I record that there are now reactions in completely different areas than in those that are hit hardest. I myself come from an area that lies within the wolf zone, and there has been practically annihilation of livestock farming. It is an agricultural policy which is also being pursued by today's government. I had appreciated that Eng had also taken it up, so you got a real discussion about what the predatory policy is now going on, means too many people out in District Norway. That's where I think Eng had a very good point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1488	I have some brief answers and comments on some of the things that have come to mind. First to the representative Torbjørn Hansen, who wants a profound response to foreign processing, and what he refers to as tightening up around it. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to frame the system and introduce allowances. It creates predictability, but at the same time it makes it possible to continue to use foreign processing as a supplementary scheme in relation to existing production, for example: if one of a holding wishes to produce a sample product for which it is not possible to obtain in Norway. As regards the consumer policy aspect and the tightening-up to which Torbjørn Hansen referred in relation to the current situation, it is not possible to carry out supplementary production outside, as some companies have done today. Then it was Kongshaug's representative who also challenged a little in relation to some issues. It was about whether some of us had just read the nations, or whether we had read the setting in terms of the left left hand triangle of agricultural policy. I can assure you that I have done both. I read the whole setting this morning at the latest, and I don't think it's very difficult to read what's in the comments from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. I also think the representative Kongshaug supports it in the post he held in the hall today. It should be an honest thing. If that's the position of the Left in the agricultural policy landscape, I expect the Left will recognize it. With regard to family use and its definition, family use is a use where family labour is the basis of the farm activities. It is in line with the tradition of the Norwegian agricultural model, and it is a tradition that it is important to take it further. Now I have the opportunity to travel quite a lot around the country, not least in the last few weeks. When the representative of Kongshaug here gives the impression that the sitting government has closed the door for optimism and innovation in the countryside, I have to say with my hands on the heart that out in the countryside, I still have some people's demands for the reintroduction of the agricultural policy of the Left, not least the reintroduction of an income development of 2 3/4 p.m. per 1 % years, as we had during the period that was — a trend in income that has made demands and expectations of increased income the way they are this year. People feel that they have long been lagging behind as a result of the policy that Kongshaug has now repeated is the solution for agricultural policy in the future. So to what I really took the floor for, in 14 seconds, I'm just going to say that of course I'm also happy that there's a reindeer agreement this year. It has a profile designed to facilitate maximum slaughtering and good marketing of reindeer meat in the market, which is a key contribution in terms of sound resource use and a good industry economy. I refer otherwise to the Storting's treatment of the reindeer management law and that the agreement follows the themes that have been addressed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1503	It has been interesting to follow the debate. Many have pointed to further developments in agriculture in the future. I think it is also natural in such a debate to look back at the developments that have taken place in agriculture. From 1989 to 2006, the number of agricultural holdings has been reduced by 44 pst. - Almost a half. This has happened without the Progress Party being in the government offices. We have been involved in some subsidiary support for some state budgets, but it is therefore entirely other parties responsible for the development that has taken place. Then I find it quite strange that there is such a sharp shot at the Progress Party in this debate – when you have that story with you. We also have it with us when we deal with this matter today. As stated in the proposal, 1 600 agricultural holdings will be closed this year. Someone chooses to celebrate it with champagne, others will celebrate it with sour milk – actually there should have been tombs you might have marked something like that. I find it sad that the economic operators operating in this sector experience such an arrogance from this government – but it gets to be the government's responsibility. So I would like to comment a little bit on what Sigrun Eng had to do with the predator issue. I must admire the representative, Mr Eng, who has the gift of rudeness. In the last period, we were dealing with the robbery message. Then there was a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, Right, Christian People's Party, SV and Left, who made an agreement on the report of predators. The Progress Party and the Center Party strongly warned against the policy they put forward. The fact that the Central Party has abandoned the policy that was in place in the last period, we are only getting a registration. As soon as they knew the smell of the government quarters and painted some black, fine cars that could carry the state councils around, they threw that policy overboard. So it is only the Progress Party that can stand with a straight back in this Chamber and tell us that the predatory policy that is now being pursued is the other parties responsible for it. When Sigrun Eng tries to claim that the Food Agency is responsible for this, I have to say that the fright almost lacks a parallel in this room. It's almost shameful to make such accusations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1516	The President does not think that the ‘gift of luck’ fits well in the parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1519	The last article shows that the adrenaline is rising slightly in this debate. I would like to comment on the internal settlement of Mr Asmyhr's representative with his own rapporteurs from the European Parliament. It is rare to hear such clear words about bad organizational culture spoken here from the pulpit. What is probably the problem for Kielland Asmyhr is that these three rapporteurs say that a little more attention needs to be paid to the central party's policy, which they believe helps to secure agriculture in their municipalities. I think that's important to take with me. Otherwise, I would like to mention that the Progress Party is trying to sell market liberalism under the slogan «Get rid of the farmer». Then it's interesting to ask, "Freedom of what?" Freedom to work more for less payment? Freedom from joint and several arrangements? Freedom from having neighbours? – I think it’s important to bring it with me. Freedom to have some vacation and leisure time? Freedom to participate in a hard international agricultural competition? Freedom to receive support for cultural landscape care? What is the situation is that the freedom of the Progress Party is inconceivable and of little value to the peasant. There is also little to be done to protect and protect against predators by making political decisions in the Grand Duchy unprofitable the cultivation of the soil, the care of the cultural landscape and the production of food. The market liberalism of the Progress Party, the closure of the agricultural policy by the Progress Party will be more devastating for the countryside than predators and unfortunate protection measures combined.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1530	Where rude I am, be up to each one to judge. But I feel the need to comment on what Korsberg said, and to the extent that Gundersen also said. At least I can refer to what I have done in the Nordic Council, where I have made suggestions for a Nordic administration of predators. And then we'll see what it's going to be, because predators are going a long way, and it's a big challenge. I don't think we're going to have any other predator policy than to have a 'unified' predator policy, where the predator is also going to have its place. One should be able to stall when the destination is reached – and then I won't make any number of it. The Food Authority is responsible for the fact that it is going to be as it is – no, I have never meant that. It's an oversight we're talking about. The Food Authority will have enough people to do the jobs we ask them to do. When we look at tasks by task – perhaps not least within the service industry, where the biggest tasks are at least to be found per. date – I believe that the Food Safety Authority, in line with what I have experienced in the case of other supervision, will grow and insert the pressure where it should be. When it comes to food supervision and predators, I think the Food Authority should give a clear and clear signal when no grazing can take place. I haven't owed the Food Authority anything. We must receive an instruction – so that we have something to live on – in respect of the work of the farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1541	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1544	It also had my predecessor, and she got 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1551	The President will state that there is another rule for the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1554	I don't want to recommend anyone to look at the central party's policy. You might ask yourself, what is the Central Party's policy? We have seen here that the agricultural agreement has been priced, while Lars Peder Breck says that this year's settlement is not sufficient, even though he has tried to give the impression of something else in his many letters of readers in the past – or almost the only one from the government parties who have sent out a reader's letter on the agricultural settlement. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen is honest – and he should have boasted about that. He says the agreement is far from historical good, the course is not sustainable, and there is a need for innovation. We need a stepping-up plan for agriculture. Much of what Lundtägen and Breck have been involved in, probably also the opposition can join, and then you can ask the question: What is the central party's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1563	It has not been particularly encouraging to follow this debate from the sideline periodically today, given what I believe is the major challenges ahead. I am absolutely sure that one day, in four to five years' time, when a WTO agreement is going to be launched, the powerful centralization wave that is now raging the country – it has never been bigger than it is right now, under the red-green government – has set its mark, and one can ask himself the question: what did one do to rust up agriculture, for example. in the context of the 2007 agricultural agreement, to be able to meet this challenge? I'm pretty sure one's going to shake a little bit on his head over that one didn't do the right things. – I see it lights up here, President, but I assume I have 3 minutes of speaking time, and not 1 minute. – It is such that there is an uprising in a more modern direction around many villages. With regard to life there, how do you organise work between farms? How do you live? The level of education is increasing. All this makes people adapt to a future, and there is a need for us to have an agricultural policy that goes after this. In any case, there is less traditional use in operation, which is called conservative family farming, which the Council of State is talking about, etc., but there is an opportunity for many more people to live and live their lives with diversely complex businesses, based on farms and farm resources, in a completely different way. That's what can create lives in the countryside and compensate for the loss of traditional agriculture. In this debate, the perspective of the future has been absent – such a perspective is the only one that can guarantee rural life and modernity. I think it is alarming that no one is trying to see what we are doing today, in the light of what we are likely to face in terms of the WTO challenges ahead. Many of the instruments we know will change. We know that this government and the previous government – which had the same attitude to this – have already admitted that there will be major changes here, for example. in the target price system, by removing policy-determined prices. There will be significant changes in the entire agricultural policy, and it is, in my opinion, absolutely crucial if Norwegian farmers and agriculture are to get out of this in a good way, that we are going to get started today. There is not very much in the Greatness dealing with today, which points in such a direction, but I would like to say to this government's praise that it has also not reversed the important things from the previous government that are moving in a modern direction. The heavy, important structural measures lie there, and the decisive policy is firm. It's just the rhetorical user to silence this policy, which is the problem. Why doesn't it really matter to talk honestly about what's the actual situation for the villagers? It's the only thing that can bring the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1575	This has been an interesting debate, but I have not experienced him as particularly upbuilding. The ability and willingness to take a look and look forward has not been striking in the debate. The debate has been quite marked by strong fronts, especially between the Government Party and the Right and the Progress Party. What has been striking is that the government has repeatedly pointed out that most of the difficulties have been caused by the previous government. There has been a habit of quite a number of government councils in this government — probably an illustration of the poorness of the government also in the field of agricultural policy. I would like to stress that for the Christian People's Party it is important to try to help the agricultural industry have good conditions that provide the basis for optimism and for the future. When it comes to both optimism and the threat of the future, there are issues of income development in line with other occupational groups, but there are also issues of welfare schemes that are good and adapted to modern times and families. Then I got a question from the representative Sundsbø, who did not fully understand why we were warning against an excessive increase in the target prices. I'll try to repeat this – if my pedagogic skills are good enough, it'll say test. The point is that if you put too much on the target prices and not on the transfers, the price to the consumer is one thing – most Norwegian users might be able to do it, but we have groups, among other things. Toddler families who may have problems. What I stressed in my article is that those who have the biggest problem are the food industry. Putting too much on prices, our food industry will have major problems, and the risk of flagging and decommissioning is so absolute. We need our food industry – because this is the emphasis that one should aim in the future at giving more to transfers, precisely to avoid shutting down/flagging our food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1586	The representative of Asmyhr is clear, that's good. Market liberalist is an honorary sign. Criticism by the rapporteurs of the Progress Party runs counter to the organisational culture of the Progress Party when they publicly criticise the policy of the Progress Party. Some people may recognize themselves. This is a top-up, and the continuation is going to be exciting. The representative Sponheim is dissatisfied, but Sponheim: You get your own party's vision. The left will weaken import protection, drive the WTO ahead, and they know that within the WTO there is national freedom of action if it is political will. The center party agrees with you that there is a change in the countryside – yes, we have to think differently, but we have to think in the long term. The centre game agrees with you that traditional usage needs to be changed. What you call – I'm sorry, President – the representative Sponheim calls traditional use, is a habit that has a short historical period in Norway, represented by ideology from the 1955 Norwegian high school of agriculture. There is a need for new thinking, and I am pleased with the support that has been given, but we must have some fixed points in terms of innovation. Professor Normann Angesland at the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås is for import protection, the whole premise of a national policy. In terms of innovation, we need to be clear about what agriculture is. Agriculture may be land use, and there is solar recovery. The first bid is that in Norway we use the land, not least grass and land. The energy input must be a supplement. The photosynthesis is the base. That's what creates activity, and that's what to those degrees is environmentally friendly. That's what's one of the big things about the climate challenge. We need to have a variety of agriculture that stimulates the exploitation of all the property of agriculture. We have to have full time and part time, and we have to have long-term. Family farms have a great deal of energy through their long-term sustainability. It is completely sovereign in agricultural terms in relation to state ownership or shareholdership, but we have to be positive in terms of conversion. We need to be able to present Norwegian agriculture in such a way that it can compete for labour and youth. Then we have to have profitability for forward-looking operations. We need to discuss what is sustainable economically. We must have a robust economy, and a robust economy must be an economy that reduces dependence on the state budget and that reduces the importance of banks' borrowing rates for the final economic result. We have the means. There are great opportunities for simplification, but politicians must be clear and say what they want. It requires both producers and consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1597	I am glad we have the representative of Lundtegen in this debate, because then also a word of truth comes from the government side, and that is necessary. I think Lundtigen cleans well. Firstly, family farming and family ownership are a kind of collective term for what is not the state ownership of Norwegian gardening. I think that's very good, because we all live in families in different ways, whether we're involved in a co-operation that's a mile further away, go with the wife of the poultry every day, or we travel on pay every day with the wife, but come back and take the feather in the evening, in the spare time. Fortunately, that's the way it is. I think it was a good clearing, and it also put the Council's view on family farming in a special light. The left is for import protection. We are to weaken import protection – to the extent that we are – just as much as what the Government is. In order to obtain a WTO agreement that Norway needs, and which the poor world needs, it is necessary to grant concessions. We have supported the Government's concessions, which are willing to weaken import protection in terms of reductions, in the context of a future WTO agreement. We've pointed out that if we get started in some areas now, the meeting with the new reality might get softer than it would be otherwise. For example, in the case of the milk currently going to subsidised Jarlsbergost sent to the United States, Tine may have the necessary work to find other uses for that milk. It is not the winding-up of 3000 farms, as Gullvåg's representative claims in his lack of knowledge here today, but it is thus milk produced from a certain number of farms, 2000 to 3000, which then have to be used for a different purpose. It's about getting started and not waiting. Then I also agree with the historical analysis of family farming, in the sense that a family lives on a single production, for example. 12, 15, 16 cows, or what's going to be in the head of the people of the Council of State. It's a quite new invention in Norwegian agriculture. Traditionally, it has been a multi-syslery, where traditional gardening operates, other activities besides, and in some cases, quite robust gardening. I mean that's what we need to get more back to. I just want to point out that a survey a few years ago showed that Norwegian horticulture today, other than traditional agriculture, is already being carried out perhaps as much as 20,000 years ago. There is a colourful community of nutrition on Norwegian gardening already today. It's been tricked forward, so to speak, without the attention of agricultural policy, simply because people adapt, people understand what the future is, and they rate in the right way. If we had made this a policy, in addition to and in addition to the traditional bet, we could really be able to get into a business development and a future around Norwegian gardening that would be significant. The speakers of the Central Party in this debate today have marginalised this untraditional effort. That's what you can do next,' said the committee's chairman, only we have the traditional 12–15 cows and the membership of the Centre Party and the green hat from the Joint Purchase on our head.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1613	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1616	Family ownership has a unique advantage. Statistiques are completely uninteresting in Norway. What, on the other hand, the representative Sponheim is an active member of is the limited liability of the shareholder, the short-term interest in the share ownership. The representative Sponheim introduced it and treated it in the same way. It was a big mistake. The representative Sponheim is talking about a robust agriculture. No farm use is less robust than what the representative Sponheim talks about most, because they used to have the biggest debt and are most dependent on high prices from the market, which will go down dramatically when the representative Sponheim is festering a systematic erosion of import protection in this setting. In other words, traditional agriculture – there is nothing to say that we have a standard for what is agricultural in the future. I said diversity and versatility are what is needed. The use of the advantages of the individual property and the advantages of the professionals shall be highlighted. It's not the A4 we're talking about, but it's something new, and it's probably to preserve part of the tradition that we had before some agricultural economists got too much power over agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1625	The representative Lars Sponheim has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1628	I do not know if that is what I registered, that the representative Lundtigen is ashamed to be an agricultural economist. I'm not doing that. I think it's all right to know what you're talking about, and you could turn on the calculator a little bit at the same time you have a political perspective on what you're doing. It is the private, personal ownership, whether within the framework of a family or individuals, which is crucial for agriculture, and there must be a diversity of solutions. In this diversity, it is also open to limited liability companies, such as: as operating companies, not to own properties, but to operate, in order to produce the modern flexibility, the multi-ethnicism, for which many of us have fought. Then I would like to stress that no matter how many times the representative from the government parties or Lundtigen had to claim it, there is no weakening of the import protection that lies here from the left. On the contrary, it is about upgrading agriculture to withstand the deterioration of import protection already offered by the Government to the WTO. It's going to be necessary to get started on that work very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1637	It is not on purpose to prolong the debate. It'll probably be late enough tonight. But as I'm not going to vote, I think it's okay to spend some time in the debate itself. The representative, Sigrun Eng, was involved in the predatory problem here earlier and said to focus on it in the Nordic Council. I'm sure the predators who roam around in the sheep flocks will shudder with fear when they hear that the Nordic Council will look at this. I have been in the Nordic Council for eight years, and I must say that it is not the most effective and targeted Council that I have experienced. Of course the predators have their place, but the predatory policy that is being pursued is the Storting that has adopted. So it is the Government and the Storing that are to adopt a new predatory policy, if any. That's not happening. That means that the predatory thing that happens around the country, which affects Norwegian farmers, is going to continue. There the government has no will to do anything. The centre party has laid its ground for the predatory policy that they themselves oppose – at least they were against it in the past. Then it has been commented that some rapporteur candidates from the Progress Party have opposed the Party's agricultural policy. To say that it probably experiences all parties of a certain size, that there are people who disagree with the policy being pursued. A week ago we had a debate on the structural message, and then there was no lack of warnings from the red-green politicians around Norway against the policy of the Government. Even several unanimous municipal government decisions warned against structuring boats below 15 meters. So I think you should be a little bit careful about criticizing the Progress Party hard in that particular area. Then it's like a party has adopted a party program. We have a duty to follow the voters who have voted for us. We also do so in this case. Then there will be a new debate on the party programme itself. What is gratifying in this debate is the position of the Left. That the Left has gradually approached the Advance Party, we seem to be happy. It came out both through what Leif Helge Kongshaug said today in the pulpit, and what he referred to in the nation, and also through the posts of the representative Sponheim here today. We like it that it looks like there can be a collection on the non-socialist side of designing a new and better and more forward-looking agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1650	The representative Steinar Gullvåg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1653	I would like to point out briefly that pompousness can never cover the fact that the removal of export subsidies for cheese production corresponds to the removal of 3 000 farms. Otherwise, I have noticed – at the latest in the last post – that there are not only journalists reading Left's comments incorrectly, there are several of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1661	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See pages 3711 and 3712]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1679	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3713]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1697	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3713]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1715	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3714]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1731	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1740	The Economic and Social Committee has examined Document No. 8:49 for 2006-2007, promoted by several deposit representatives from the Right. The Committee has failed to reach an agreed position on the proposal and will therefore not be adopted. The government parties stand together to reject the proposal and are supported by the Left and Christian People's Party, but these parties have their own comments in the vote. The Progress Party and the Right are united in recommending the views expressed in the proposal and in promoting a common proposal that the Storting should ask the Government to wind up the system whereby the State Agriculture Administration has the opportunity to raise objections to municipal land plans under the Planning and Building Act in the cases where the State has objected to the use of the objection, and the County Agriculture Board does not promote objection. I expect the different fractions that stand together in the setting to explain their specificities in their own articles. I shall now present the views of the members of the Committee on the Progress Party on the matter. For the Progress Party, this issue raises a number of democratic issues. In land-related matters, a very thorough treatment process in the municipalities is in the process of going over a long period of time, involving the entire municipality through several consultation rounds and public debates. The local authorities would like to have more debates on the matter before final decisions are taken locally. As is known to Stortinget, the local government is democratically elected bodies in line with the rule of law and order. The municipal council members have a local anchoring and have been elected with a requirement that they reside in the municipality. They also have a local commitment to their political function. This is why the Progress Party believes that local politicians in the local processes are best placed to make decisions on land issues. Local elected representatives are responsible to their own inhabitants, and land policy is a very important local policy instrument to contribute to business development or housing. When the Government wants stronger government governance with land policy, it can only be because it has distrusted the locally elected local government and county councils. It's a paradox that the Center Party is behind this desire for tightening up, all the time the party often emphasizes democracy as important. Depriving local politicians of one of their most important instruments of local policy is hostile to democracy. The County Agricultural Boards also represent a popular level by the appointment of the representatives by the county councils. It is usually also the county policies that are members of the County Agricultural Board. The fact that the Government then finds it absolutely right that the county council, which is only a government official, may appeal the decision of the county agricultural board to another government body, the State Agriculture Administration, is, in the opinion of the Progress Party, a hair-dressing opinion. It expresses anything but a democratic attitude and shows some of the state's attitude towards local populace: they're good to have as long as they do what Uncle State wants. On top of this, the Government seems perfectly right to override the decisions taken by the County Agriculture Board and raise objections to legally adopted decisions. This is a totally unacceptable attitude, and my experience as a former member of a state agricultural government is that this is the attitude towards representatives from the vast majority of parties, including the current government parties. All parties agree that it is important to take good care of cultivated land, but in some cases other important societal considerations need to be addressed, often in matters relating to local business development, housing development and the strengthening of centre functions. But I think it is important that the views expressed by the government parties in this position become clear when we are now faced with a local election how many will promote the importance of the decisions taken locally. It's particularly interesting to hear what the leaders of the Centre will say in the forthcoming debates on this topic. The parties engaged in local democracy, popular rule and closeness between voters and politicians are wise to vote for the Progress Party and the Right's proposal in this matter. By voting for the vote, you lose all credibility in local government issues. In doing so, I will address the proposal made by the Party of Advances and the Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1766	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1769	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for his excellent work on this matter. This is an important and fundamental matter for many municipalities. It is about local democracy and how much local politicians and local authorities should control their own municipality. Right is concerned with local democracy and local self-government. Therefore, the Right is strongly critical of the message sent on 21 February 2006 by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of the Environment that the State Agriculture Administration is given the opportunity to raise objections to municipal land plans under the Planning and Building Act in cases where the State has decided otherwise on the use of the objection and the County Agriculture Board. The right of objection granted by the State Agriculture Administration in decisions taken by the County Agriculture Board is, in reality, a total overrun of the local political judgements in land matters. This means that the County Agriculture Council, with its local political judgement, will be reduced in such cases from being a decision-making authority, as it used to be, to becoming a consultative body. In my opinion, this is a serious interference in the local People's Government. The composition of state agricultural governments is an expression of popular will through elections. The County Agricultural Boards consist of locally elected members appointed by the county councils. Many of the members of the County Agriculture Boards are also members of the county. In this way, the current perception will arise locally in the management of local knowledge-required issues by County Agriculture Boards, which are important in cases where local discretion is exercised. In the case of the State's agricultural administration, it cannot be claimed that they have the same local knowledge or the same local anchoring. I also believe that there is a completely wrong signal sent out to the local population, to local people and to the municipalities, when government agencies are given broad powers to override decisions anchored in several local elected bodies. This can, in the worst case, contribute to people no longer wanting to engage in local and county political work. This frustration is very real. This is a frustration we experience in many municipalities that are being overrun by the state in land issues. Depriving country agricultural governments of this role is an expression of the government’s view that local politicians are unable to take care of their own administrative interests. I believe this is an expression of a rather demeaning attitude towards the People's Government. It is even more discouraging to claim that bureaucrats in the county are better able to discharge this responsibility. The county, which was initially a preparatory and advocating authority, has in fact also obtained a veto right at the expense of local democracy. This right of veto, which has now been granted to the State Agriculture Administration, has been used in a diligent manner. Of the 13 cases received last year by the State Agriculture Administration, ten ended with objections from the State. This shows that the new regime of the Government, with the right of objection to the State's agricultural administration, has major consequences at the expense of local democracy. I also think that is an excessive fear from the majority in the position in relation to soil protection. Figures from the Statistical Centre show that the area being redisposed has fallen from 2002 to 2005. If we look at the statistics on this for a longer period of time, we see a trend break from 2002 to 2005, where re-disposal especially of cultivated land is falling sharply. If you look at the statistics, the re-disposal rate in 2002 is approx. 15 000 days, in 2005 it is about 15 000 days. half of it, about half of it. Seven hundred days. It shows that local politicians act very responsibly on these kinds of issues. This, I think, makes the rationale for the majority's position on this matter seem quite poorly anchored in reality around the community sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1788	First of all, I would like to express both support for and sympathy for the principle that the Right Party and the Advance Party make themselves advocates in this matter, that one should respect local political judgement. But as both the Right Party and the Progress Party are familiar with other issues, there may sometimes be several principles that need to be weighed up against each other when finding practical solutions. For example, the party of progress is: a strong spokesman for more use of ear marking and less local freedom when it comes to how the tartars are to be designed. The last of this week, both the Progress Party and the Right, with different political solutions, have spoken hotly in this Chamber to reduce local politicians' right to weigh up the quality of the municipal service supply against the right to print property tax. Of course, I'm not going to go into those debates right now. The point is that all parties have to make a balance between several considerations that can, in isolation, point in different directions when it comes to finding practical policy solutions. In my opinion, it would be better to make clear that such considerations are being made, rather than changing the principle of reasoning as appropriate in the individual case. For the Christian People's Party, in this case there is a balance between local or regional politics and the importance of implementing national targets for the conservation of cultivated land, to which a broad majority in the Stortinget has given its support. What becomes particularly problematic about the State's agricultural management's right to warn of reprieves is that it will systematically weaken soil protection for the benefit of development interests. Maybe this is an important part of the intention of being presented – what do I know? A decision to decline to rebuild cultivated land can be reversed. In practice, it is not possible to adopt a decision on degradation. It is irreversible over many electoral periods. This speaks, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, that there should be a purely agricultural professional body to evaluate local plans against national and democratic objectives and, if necessary, warn against contradictions. Then final decisions are made according to the processes laid down in the Planning and Building Act. The challenge today is not that soil protection is too strong. The challenge is, in fact, to keep the cropland we have, especially in the vicinity of cities and other major arc concentrations. Therefore we believe that the presented from the Right goes in the wrong direction, and therefore we in the Christian People's Party cannot support this either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1809	Most of the objections raised in the field of agriculture concern matters of plan and regulation which interfere with valuable agricultural land. It's right to say that our most valuable agricultural land is being built down at an alarming rate. It is a national target to halve the annual loss of such areas by 2010. This is a goal to which the Storting has joined, in conjunction with St. pp. No 1 from 2004 to 2005 by the Government of Bondevik II. The majority fully agree with this objective. It is necessary to strengthen soil protection and neither the proposers nor the case rapporteur seem to be at all concerned. What is being presented today by the proposers is a de minimis approach to this issue. There are difficult soil protection issues in many municipalities. The right of objection is the last option and, fortunately, it does not have to be used so often. But we're concerned that the right of objection is the only way the authorities can intervene and protect cultivated land in the field of planning. For the Central Party and the majority, it is not appropriate to weaken this tool. On the contrary, the Government has strengthened the right of objection, when it gave the State Agriculture Administration the objection authority in cases under the Planning and Building Act where the State has suspended the use of the objection, but where the County Agriculture Board does not follow up the recommendation. The majority support this and reject the proposals made by the Right-wing Representatives. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has set up a committee to assess existing instruments in this area, and propose measures to strengthen the approach of the right-wing proposers to weaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1822	What the last two representatives have in mind will receive the full support of the Left in this matter. It is not a sustainable and good situation that of the relatively small area cultivated land we have here to land – 2-3 pst. of the land area — is increasingly being built up, and at an increasing pace. The decline from 2005 to 2006 has been estimated by the Central Statistical Office to be about 10 pst. The left is concerned about this trend. We have national targets for reducing agricultural land degradation — and it is important in this area that we set ourselves up to assess whether local land plans are in fundamental conflict with national agricultural policy objectives. The reduction of cultivated land is, in practice, irreversible. Then, of course, one can discuss local government and state overgovernment in this context, but sometimes principles stand up against each other, as has been said in the past. In this case, it is important for the Left to have an opportunity to intervene when decisions are taken across national objectives. Otherwise, I would also like to show that the regional message has been addressed recently in Stortinget. I do not remember that there was any suggestion to deprive the State's agricultural administration of the right we are discussing today. I also refer to the comment of the Left and Christian People's Party, and support it with this majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1837	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3714]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1855	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3714]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1873	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3714]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1889	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1898	The discussions on the social security settlement of the year between the Government and the organisations were held on 21 and 22 May this year. The government and the organisations agreed to increase the basic amount of the population’s debt by NOK 3920 from 1 May this year. This means that the average basic amount increases by 5.38 pst. from 2006 to 2007. The organisations also requested a supplement of 0,25 pst. in addition to the Government's estimate of wage growth to be earmarked for an increase in the special supplement for the minimum pensioners. They also promoted the requirement for an increase in a supplementary pension of 1 pension point from the current level of 3,30 to 4,30. The parties agreed on a protocol approach for minimum pensioners and young people. With this, I recommend the committee's recommendation. In the celebrations of the government parties, we have often heard that the elderly are a resource, that they are the people who have built the country and developed society, so that as a young person today, we can drive quickly where the elderly went ahead and broke the road. Unfortunately, such speeches are rarely followed up in action. Then all of a sudden you're in a completely different world. This year's social security settlement is probably proof of this. The government has been talking about combating poverty for almost two years. Yes, they have actually gone so far that they have stated that they must eliminate all poverty. But these are still going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be equal to something. 240 000 minimum pensioners and 60 000 disability pensioners below the EU poverty line. An increase in the income of minimum pensioners is more a moral question than an economic one. It is directly immoral, in the view of the Progress Party, to keep the revenues of our minimum pensioners so low that they have been assessed by the EU as being below the poverty line. Those that apply have, through a long life of long working days and great efforts, built up the welfare state of which we others today enjoy. I doubt that these community builders, who are now the smallest pensioners, would have expected the society they built up in pain and contentment to give them an old age in poverty. Many would probably say that I'm exaggerating, but unfortunately I don't. I have received several enquiries from the minimum pensioners who say they eat porridge three days a week, and that in winter to save electricity they must go fully dressed in their own apartment to keep the heat. They're doing this precisely because of the economy and to make the ends meet. Others cannot afford to extract prescribed medicines in the pharmacy or to go on vacation — that is, to be a natural part of our social and cultural life. I have also met the minimum pensioners who say that they simply cannot go to a delivery company for children and grandchildren, precisely because they cannot afford to bring gifts. The Progress Party is concerned that the country’s minimum pensioners should have the opportunity to live a decent life. They will have the opportunity to take care of their health, to receive treatment and medicines in line with other citizens in this country. We simply do not accept that the minimum pensioners should have a life base that is below the EU's poverty line. Therefore, the Progress Party promotes concrete proposals to raise the minimum pension to 2G in the context of the year’s social security settlement. This would have meant that almost 300,000 minimum pensioners and disability pensioners would have crossed the EU poverty line. A lone minimum pensioner would have increased his income by NOK 20 836 per year with this proposal. year, from today's NOK 112 788 to NOK 133 624. For couples who are both the minimum pensioners, the pension would have increased a total of 47 172 kroner to 253 884 kroner per week. years. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to increase the supplementary pension for young people from the current level of 3.30 pension points to 4.30 pension points – i.e. what organisations require. The Progress Party also proposes removing any abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners by 2009. The government parties could today have supported the proposals of the Progress Party and thus provided a majority in this Chamber to lift about 300,000 women and men out of poverty. But unfortunately, the government parties have chosen to leave them poor and rather rely on party speakers. With this I address the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1928	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1931	Often in debates in Stortinget, co-representatives give commendation to the case rapporteur for tidy work and tidy presentation. Unfortunately, it is not possible to do so in this case, for the case rapporteur, as we have just heard, talked about something quite different from the case today. Social security is a unique system, a system of solidarity, where we set each other up in different stages of life. But the fear of the people has some weaknesses. That's why the population wants to change it. We want to clean up some unfairness, especially with regard to coordination and shortening rules. The Progress Party does not want to be involved in this cleanup, all the time they have spent outside the new pension reform. When the case manager talks about so much that has nothing to do with today's case, I also had to comment on it initially. So until today the matter is about social security, settled for 2007. The size laid down in 2003 rules for the regulation of social security and pensions. These rules have been followed in the social security settlement of the year. The social security settlement of the year is record high. The basic amount of public confidence is increasing by 6.23 pst. The minimum lump sum is now NOK 119 820 a year, NOK 9 985 a month. The year’s social security regulation ensures a clear increase in purchasing power for social security and pensioners. The majority of the population is well satisfied with the social security settlement of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1940	The social security settlement has been negotiated and recommended by the parties within the framework laid down by the Stortinget. An annual salary increase of 5.38 p.m. That's good, but that's the dollars we live on, and $7,000 in income increase for a lone minimum pensioner is significantly less than what becomes most of the people after the year's settlement. In the Central Party we will therefore be particularly satisfied with the protocol the social security settlement parties have agreed on. In cooperation with the organisations, the State will identify developments in living conditions and income and assess possible actions for these groups as a basis for the ordinary budgetary procedure of the Government. It will be a useful and necessary work. It is now ten years since the Stortinget decided to step up the living conditions of the minimum pensioners by raising the special supplement. For those who have no more to live on than the minimum pension, it's urgent now. This year's settlement of NOK 7000 gives better percentage growth than for others, as I mentioned, but is nevertheless NOK 10000 less than the average wage increase is calculated for. The Progress Party promotes proposals that represent very large additional appropriations and also change the distribution profile of the social security scheme. An increase in the special supplement in order to ensure an increase in income for the minimum pensioners is undoubtedly an approach that needs to be considered. I look forward to the work that will now be done to monitor the evolution of living conditions among the minimum pensioners. We are not sure when the most difficult of the measures proposed by the Progress Party, such as removing the shortening of married and cohabiting pensioners. The fact is, there are lone minimum pensioners who get the worst out, at least in the analyses we've been prepared for the Center Party. They show that while married minimum pensioners have increased their income from 50 pst. of annual earnings of employees in 1990 to 63 pst. In 2004, single minimum pensioners have a much weaker increase: they still have only 35pst. of the annual income of employees. If the development of poverty is to be combated, we may have to go along with more targeted instruments than is the case with the minority proposal today. Then, from other considerations, one might think that today's curtailment rules are unreasonable. For the Centre Party, improving the living conditions of minimum pensioners is a high priority area. We therefore meet the work now under way, we are pleased that the Government has supported this, and it is important that, in the budgetary work ahead, we demonstrate the ability to follow up on proposals to improve the living conditions of the minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1955	Social security provision is of great importance to almost a quarter of the country's population, and thus one of the most important negotiations on income carried out this year. The left welcomes the protocol introduction of a review of the living conditions of minimum pensioners and young people. Pensions are their only income, and they have very limited opportunities for other income. Especially for young disabled people, it is problematic that they do not come into gainful employment and get the chance to invest in housing or participate in the material wealth development that most of us experience. One might wonder whether, in particular, young people with disabilities are born into poverty. As politicians, we need to find a solution to this. It is important to stress that the minimum pensioners are not a homogeneous group. Some minor pensioners in the districts have relatively good living conditions because they have acquired material values through their lives through housing and other means. But for part of the minimum pensioners, especially those living in urban areas, the situation is different. It is important to look at their living conditions and health status. It's on the basis that Left wants to increase the minimum pension to twice the base. That is why, in the Committee's position, we have put forward a separate proposal asking the Government to present an obliging plan for the minimum pension, up to twice the basic amount. We are promoting that proposal, because in the Left we believe that if we are to be able to solve the poverty problem, we must have measures that are targeting those who need it the most. We want to look at this during this ageing period, to get a raise for the elderly who currently live on the minimum pension. Finally, I support the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1964	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1967	That the Progress Party wants to take this opportunity to make the minimum pensioners as a group and their financial corps essentially not exactly a bomb. I think it's important to pay attention to what the representative at Skkelstad also said, that in this kind of case one should be careful to generalise. The minimum pensioners are not a homogeneous group. There are great variations among them, not least in relation to the housing costs you have, and the area of the country in which you live, because we know that there are significant differences in the cost of living, depending on how you live. There have been over time a number of allegations in the political debate related to this topic. In the proposition — and also in the setting — a table has been included showing that for the period 2001–2006, the minimum pensioners have had an increase in their pension of 22,8 p.p., while employees have had a wage development of 22,9 p.p. So with the year's settlement, you're going to get a little bit ahead of wage developments for the minimum pensioners. In this respect, at least the last seven to eight years have had a regulation that is fully in line with the objective and ambition set by the Stortinge for these social security schemes. In dealing with social security last year, we asked the Council of State on behalf of the Right Group, asking for an estimate of the costs associated with the additional proposals that the Progress Party then promoted, and also an assessment of the development of minimum pensioners in relation to economically active people. In response, and based on estimates from the Statistical Central Bureau and the Technical Calculation Committee, the Ministry stated that the average salary for a normal annual work for an active person in 2005 was 14.3 times higher than in 1967, when the population's unemployment rate was introduced, while the development of the minimum pension rate from 1967 to 2005 was 20 times higher. So there's a lot of ways to figure out, and I'm the first one to recognize that there's a lot of minimum pensioners who are in need, but the reasons for it are complex. Among other things, it is related to: together with the tax policy pursued by the majority of this Assembly, and it is also linked to the taxation of housing, both in relation to tax laws and to the property tax decisions of local government. There are some minimum pensioners who have really gotten dizzy. The main point is what is left to cover the cost of living after taxes and charges have been paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1978	There is no doubt that it is an important matter we are dealing with today. There's one thing that affects a lot of people. I'm not going to start muttering, I'm not going to go far back in history, but in the last growing-up period we actually, at least on two occasions, had quite powerful settlements in this hall related to social security. We also experienced in the last growing period the historical fact that the Storting chose to vote down the proposal for the social security settlement from the Government. The whole process of the previous ageing period led to the adoption of the decisions to which it refers today, i.e. we were given very clear guidelines on how to implement the social security system. I myself, as Vice-Chairman of the Social Committee, was, together with the then head of the Social Committee, John I. Alvheim, very actively involved in the design of those guidelines. So from the fall of 2005, history would have given me the honour to conduct social security negotiations in line with those guidelines. What has been very important to me and to the Government is fully complying with the guidelines that are there. Not least we've had to try it this year, because one of the reasons why the social security is so big this year is that we have a lag from last year. The guidelines, as they were formulated by the undersigned and Alvheim at the time of the previous period, were designed to ensure that we got caught up, and that a debate would end if it was to be paid, and how it would be calculated. We now have clear guidelines on this, and of course we will follow them until new guidelines are adopted in this Chamber. For me, it has been important to help us follow the guidelines, and I am of course glad that it helps us to get a good social security settlement, in line with the fact that there has been a good wage development. It's also the context that makes sure that we get a good social security settlement. Then I agree with those who, from this pulpit, take up the fact that among the minimum pensioners and among young people, and in particular among part of the pensioners with a small supplementary pension, there are people who have a difficult economic situation. And it can't be that we from the Government's side are beating our chests and saying that we are very satisfied with the economic situation of all the minimum pensioners, young disabled people and so people with a small supplementary pension. For this reason, it has not been difficult for organisations to join the Government in a protocol that is just about to analyse the situation better and, not least, the ability to come up with a menu of possible targeted actions to improve the financial situation of individuals. I believe that if we are really concerned about those who have the worst advice among the minimum pensioners, it is better to focus on measures other than a general increase in the special supplement. Because then we spend a lot of money, even to people who don't have bad advice in principle, don't have a difficult financial situation. So if we are primarily concerned with the minimum pensioners with a poor financial situation, we should take on the work of finding targeted measures that work especially towards them. I recognize that it doesn't have to be a very simple task, but it's obvious that the housing support system can be a very good tool in that way. It is also one of the reasons why we are now reviewing the housing aid scheme. In summary, I feel that we are following the guidelines, as the Stortinget has established them. I share the analysis that is moving towards the fact that there are still pensioners who have a demanding economic situation, and I share the analysis that we have a commitment to do something about it, but I do not agree that we are going to use the special supplement here today, nor am I convinced that the special supplement is the best way to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1995	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e1999	I am a little surprised at the statement the Council of State made in the daily newspaper today. He says, ‘There are very many minimum pensioners who do not have bad advice. A minimum pensioner who is married to a rich shipbroker, and who has never worked for a single day, has a very good minimum pension." In fact, with respect to reporting, I believe that the number of minimum pensioners who can't afford hot food every day, who can't afford to pick up drugs or go to the hairdresser, and who worry about the next power bill, is far greater than the number of minimum pensioners who are married to a rich shipbroker. We know that 80 pst. of the minimum pensioners are single women. The only way they can cope with a better income is, in fact, by increasing the special supplement, as the Progress Party suggests. Does the Council of State really mean, at a time when it looks like the nation will go with a surplus of NOK 338 billion, that we can't afford to spend SEK 2.5 billion to lift all these people out of the poverty problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2013	The proposals that the Progress Party is making today do not have a price tag of DKK 2.5 billion. The total annual impact of the proposals that the Progress Party is making today is over DKK 7 billion. In my world – I am aware that it is not Robert Eriksson’s world – it is that it is outside any budgetary context to propose proposals that have a total proceeds of more than DKK 7 billion on an annual basis, it requires a different treatment from that proposed by the Progress Party. It does.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2018	The Christian People's Party supports social security, but we are also committed to facilitating the combination of pensions and work, such as the main objectives of pension reform, welfare and senior education. The Christian People's Party understands that it may be difficult to implement this for those over 67 today, in parallel with the implementation of pension reform and other major welfare reforms, and has therefore accepted that the curtailment will only be removed from 2010 onwards. Now, however, the Prime Minister has told the Pensionist League that curtailment is a udder; it must be removed as soon as possible. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether this is how the Stortinget has been led to believe that there is no capacity to remove the abbreviation from the next year. Or is it maybe the Pensioner League that's been seduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2023	As I have understood the Prime Minister's statements, he wishes to express his intention to remove the abbreviation from 1 January 2010. But then I firmly believe that I have said clearly in this room that we also have that question to assess against the budgets we are going to prepare until 1 January 2010. I can neither promise nor rule out that the Government will promote this proposal as part of the budget before 1 January 2010. But from 1 January 2010, the system will be converted so that we do not get any shortening between labour income and pension income.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2028	The majority, including the Left, refer to the protocol input, which has also been discussed by the Council of State in the past. I believe housing support is more targeted. However, in the context of the evaluation that will take place, one of the instruments might be similar to the one contained in the Left's proposal for a stepping up plan. When I and the Council of State agree that minimum pensioners are not at all a homogeneous group, as I have said before, it may well be one of the instruments. Is that what the Council of State sees?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2033	I do not need now to start the exclusion of measures. We take the protocol input into the social security agreement very seriously, because, as I said in my main post, I recognize that there are challenges in this field. That is why we need a menu of proposals that we can assess the impact and costs of, both in the budget work now in the autumn and later. We're going to do this job in a proper and thorough way in cooperation with the organisations. And there's a lot of new stuff here: we've gotten a few shots so far, but we haven't been sitting in a forum where we've worked together to identify possible instruments for those groups that we're busy helping.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2040	The centre party Dagfinn Sundsbø so very correctly and wisely that pensioners live, not on percentages, but on crowns. There's a lot of the percentage that is so that even if you have a good percentage increase, the minimum pensioners' crowns are going to be a lot, a lot less, as Sundsbø pointed out, than it is for those who are in gainful employment, who have much higher income. I wonder if the Council of State agrees that it is the minimum pensioners who have to pay their bills with. Nor can you pay the bills with protocol inputs, as you would imagine, Mr President. Health claim was considered when he referred to the protocol delivery in the social security scheme. Is there any other way to strengthen the economy of the minimum pensioners than to actually increase the minimum pension? And is there any other way to increase the minimum pension than to increase the special supplement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2045	The minimum pensioners, like everyone else, live on dollars. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the Storting today adopts a social security settlement that provides a clear real wage improvement for the pensioners, also for the minimum pensioners. After that, the minimum pensioners will get more dollars in the wallet to pay bills, and they will get more growth in the number of dollars than in the amount of bills. So this is a good settlement that also strengthens real pay to the minimum pensioners. There are other ways to donate dollars in the money book to minimum pensioners than to increase the special supplement, for example. raising the housing. There is no label on this money, so if the money comes in the form of increased housing support, it will give the same positive effect in the money book to a minimum pensioner as if you could get it via the special supplement in the pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2052	It's quite true, as the Council of State says, but if you want to improve the minimum pensions for all the minimum pensioners, you can't use the housing allowance, because I'm fully aware that not everyone has housing support, for different reasons. The Council of State also remembers that in the social security scheme, the organisations actually asked for an extra pot of 0.25 pst., which was to be used to increase the special supplement. That's exactly what the Progress Party today is proposing, so we're proposing up to 2 G, and we're granting the funds. We have also proposed another thing that the organisations were concerned about. Can the Council of State go further in promising the minimum pensioners and organisations that the two requirements relating to young people who are disabled and who are related to the minimum pension will be met in the draft budget for 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2057	In my world – and I'm a little in doubt if it's Carl I. Hagen's world – we have a framework to deal with. And if I want to strengthen the situation of the least-paid pensioners, it would be an advantage to use limited resources more targeted than just raising the special supplement for everyone, because then we'll also spend a considerable amount of money on pensioners, minimum-pensioners, who don't have bad advice. So if the concern is the pensioners with the worst advice, you're going to get more money back by using them more focused than by raising the special supplement. That is the track we are now following, in agreement with the pensioners' organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2064	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2069	I'm a little surprised by the answers that the Council of State gives. He says he's concerned about improving the situation of the smallest pensioners who can't afford it. As I tried to say in the line, 80 pst. of today’s smallest pensioners are lone women living well below the poverty line of the EU. However, it is clear that the Council of State feels it is right that we should have as many thousands of people living below the poverty line as the European Union has set. The supplement with which the Government comes, which is adopted in Stortinget today, is 19 kroner – 19 kroner for a minimum pensioner who already cannot afford to go and buy hot food every day. That is to say, the minimum pensioner can't afford to go to Rimi and buy the cheapest Fjordland product, which is fish soup, for the $19. It's the supplement that comes from the Government, and it's going to help reduce poverty. I think this in many ways is very, very disappointing. And then to Sundsbø, who says in his post that he is also concerned with the smallest pensioners who have it difficult. But the Progress Party does nothing about it, he says, and indicates that we are proposing to remove the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. Yes, we propose to remove the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners, but then also Sundsbø should read the setting, because we propose to increase the special supplement for all minimum pensioners, which actually means that the minimum pensioners who have the most difficulty are raised above the poverty line and can have a much more worthwhile everyday life and a better economic situation. They can actually have hot food every day, they can afford to go to the hairdresser, and they can afford to go on birthday to their children and grandchildren. But it's clear that the majority in this room does not care about the generation that has built this country, having such a everyday life. With respect to reporting, I'm very disappointed in those attitudes. I'm young today, I'm a youth who can walk around and mesmerize me in the welfare society that that generation has built up. But what do we give them back? Well, we give them, as I said in my main post, a life and an old age in poverty. I think this is directly immoral by the majority of the population, and I should have liked to have seen that the majority in this room had supported our proposal. However, there is still a desire to use specific schemes and support schemes to ensure that pensioners still have to come to the State with the help of a lua in order to sustain their lives in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2076	It has been stated in the debate that pensioners live, not on percentages, but on dollars. That's what I think the pensioners have in common with most people. From that point of view, I was a little curious about the proposals of the Progress Party, because it is clear that the intention is the best. I was a little curious about how much this actually cost, and how they treated it budgetally. In this case, it is proposed that from 1 May will increase the cost of NOK 4 132 000. On the impact of the year, as the Council of State says, it's probably about 7 billion kroner, or a little over the top. Then I was a little curious about how the Progress Party had dealt with this issue in its revised national budget, and there I have not found that they have put a single penny into increasing pensions. But what about the 2007 alternative budget of the Progress Party? Well, there they had correctly added something into increased pensions, together about. 2 billion kroner – that is just 2 billion kroner of an increase that they are now proposing for 7 billion kroner. So they don't cover more than 30 pst with their alternative proposals. the costs of their own proposals. 70 pst. Of this increase, there is no budgetary coverage, nor is there a proposal for appropriations, and I think it becomes a bit special with the spectacle we see here now, where one tries to present oneself as the best friend of the minimum pensioners, when one does not even have the ability in one's own government budget proposals to propose increases that could finance this. For the minimum pensioners, neither can they live on demonstration proposals in Stortinget without budgetary coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2083	What I believe we agree on is that among the minimum pensioners, there are groups belonging to the poorest in this country, which it is important to put in place targeted measures in order to achieve our goal of eradicating poverty. And that's what we want. So the question is whether that is what the Advance Party is after in its proposal. They say that's what they're after, on the one hand. On the other hand, they make a rapid increase of DKK 7 billion in costs, probably much more than is necessary to increase the opportunities for the poorest to rise to a level of income at least at the EU poverty line. You don't decide what you really want. It is absolutely right that the Progress Party believes it is right to spend 7 billion DKK in overtime – to say it that way – for which there is no coverage in any of these other budgets, to increase pensions, but they must not at the same time say that this is the same as that each of them is living below the poverty line they define today. This is not the case at all, and it is therefore good that the government has got the organisations involved in a protocol delivery, where it goes through, obtains evidence of this, and is willing to put in place targeted measures to achieve what you want. That was my point, and that should be the main thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2092	First Martin Engeset. As far as I can see, the Progress Party has done exactly the same thing as the majority of the Committee. We have put forward proposals with the appropriations required by our proposal, and the same has been done with regard to the effects of the increase in the basic amount by the majority. None of these, as far as I know, are involved in the consideration of the revised national budget, neither the majority nor the minority, in line with what is common practice. Then I have to be allowed to say that I hope that most representatives will be correct when we get into the election campaign. I've seen a couple of places left has claimed that they have suggested raising the minimum pension to 2 G. So it is only the Progress Party that has proposals for today. Asking the Government in a proposal to submit a plan of escalation is quite different, it is just asking the Government to consider something in relation to the budgets for the harvest. It has no consequences. So I hope that the Left will not go around and say that they have suggested raising the minimum pension to 2 G – if they do not vote for the proposals of the Progress Party today. Because today it's for treatment. That's the same thing when you've talked about removing the curtailment of the pension for pensioners who are 67 years old and who earn more than 2 G. There the Prime Minister has probably announced that this will be done in 2010. And that I respect is the Labour Party's attitude, that the abbreviation is going to do something about in a few years' time. Some other parties have claimed that they would like to do it earlier. They shouldn't go around saying that either. To get rid of that abbreviation is a law. No change is made by saying ‘The Government asks’ and making proposals that the Government is almost free to assess whether it will follow or not. There is a change in the law of popular protection that must be made to remove that abbreviation for the group between 67 and 70 years, and it was only the Progress Party that voted for the necessary legislative change when it was dealt with in Odelstinget yesterday. All other parties, who have also presented their position in the public debate as if they wish to do so immediately – among others. Right – so voted against making the necessary legislative change that removed the curtailment. So I hope that we will be saved for those who are trying to claim that they stand for something, when they have just voted against those things in the Storting – yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2103	Martin Engeset has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2106	The last post made it necessary. With regard to the abbreviation for the 67-70-year-olds group, the Right has submitted proposals on a number of occasions and will address the matter during tomorrow’s discussion of the revised national budget. But unlike the Progress Party, we are, in fact, quite concerned that the legislative changes that are being decided upon should also have a real economic coverage. What the representative Hagen tried to think people had coverage for the billions they put in the committee's position was a very bad attempt. So there's not one additional penny in the revised national budget of the Progress Party for the billion increases they're now proposing in pensions. In their alternative state budget in December 2006, they have spent only DKK 2 billion on increased pensions, while here they are proposing an increase of DKK 7 billion. So the pensioners would probably have been terribly disappointed if they had first received a decision that they later discovered that there was no money for. So this is leading people behind the light.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2113	The appropriations for the purposes we are now discussing are estimates. This means that there are legislative changes and changes in rates that govern the appropriations. We have done exactly the same thing as the Government in terms of the revised national budget. We have today proposed to grant the money. When you set up a government budget at the end of the year, what happens then is the result, based on what has happened, and there are changes in terms of adopted budgets and the changes in the balance you make in the harvest, often at NOK 10 billion. I would also like to say to Martin Engeset: the right says that they have suggested removing the abbreviation. The technical way to do this is to amend the People's Security Act, and then the result will automatically affect the estimates by reducing the curtailment. In fact, it could also be greater revenue to the public if we remove the curtailment, because there's probably a part now that would have worked a lot more and thus paid more into social security contributions and taxes, if they worked after they got a pension of 67 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3714]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2153	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2172	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2190	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2208	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2227	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2245	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2264	No one has asked for the floor. We have now come to case No. 17. [[See page 3718]] At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that case No. 23 is dealt with together with case No. 17. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2297	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed to give rise to a sequence change of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of the lots and five lines, with replies from members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested by those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time, that they have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2310	We are faced with a number of issues to be addressed by the Transport and Communications Committee. Let's start with St.prp. No 68 for 2006-2007, dealing with a number of issues such as aviation, road, rail – and some specific transport actions. I'll try to comment on the individual areas with a few words, but in some areas I have to use a little more. With regard to aviation safety, the Committee points out that an overall review of aviation safety has been important and necessary, in particular in relation to the conversion processes that have taken place. What the Committee disagrees on is who is, if necessary, the appropriate body to follow up the recommendations made by the State Emergency Commission. The disagreement is simply whether it is the Department or the Air Safety Authority that should have done this job. The minority, which consists of the Progress Party, has much greater confidence in the supervision, which should have done that job – but we are fully aware that there is no complete stability if the supervision had done that job as well. Furthermore, we are going to deal with the extension of toll collection to finance Nidelv Bru in Trondheim. There are no unknown issues for the Committee, whether there are new toll projects or the extension of existing projects. The composition of the committee is no surprise either. There is a large majority here who are willing to continue the toll system, while there is a minority, consisting of the Progress Party, which is not particularly pleased with this development. What we agree on, of course, is that Nidelv Bru is also a very important project and a very important term when it comes to doing something about the main road network in Trondheim. I record that the majority, all except the Progress Party, also refer to the local initiative – and I will come back to the local initiative later in my speech. I also record that the majority actually boasts the counties and three municipalities for this initiative. My comment from the Progress Party is that in the case of a project as important as Nidelv Bru in Trondheim, the majority in the Committee will take responsibility. Further to a similar case — extension of the tolling scheme in Kristiansand. The difference is that there is a desire for an extension of the existing tolling system, for the second time, to finance walking and cycling routes. My question is whether this is not a development that will gradually be seen more and more, as there are also plans for a change in the law. There is talk of partial toll financing, but the reality is that the public is helping with 2 million. NOK 69 million. So I guess that's just partial public funding. The majority, all except the Progress Party, believe that this will be positive for the drivers, public health and climate, and that is why tolls will be used. The party of progress means exactly the same thing. In fact, we believe that we will get exactly the same positive results for the drivers, public health, the climate, security, etc. whether the infrastructure managers took responsibility. The Swinesund link: there is a little more consensus in the committee. It is registered that there have been very high collection costs, and something has been done about it. The Committee agrees, but the opposition points out that the toll company of the country actually operates more expensive than others. The comment of the Progress Party is that despite the fact that the collection costs are reduced, it is a real cost increase for the drivers. E39 Stangeland-Sandved and Renndalen-Baurset: The Committee also agrees here that it is important to put in place new infrastructure. Here I record that the majority, all except the Advance Party, for the first time suggests a rush-time charge. The Progress Party comments in a slightly ironic way that it has become almost a matter of course that local communities have to forge for a poor state, and it is also ironic to me that the majority sees it as reasonable that those who scout also take the interest and the price increase for a poor state. The Haukeli tunnels: Here the majority joins the Government's proposal for height improvement and is satisfied with the government's handling and proposals. However, the progress party is no longer satisfied, but there is a concrete impact on the management of the Road Administration. Here, the Vegvessen has gone far beyond the decisions and leadership of the Storting through two rounds. That's why the Progress Party, in order to set an example and perhaps get things straight, wants the Riksrevision to come in and look at that kind of thing. Rv. 2 Klöfta–Nybakk: Here is a proposal to increase toll rates, because it is agreed that the project must be completed and completed, and that the whole route will be extended to four-field roads. Here, too, the majority writes that it is a partial toll financing. I hope that parts of the majority during the debate will tell me what a partial toll financing is, when the rule is toll financing. What we are talking about here is a partial state co-financing. I also record that the Progress Party is being attacked with the claim that we do not have coverage for our proposals. With regard to our proposal on this matter, it simply means that the money will come in 2008. We could, of course, propose an additional allocation right now, but in relation to the progress of the project, it is okay that the money comes in 2008. The fact that the majority of the Committee has already established in a way that the Progress Party does not cover this project in 2008 is probably a little early. It remains to be seen. We agree that direct development to the four-field road will lead to lower costs, and that the project will, of course, increase safety and accessibility. I almost want to comment on the government's path, but I may come back a little later. Rv. 150 Ulven Splitten-Sinsen: The Committee points out what has been bad about progress. I record that a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, in this case is happy – and it's very good when we're about to have a summer vacation – that the Government has found a solution. It's well to take it seriously that it's the government that has found a solution to this problem. The Progress Party, together with the Right, believes that progress in and the handling of this matter is unfortunate and that the draft plan available is not an optimal solution for future traffic challenges. Oslopack 3: Many billions will be used. We could have discussed for a long time Oslopakset 3, but I note that the Progress Party stands alone in this case, and that it will go its way, until the Stortinget will be presented at some point in time to the entire Oslopakket 3. It seems that it is far ahead, but, in the view of the Progress Party, the state should, of course, take a much greater responsibility here. I record that the majority largely discharges their own responsibilities by pointing to the large local initiative in Oslo. I also record that a change in the law is necessary to get Oslopacket 3 in place by increasing the use of tolls to finance not only investments in public transport but also in operation. I wonder whether it is possible under today's EEA agreement, etc. But we'll get back to that. I also note that the majority in this Chamber believe that the City Council of the Progress Party in Oslo should be abandoned. I'm not going to say so much about it, except that if you were to follow the principle that a city council has to leave because you're following a majority decision that you're against, there wouldn't be many councillors left in this government. Governments from the Central Party and the SV could not be long enough — especially not central government councils involved in road policy. The situation for Oslopackak 3 is therefore that in 2003 the red-green lots and the left took a decision to continue the tolling scheme in Oslo. So minority bureaucrats in Oslo have done the best of it. Rv. 55 Fatlaberget: This is a matter on which the Committee fully agrees. That's good. Here it applies to clearing after a race. Rv. 658, tunnels in More and Romesdal: the Committee also agrees and points out that progress and safe behaviour must be given priority. Rv. 64: Here, the committee agrees, but what we disagree about is how to allocate savings and clarify it more. The Progress Party is of the opinion that if earnings were to be improved, not only in this project, but also in other projects, performance should, of course, be allocated according to the parties’ share of funding. In this case, it's the drivers that contribute closer to 78 pst, and then it's easy to find the distribution. The operating tunnel: it's a majority in the committee that's very pleased with the follow-up. The Committee agrees that this is very unfortunate in many contexts — it creates uncertainty, and it may not have strengthened the credibility of those working on such issues. We got the internal report yesterday. I have to say that I am very pleased that the Council of State will now set up in an appropriate manner an external audit committee to look more closely at who is responsible and what has gone wrong. It is strictly necessary to recreate safety and predictability in relation to our tunnels. In this context, I should also like to mention the draft representative in Document No. 8:73. There, the Progress Party proposes an action plan over two years, which will cost us NOK 2 billion. I think there's a cross-political consensus that all of our tunnels are now going to be upgraded to the standard that we've set. Based on today's circumstances, it's going to cost 2 billion kroner. I'm going to be a little careful to say that it's uncertain to drive in Norwegian tunnels, but it's clear that when there's evidence that many of our tunnels are missing, it's in itself an uncertainty. Furthermore, roadside supervision: I would first like to comment on what is going on on advisory quality groups, which seem to be a positive case. But what we disagree about is whether you have to go through a NOU to find out if you need this or not. In the Committee hearing, it became clear that a Commission should in any case not invest any resources in discussing whether or not there is a need, because it is in place. Rather, resources should be used to discuss mandates. For the Progress Party, we are pleased that more and more people are following this with roadside surveillance. But for us, it's just a step on the way to bringing together our supervision in one transport supervision, under one transport directorate, under one transport department. If common transport supervision had been provided, advisory quality groups could be used much more under this common transport supervision. Winter operations: Some point out that competition is negative in terms of obtaining safe winter operations. We do not agree on that in the committee. But what we're registering and agreeing on is that it's a big dissatisfaction. A little humorous can be said that it seems that winter comes very surprising every year. This time it came very surprising on the South. But what we agree on is that there is a great potential for improvement in terms of functional contracts and what's going to happen in wintertime. You have to get a lot clearer on what to order. Other issues: it concerns the Alnabru freight terminal. The Progress Party believes that we must have quality assurance and is surprised that we are getting such a big cut in the budget. I'm recording that now you're not just going to cover roads, but now the community is also going to shoot railway stations. In the case of other matters mentioned here, probably others from the Committee will comment on the matters relating to Rv. 23, Rv. 7, E18 in Bamble and Sotra. I just want to end by saying that I am pleased that the Committee has joined in the assessment of whether a national competence centre for behavioural studies in traffic at Sintef in Trondheim should be established. I will end by promoting all the proposals that the Progress Party is behind and that we are together with others about in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2376	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the suggestions he made okay for. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2381	Let me thank the case manager for the work he has done on this matter. I would like to take note of something like a plurality on Stortinget, all the unbecoming Right and the Progress Party, in a note about the Stockholm trial, which is of considerable interest. Among other things, Stavanger Aftenblad points out that a quarter of the billies disappeared overnight when they received a rush-time charge. It had many positive consequences, including: that there was less noise, less greenhouse gas pollution – a number of positive things at all. The Progress Party in Oslo will now also participate in a collective effort. The representative Sandberg and the Progress Party see that car cows grow in the cities, but they have no suggestions for how to get out of line. Most people get even more in line with the Progress Party's policy, because they cut into collective action. My question is the following: What does the Progress Party mean about an attempt that people in Stockholm want more of?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2390	I like the question, because we have the solution. There are no arguments against the government taking responsibility for bringing in nearly 60 billion kroner in taxes and taxes from the drivers. Here, there is considerable funding that the State could have spent on public transport, but especially on roads. Now that the test system in Stockholm is now permanent, the money paid by the drivers in Stockholm will be used to build roads, while the authorities in Stockholm will actually grant NOK 100 billion to build new motorways. My claim is that with regard to the major challenges in Oslo and what resources we are going to use, we have to make sure to build good roads, such as roads. rv. 35, Rv. 23 and the way between Moss and Horten. Only then do we see how much of the traffic we can move out of Oslo, and then we can focus on how much we can spend on public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2397	The progressing party has stated several times that they are a guarantor against tolls. The representative Sandberg has himself stated that toll financing is a principle issue for the Progress Party. Nevertheless, the largest toll project we have ever seen in Norway, Oslopackakt 3, is being applied for by Peter N. Myhre from the Progress Party. Terje Søviknes in Os has its toll project, and progress party-driven Fränna is applying for a toll project. The Progress Party supported three budgets with a large share of tolls in the last period, here in the Stortinget. Is it not time for the Progress Party now to clarify its policy? What exactly is the Progress Party thinking about tolls? Are you for, or are you against?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2402	The representatives of the Progress Party have been elected on a programme, and in that programme there is nothing to say that we are against the use of tolls. What we're against is coerced, there's no other alternative, bombing, etc. But the day you get the toll project and there are alternative lanes, the discussion becomes quite different. We are, of course, opposed to the principle that the drivers have to pay for something they do not use. That's our starting point. Then I register that the Workers' Party has no other argument to refer to than Oslopackak 3. So it's the Labour Party in Oslo that has adopted Oslopack 3 and forced a minority in the City Council in Oslo to implement it. So, of course, the City Council could have left and refused to implement it. But then it had actually become even worse, because then the Workers' Party, SV and the others who were co-sponsors had introduced a rush-time charge in addition, while getting less resources to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2409	I guess there's something in the vicinity of some kind of history falsification agent Sandberg coming here, when he says that the Progress Party in Oslo has been forced. It's actually like you've had a sample, broadly composed of all the parties in Oslo and Akershus, who have been negotiating on this for a long time. It's called making political compromises and finding solutions. On the other hand, there is one party in this area that has gone against the whole system, and it is the Progress Party in Akershus, and they argue and use the rhetoric that Sandberg often uses in TV debates, but which he now does not use here in the Stortinget. So I'm pretty confused about what's really the Progress Party's policy, because in Akershus you're against it because it's fundamentally wrong, in Oslo you're with it because it's the only right solution for the city. And here the representative Sandberg now also says two things at once. So what's the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2414	I don't think the representative of Wickholm should be so frustrated, because it's quite easy to understand what I'm saying. But when you don't want to understand it, of course you have a problem, but that's not my problem, it's Wickholm's problem. The Oslo Progress Party is not for tolls, and has not gone for it. And the Oslo Progress Party has also pointed out that this is not the only solution. The Oslo Progress Party has proposed that this should be taken into account by the State. It is also true that the Oslo Progress Party has proposed a referendum, but it has not been implemented. It is true that there is a sample that has negotiated this in the light of the decision taken in 2003 by a majority of the City Council in Oslo, where the Labour Party took part. Now it is the case that Oslopackak 3 is to be adopted at some point. The representative of Wickholm and I at least agree – although it may not work this way – that it is not the City Council in Oslo that decides to impose tolls. That's what this hall is doing. And only when we're going to adopt Oslopackak 3 in this room, will the differences come up. I'm sure Truls Wickholm and the undersigned will stand on each side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2424	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2427	In 5 minutes, I will take care of the job as rapporteur for a representative proposal from the Progress Party – while I will say something about the overall proposal. The proposal of the representative of the Progress Party is to re-establish the maintenance of the road tunnels. This will be implemented over two years, with an economic framework of NOK 2 billion. This is for safety reasons. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Progress Party, are equally concerned with security as the Progress Party, but consider it natural to deal with issues related to maintenance site in tunnels in the context of the work of the forthcoming National Transport Plan. Safety in tunnels is also given great attention in St.prp. No Sixty-eight. The fall in the hanekeliv tunnel of Christmas and the evidence of weaknesses in adjacent tunnels created a great deal of media attention. The left was already on the same day as the accident in the Hanekleiv tunnel, requiring independent roadside supervision, which could oversee the infrastructure. The right was also on that track, which we will probably hear about in articles later today. Right and left, with the support of the Christian People's Party, have promoted a proposal on roadside supervision. I am therefore very pleased with what is being proposed, that the Minister for Transport will this summer set up a public body to look at this proposal. The fact that the sample takes one year to investigate the need is a mystery to me. In an open hearing of the Committee on St.prp. No 68 used all the services that met for consultation, almost all of their speaking time at the request of independent roadside supervision. These bodies were the NAF, the Norwegian Motorcycle Union, the Safety Traffic, the Association of Engineers, the RIF, the Association of Engineers, the Association of Construction Industries, the Land Association of Norway's Trucks. In addition, many, both individuals and organisations, have contacted me with a request for independent supervision. The report of the investigation team following the fall of the Hanekleiv tunnel and the audit report of the State Road Authority’s internal audit show that unclear responsibilities, underestimation of safety work and non-use of evidence are factors that led to poor safety of tunnels. These are aspects that independent roadside supervision could have tested. Such supervision may therefore help to prevent such situations in the future. In the view of the Left, the committee to be set down must use its time to examine the mandate and area of competence of the supervisory board. The need is there. I strongly recommend that you set the pace a little bit in this important matter for the safety of our roads. In the staging proposition, but especially in the setting, former Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm is criticized and described as the nearest action lamb in connection with the accident in the Oslo Earth Tunnel. This is untrue, and it hurts a Minister of Transport who really took security seriously. It is disappointing that the government parties had not put themselves better into what the previous Minister of Transport actually did, before describing it in the proposition – and made it clear in the setting. Here you have either had a bad informant or a desire to spread the untruths about the previous Council of State. It's tempting to draw out a statement that reads like this: you don't get bigger by making others smaller. I want to ask you, where was the opposition at that time? Where were the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, if they did not think the previous Minister for Transport did enough for security? One of the most important tasks of the Storting is to control the government. Why didn't they do their job? Criticizing a state council — four years after the fall of the Oslofjord tunnel — that went off two years ago, is, with respect to reporting, boisterous. So finally, the progress of Oslopackak 3 is described in the overall proposition. The left is pleased that the Minister for Transport has said several times in this Chamber that she will follow up this locally-initiated and cross-political proposal. As we write in the setting, this is a broken settlement. Monitoring funding and progress is very important. However, I get a little worried when the Minister of Transport keeps talking – last in the Vegen and We – about introducing road pricing into our four largest cities. However, I expect the Council of State to stand by its promise to the Stortinget to follow up the locally initiated Oslopackak 3. It would be nice if she could confirm this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2456	The representative tended to say that the left was quick to comment on what was happening in the operating tunnel. I'll bet you will! The representative Borghild Tende is fast on the road – in the media – to comment. In the Official Journal of the Drammen on 24 January, she wanted to have a ‘continuing’ work on the repair of the Hanekleiv tunnel. She would ask the Minister for Transport to get ahead of work. When there was an accident during the repair work, she again thought again. How afraid the department had put too much pressure on the contractor. Here is the marking requirement so great that the logic fails. What is that actually representative tend to mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2463	The representative believes, and has always believed, that after the first fall in the Hanekleiv tunnel, it was not known – at that time – that there was also uncertainty associated with other tunnels on the same route. Nor was it known that there was uncertainty associated with the second race. The councils themselves stood up and said that they had full control of the situation – and then they discovered one after another. When I saw it, I naturally focused on safety. So here there's no logical flaw at all. In addition, we were quickly on the road to propose roadside surveillance, where it fails on several points. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2472	The representative tended to refer to the majority’s conclusion when it came to securing tunnels, that it was natural for it to be taken in the form of a rolling of the national transport plan. Now it's like there's been a lot of focus on this with road tunnels, and the trajectory tunnel is an example that it's triggered 350 million. kr – necessary millions – to repair these tunnels in Westfold. We have also been told that there is a deficit in excess of NOK 2 billion to secure our tunnels completely. Is it not natural, then, that the Storting should adopt an action plan and that the current government should follow it up by also providing appropriations to bring about these necessary changes in our tunnels? Isn't that a good goal in terms of what I think the representative Tenden and I agree: to reach our zero vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2479	Of course, I would love to have the two billion to secure our tunnels. But now it is actually that the Left never has – and probably will never have – as much money as the Advance Party cares about. That's the reality. And it's going to be very difficult to discuss politics with parties that have more money to go with – it's almost hopeless – because we always lose such a debate. We relate to the national transport plan and to the state budgets. We're spending money there, and we've still invested more money than the Racial Insurance Government. I am pleased with the fresh money that is now being deposited by the Council of State for work in the Hanekeliv tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2486	It was a well-known politician who was very deeply wounded and hopeless once in a while. Now, in fact, Borghild Tenden is also deeply wounded and hopeless on behalf of former councillor Torild Skogsholm. What happened after the crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel was that this government acted quickly. Start investigating other tunnels in the area and start working on repairing the tunnel. When a race crossed the Oslofjord tunnel, it should have been an indication that one should have examined at least the tunnels in the same geological delta. It didn't happen. So Borghild Tenden says we misinformed, that we had the wrong informants. Can the representative Borghild Tende tell what was done, as she clearly has better information about what happened in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2497	I know that it was done very much for safety. I know that Torild Skogsholm had frequent meetings with the Road Directorate. I know that she also asked for other tunnels to be checked. It surprises me that a former State Secretary can stand here and say something like he says, when he knows how a government council works, and knows that this can happen without being documented or reported back. There is a great deal of meeting activity across the Councils of State and the Vegvesenet and the Directorate of Roads without being able to prove it in retrospect. A former State Secretary should have known that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2504	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2507	This proposition once again shows that this government has a good policy in the field of transport. A number of projects have found their solution in this proposition. It shows that there is a great will to act and do something, not just to ask for something to be done, as we have heard here before. One example of what we are doing is the project E6 Trondheim – Stjørdal, the extension of the toll collection in order to co-finance the construction of Nidelv Bru. This project includes a 132-metre bridge and associated road systems, connecting the E6 and the North Route west of Nidelva with the E6 east of Nidelva. The construction of Nidelv Bru is essential for good traffic management in the area when the northern route of unloading is completed in 2009. That is why we are pleased that we have managed to find a financing solution locally that allows us to start the construction of this important road project two years before it is part of the action programme. We have also noticed that the Progress Party needs to doubt the motivation of the two counties in Trøndelag, that they have done what they have done, because they have been forced, not because they would have a good road project completed at the time they felt they needed it. We therefore commend this initiative, which makes it possible to get the bridge in place earlier than planned. So for the extension of the existing toll regime in Kristiansand in West Agder. We are very positive about this bet on walking and cycling routes. This government has repeatedly called for this to be an important investment, which must take place during this period. It is a positive response both for public health and for the climate. We record that it was made a fun earlier from the pulpit, but it's actually serious, and it has positive effects in both of these areas. At the same time, walking and cycling routes become an important part of Kristiansand’s transport system. The majority will also point out that the drivers will benefit greatly from this initiative, as people can take advantage of the bike and walkway instead of the car, and the road loads will decrease. Under this point, the Progress Party also makes a false reference to a regulation on toll collection, § 5, when they state that ‘toll rates shall be linked to the costs of the infrastructure in question’. The regulation to which the Contracting Party refers is the regulation implementing the Eurovignette Directive and the derogation provided for in Article 9.1.b) does not affect tolls. Toll collection in Kristiansand is defined as a bombing project, so the regulation will not apply to the bombing in Kristiansand. It therefore has no relevance to the matter, and becomes a somewhat special use of argument. There are many toll projects here, but the Svinesund link is the only state toll project, the only place where the state has actually decided that it should be a toll project. Otherwise, on the basis of local initiatives, we here in the Grand Duchy are adopting such projects. There has been a change in the agreements between Norway and Sweden. We notice that we need to get a more effective tariff system, and that there is an inefficiency that has arisen because of different currencies. This will in turn lead to lower collection costs. It will provide a better flow in traffic, while the very moderate increase in the traffic bill will lead to the bridge being paid off earlier than planned. This results in lower interest charges and will facilitate the burden on road users over time, not increase the level of such representative Sandberg previously referred to here. At Klöfta–Nybakk in Akershus the toll tariffs are also changed. The adopted project Klöfta-Nybakk shall have partial toll financing as the first part of a toll development scheme. 2 between the Cliff and Kongswinger. A four-field road is being built on the whole route between the Klöfta and Nybakk, and we're joining what's presented here from the Government. It is very important for efficiency, and therefore also for the type of toll rate to be paid, that continuous development can be implemented. This will also benefit road users through lower costs over time, and better and faster roads. The majority have also noticed again that the Progress Party wants this to be financed from the state budget, and that is what Sandberg took up instead of pointing out that the Progress Party does not put enough money into its budgets to finance all the verbal proposals. We have seen a number of proposals for roads to be built and toll dues to be cleared, but it was impossible to see again the same money when the Progress Party's proposals for the State budget were presented. We look forward to seeing something else in relation to this project, but that has not been the case before. So to the much debated wolf split and Oslo pack 3. There, despite a large budget gap and changes in the entire cost structure, we are now able to find a solution that will enable this project to be realised. This is thanks to the fact that we are now dealing with Oslopackak 3 in two rounds. We will deal with the financing plan first, and then the concrete projects later. In fact, this is something we've had meetings with the transportation agency in Oslo about, and we've been busy getting to. I would rather say that this has been a good cooperation between a progress party politician who is not afraid to use tolls to get to something, and a government council that has the ability and the will to do right things in the field of transportation. It is when you take into account what we have seen in Stockholm, as the representative of Langeland mentioned earlier, that every fourth car disappeared from the road after the Stockholm test, that you can see that the drivers actually have something left to bet on public transport. There will be better capacity on the roads by more people taking the tram, the tram and the bus. And then you pay to get better capacity. I am not so concerned about whether you pay to get some extra asphalt, and that is what gives the capacity. We can also have bigger thoughts and imagine that we get better capacity by more people using other means of transport. The most important thing is that we have a transport system that works, and that gets people back and forth to work effectively, not how much asphalt we actually manage to roll out on the roads. At Fatlaberget in Sogn and Fjordane we had a race on February 5th this year. Here the Government has proposed an important allocation, which means that the cost of this is not incurred locally. I will not comment further on the Hanekleiv tunnel, as the representative Rudihagen will come back to this in his post. But I want to say that from the government parties here on the Stortinget we have been well pleased with the power of action shown by the Council of State, a force of action combined with the prudence that has enabled us to make correct and important decisions at the right time. I think, unfortunately, that's what I'm getting at, but one thing I'm going to mention at the end is that we're now replacing the old non-free chips with a new AutoPASS technology. This is a technology that makes us get better and faster traffic charges and a more efficient system. One can also imagine that this will be a system that will in the future make it possible to have an effective way of charging and pricing. We're assuming that this can be a good infrastructure for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2546	Let me first say that I do not doubt the motivation of the county councils and municipalities to put in place a necessary infrastructure. But I believe that in the case of the county councils and municipalities, they are now gradually not very motivated to build the state infrastructure. That's what's a little bit of a point. But they feel forced because the state infrastructure is too bad. My question is: can the representative Wickholm prove that the Progress Party has not given enough money to the projects that have been adopted? In this case, I would like to see that documentation. Question 2: Has the representative Wickholm seen the exchange rates today, the value of a Swedish krone compared to a Norwegian krone? Now the collection at Svinesund is to be required into Norwegian kroner instead of in Swedish kroner. So my question is, is it going to be more expensive or cheaper when we use a higher value currency?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2555	I have just refinanced my own apartment and then went from a down payment period of 25 years to 14 years. When I don't have to pay interest and pay off my apartment for all those years between 14 and 25 years, I'm going to think it's actually going to be cheaper for me. Similarly, with the Svinesund link, road users will be able to release toll collection periods in the future because they pay more now. It is not the case that all the projects promoted by the Progress Party in this Chamber are adopted. We have e.g. not decided to cancel all toll dues of all toll companies. However, the Party of Progress has proposed it in a Document No. Eight proposals, but they haven't put it into their budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2562	Good policies promote a number of projects, says Wickholm. Yes, we have gradually become quite accustomed to this boast, but what is the matter is that most of this bet is the road users who pay. In fact, I think that Truls Wickholm should clarify every time he mentions all these projects. What I wanted to ask, sir. Wickholm, about, is about roadside surveillance. There the opposition has been evident for a long time. Interesting organisations are very clear. We have a central government council that has taken action and put down a sample. But from the Workers' Party, it's a deafening silence. What does the Workers' Party really think about the establishment of roadside supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2571	Like the previous government, the current government also finances some projects in the transport sector by toll collection, i.e. road users are with and paying. I would like to clarify it and have stressed many times that there are often great local initiatives behind it. We also see here in Oslo that the road users are supporting the tolling. That's actually 54 pst. which is for the toll in Oslo. When the representative Halleraker refers to what the Council of State has done, I have to say that we have a tripartite government where we stand together on those decisions. So what Halleraker sees the Council of State doing is also what the Workers' Party thinks about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2578	Let me first fix the actual errors that Wickholm's representative made. We have proposed paying off the debt on bomb-funded transport projects. We will finance this through the ageing of Stortinget. It is not necessary to take all the funding through the budgets. When we discover that we suddenly have 10 to 20 billion in benefit within a year, it is possible to use some of these. The same principle has actually been applied by the Workers' Party in other areas when we have the ageing for treatment in the Stortinget. When I go on vacation to Denmark this summer, I pay tolls on Svinesund. The next time I drive, I pay 20 pst. more. But that is what the representative, Mr Wickholm, denies. The truth is, it's actually more expensive. My question to the representative is: is it possible for the representative Wickholm to see an opening or a probability that the State will pay its own infrastructure at some point?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2589	I do not deny that the road user who runs through the toll station on Svinesund, as the representative Sandberg mentioned, pays more precisely the time he runs through. It is also clear in our remark. A moderate increase in the price there and there can be defended by that we will get lower interest rates and better efficiency by choosing to do it this way. Is it possible to repeat the last question?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2596	With great goodwill, the President accepts it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2599	Does the representative, Mr Wickholm, see an opportunity in the future for the state to finance its own infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2604	I am pleased with the policy that the Government is now pursuing. We see that in several urban areas in the future road pricing and rush time systems will be necessary. This money could be used in a good way in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2609	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2613	Today’s debate is about the wake of yesterday’s events, the tunnel safety report and the audit report. The first document offers a new, better and more professional regime for tunnel construction and securing in Norway. Finally, the Vegvesen has sat down with the industry and produced a sound report. The quality assurance system at all stages must be followed up. All the favors of the industry that, despite frustration over the previous lack of sensitivity from the Vegvesen, have contributed so positively to this report. The second report of the internal audit in Vegvesenet does not deserve the same cheerleader, which became evident yesterday when road director Søfteland had to leave the boat. The report is primarily an example of how bad it is when the investigators are part of the same organisation as the ones to be examined. Providing a report which is not at all trying to place responsibility or which is unable to place responsibility clearly shows that time is ripe for independent, independent roadside supervision, which was also made clear at the hearing of the Transport Committee on the pooling proposal. So to say that all the hearing bodies were tribal in their demand that roadside supervision be established now. What also became clear was that the same authorities felt that it was unnecessary to ascertain the need for such supervision. The need has probably been so clearly documented in the last year. I hope the Council of State and the Government parties have noticed this, and that we are quick to start the interesting discussion: What are the tasks of roadside supervision? And how is that going to be built up? The right joins the proposed appropriations in the additionalproposal, but will of course follow the budget of the harvest with the argus eyes. We expect the Council of State to keep its word and ensure that every penny that goes to clearing up the tunnel scandals in Westfold is compensated, so that this does not go beyond the ordinary road allocations. Right is in favour of the fact that the Council of State will now carry out an external examination of the responsibilities associated with the development of the E18 tunnels through Westfold. We expect the government to come back to Stortinget with its own case about this scandal. Today, Vegvesenet has given a clear message to Norwegian small children's parents: Do you live in a larger city, we want you to pay a lot more if you are in a situation where you are dependent on a car to deliver children to school and kindergarten, order the job in the city and get home before kindergarten and SFO closes. This is the everyday life of tens of thousands of busy young children's parents. They don't queue at E18 or at E6 because they like it, but because they need to get their everyday lives up. Road pricing is an unsocial proposal, which Trygve Heggna has characteristically embraced: Let it get really expensive to drive in the rush, then there will be a better place on the road for those who can afford it. I am surprised that the representative Langeland boasts that traffic in Sweden has been reduced by 25 p.m., without mentioning who is going through this, namely those with the worst advice, and those who are in the most pressing time situation. The right says a clear no to road pricing or a rush time charge. We say an equally clear yes to expanding public transport in the big cities, which we fully proved in our four years of government. I am pleased that Oslopackak 3 will be implemented without the use of road pricing. I believe that eager road bureaucrats and majority parties respect the broad consensus underpinning Oslopak 3 and that the Government provides the necessary funding and progress. This eagerness after getting a rush-time charge is reflected in this setting, where the red-greens almost ask for a rush-time charge to be imposed on the Nord-Jären. What about Trondheim who just removed the bombing? Will it be reintroduced to meet the request of the Vegvesen and the Ministry to introduce road pricing in the four largest urban regions? The right is pleased that the government has realized that it was a mistake to cut so hard in the reward scheme, and that the money will now be back in place. We want to bet on public transport, we want to improve the offer, and we want to make it easier for people to use public transport to and from work. But it has to be coordinated and organized in a completely different way than today, to get a massive transition from a private car to a bus, boat and track. There was a very large pool of proposals that we had to deal with, and the case rapporteur has gone through most of the measures. I would like to mention that a united opposition has joined the demand of a unanimous assembly in Buskerud to start developing the Ramsrud slope on Rv. 7 next year. The Committee has, of course, seen the wretched standard this way. What we are asking for is simple, namely that the Vegvesen keeps its promises to start building up in 2008. An overall opposition also requires progress in the work on Rv. 23 from Røken to Lier – a tribal road where heavy traffic flows through residential areas 24 hours a day. There's a need for additional traffic protection, and we've proposed 10 million. kr i revised. I am addressing those proposals where the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2641	The representative of Greece has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2646	The representative of the Right has been very active in the media following the fall of the Hanekleiv tunnel with regard to requiring the departure of the road manager and by highlighting his own proposal that roadside surveillance should be established to restore confidence in the Road Administration and safety of Norwegian tunnels. The latter is also reflected in the comments of the Right in the case. However, the post-racial study group also pointed to the need for improvement measures in the State Road Service in relation to such development projects. The need for further investigation was underlined by the Minister yesterday. It may seem that the representative from the Right focuses only on the power and responsibilities of management in such cases, and the need for independent supervision. Does the representative also see the need for other measures to ensure confidence in the State Road Service and the safety of tunnels?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2655	Yes, I explained in my post that I was very positive about the tunnel safety report that was presented yesterday, following a cooperation between the industry and the road safety department. We have heard in hearings and in direct contact with both plant contractors, machine contractors and others that the Vegvesen has been very little responsive to those who are now carrying out the work on our road installations. That is why I am very pleased that this report – and I also said that in my speech – points to a wide range of measures that are necessary, and that one should go ahead to improve the security and better implementation of tunnel construction in Norway. I think it is important that we have independent roadside supervision to have processes under control, to ensure that what we have actually adopted here in the house is followed up, and to ensure that the guidelines that the contractors work for are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2662	I would like to repeat myself, because I think it is very good that the Right is out of government. Now I often found that they come with a lot of good creative solutions to different problem settings in society. Not least, we have seen this when it comes to climate policy, where the right now has turned around in just a few months. They now want to cut two thirds in Norway, and I think it's very good that Right join that team. My question is then against the practical policy in relation to the climate that Right stands for. The representative of Greece made a visit to me when it comes to the Stockholm trial. One might like to be for public transport, as Right says they are, but one must be for actions that work, even in relation to the climate. What is proved by the Stockholm trial, which means that a high-cost drug-free charge, is that everything is getting better: the climate is getting better, the air is getting better, more people are taking public transport, and fewer are on the roads. Why is Right against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2669	Because it's an unsocial proposal, President! As I very clearly underlined in my post, I do not think there are many small children's fathers and mothers who sit in their car in Drammen, for example, to drive to work in Oslo and stand in line for an hour – on a voluntary basis. They may do so because public transport is so poorly organised with transition possibilities, etc., that it is the only way to recover before the kindergarten closes. That confession I actually thought Hallgeir H. Langeland would also take over. Then it's better to focus on offensive measures, call it a carrot policy, where you get better organisation. I can take myself as an example. I use the train, mostly, but once I get to Drammen Railway Station, it's so that the bus has just left. Then it's 18 or 28 minutes until the next bus leaves. It's too bad. It's too bad. This makes it a big rejection, and it makes a lot of people choose to take the car. That is why we are opposed to a rush-time charge, because it is unsocial and affects those who have the worst of the money and the worst of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2676	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. The President proposes that the meeting proceed until the change of line is completed, and that the Storting pause after that. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2679	I'm listening to the argument against this. I still don't think there's any logic in that. Let me skip it then, because one doesn't want to be on this, as most people in Stockholm think is very good for the air, for climate policy, for reduced noise, etc. Let me take another, more ideological theme associated with pollution and climate, as Right is with us the other and will cut two thirds. This with freedom of choice, which is the theme of the Right still away, free school choices, etc., will accumulate a considerable traffic. Is it not best that a person has a policy that actually reduces the transport needs associated with kindergarten and school, so that one has this in his community and thus avoids this social profile that Right has been associated with in relation to the provision of a rush time charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2688	I do not believe freedom of choice in kindergarten or school is essential to the climate challenges facing Norway. But what I don't want to recommend is that we get a labour market where you're going to live and work right in the same place, without the opportunity to have a dynamic labour market. We know that very many people choose to live outside the big cities, because it gives significant qualities in relation to fresh air and the well-growth environment. I am delighted to see when the representative Langeland is implementing his actions, where people are almost forced to live and work in the same place, and the possibility of moving between work and school is deprived. The representative of Langeland and I agree that we need to better facilitate public transport and have better transition opportunities – for example. Our offensive proposals, to which Langeland has joined, in terms of the North-Jear Railways and Railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14.ana.ud46e2695	Then Stortinget took a break, and a new meeting will be held at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The Storting is then proceeding with the examination of the case No. 17 and 23.
