ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e36	The representatives of Heikki Holmås, Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øystein Djupedal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Hill-Marta Solberg from 27 November onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen from 27 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Nordland: Knut Petter TorgersenFor the county of Troms: Knut Werner Hansen3. Knut Werner Hansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e81	Knut Petter Torgersen and Knut Werner Hansen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e87	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen, Solvency Horne and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen, Solvency Horne and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected presidents of Stortingets this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e97	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e100	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Anders Anundsen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on the introduction of seat belt instructions on buses and safe and sound school bus transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e105	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1-3 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e141	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day, with a total speaking time of 6 hours and 5 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 130 minutes, Progress Party 80 minutes, Right 50 minutes, Socialist Left Party 30 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes, Center Party 25 minutes and Left 25 minutes. It is proposed that there should be five lines in reply to the speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines in response to speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as the speeches by other government councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e152	We have a strong and healthy economy in our country. Now we're living in a marked economic context. The big challenge is to sort out so that the good times can last for a long time. It's known that the way we manage the good times has a lot to say about economic developments when the cyclical picture changes. The political parties sometimes have very different views on how this can best be done. The employment rate is now high. The unemployment rate has fallen strongly and is now at a very low level. From the autumn of 2005 until now, employment has increased by over 150 000 people, more than a double of the population of Finnmark. The majority of those who have received a job are people who were previously outside the labour market. In the last two years, 54,000 people have gone from unemployment to work. Of course, it's given them a new meaning every day. Differences have been evened out. The number of long-term unemployed is halved in the same period. A central task in the future will be to make people stand up for work. Real priorities are important in economically difficult times. But it certainly also applies in good times, as we now experience. Now we have to take care of ourselves so that the cost growth does not become so strong that we tear away the basis for competitive business. Therefore, we must retain the use of petroleum revenues. The government does it. Next year, the use of petroleum revenues will be DKK 7 billion under the projected return from the State pension fund abroad. It is a responsible economic course that is definitely forward-looking. It was probably also the way the leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, thought when he in the Stortinget on 5 October was satisfied with this grip from the Government. He didn't think the draft budget would be so tight, he said. The Government Party is working to create a fairer society. The welfare systems and the common good must therefore be strengthened. By reverseing the tax cuts for the wealthiest that the Bondevik II government has done, we've been getting a lot more money into the common fund. For the next year alone, there will be 13 billion more to the community, for example. health and care, kindergartens, education and the environment. The health and care services are very important to us. The quality must be good. There is a condition for patients to feel safe and receive the follow-up they are entitled to. We'll take the consequences of that. The health and care sector is the budget winner for next year. It's going to be a real growth of $3.9 billion. Never before has there been such a good health budget. More people should be treated in hospitals. Next year there will be more investment in buildings and equipment. The roadmap for mental health is being completed, with a strengthening of 940 million. Compare with this year. Psychiatry has been given a major boost with this plan, both for investment and for operation. Nursing plan 2015 will be followed up with, inter alia: a new investment premium for new health and care facilities. There has been considerable progress in the development of kindergartens in recent years. Betsinga has been very offensive. But we didn't get into the goal. That's why next year, there's going to be a real growth of $2.7 billion for kindergartens. The medians will be ear-marked. With the scheme proposed by the Government, the basis should have been laid for full child care coverage in 2008. Two other measures will also be implemented next year to help families with children: the parental allowance for children’s cohabitation is actually reduced by keeping the maximum price unchanged at this year’s level. In addition, the parental allowance for the care of children is increased for the driver, from NOK 5000 to NOK 15 000 for each child in addition to the first. Facilitating the most likely to get a job with an income they can live on is fighting poverty. We're systematically investing in that direction. Fortunately, the unemployment rate has fallen sharply. Despite this, we are keeping to the level of labour market measures. It gives a unique chance for people who have had trouble getting to work so far. The new qualification programme and the guarantee of the provision of labour market measures to those who have been most unemployed are other good measures. In addition, the government proposes strengthening within the drug field and more resources to train adults. Overall, it is proposed to strengthen the response to poverty by 336 million. kr. So far, the current government has proposed DKK 1.6 billion more for action against poverty than the Bondevik II government did. Then I keep out of the promise for assistance of 0.98 p.m. of gross national income of the poor in other countries. There too we show concern and solidarity. The biggest challenge in our time is perhaps to fight against man-made climate emissions. We're going to overfulfill our obligations under the Kyoto agreements. That's why half a billion dollars are allowed for the purchase of climate allowances. In addition, the Government shall be authorised to purchase allowances for up to NOK 3.6 billion in addition to this. Thus, we can invest in developing countries to prevent their future economic growth from damaging the climate. Our country is going to take responsibility for developing technology to capture and store CO2 from gas power plants. The budget for next year is therefore strengthened to clean up gas power plants in Mongstad and Kårstø. The overall economic framework for Enova will be SEK 1.5 billion next year. It opens up a strong commitment to renewable energy. The government is taking new steps to create a fairer society. The distribution profile of the tax system is strengthened. People who have high incomes and wealth are required to pay more taxes. On the other hand, those who have lower or medium income and wealth receive unchanged or lower taxes. The property tax stock discount will be removed. This leads to non-discrimination between axes and other property items such as bank deposits and bonds. This has very good distribution effects, for it is mainly people with high incomes who have large equity assets. At the same time, the bottom deduction significantly increases, from 220,000 to 350 000 kroner, which means that many with low assets do not pay property taxes. Next year, 180,000 people who pay taxes on wealth today will not do so. Half of them are retired. In addition, many will have lower taxes on wealth than today. In this way, we redistribute values in society and make the system fairer. The Progress Party proposes to reduce taxes by DKK 11.3 billion compared to the Government's plan. The tax reduction comes first and foremost to the benefit of the high-wages, because the biggest cut is made in the wealth tax. After the arrangement of the Advance Party, a person with gross income of between 150000 and 200000 kroner will receive tax relief of 1800 kroner. The one that, on the other hand, weighs more than three million. NOK, the Advance Party will provide tax relief of NOK 34700. It's the high income and wealth groups that become winners, not most people. Right will have a system similar to that of the Progress Party. Correctly, the Right will only provide a small tax return for the lowest income group – DKK 400. On the other hand, the person who has a gross income of more than 3 million. kr, will Right premiere with a tax bill of NOK 30 100. The scheme shows that it is given easily to the richest in society. So the right hand side follows well the line that the piece stood for in the previous period, when it was taxed for a total of 24 billion dollars. The government proposes a substantial change in the taxation of the fleets to make them competitive in relation to the system in other European countries. The industry is honoured with the wish for tax exemptions for future shipping revenue. This will increase the profitability of investments in Norwegian shipping. The conversion will undoubtedly also have the effect that Norway can still claim to be a major player in the international arena. The financial situation shows that there is broad support for this proposal. The current regime for the taxation of fleets means that companies do not pay current corporate taxes on excess. The tax will be deferred to the owner's layers to distribute dividends or leave the scheme. I believe that this system is no longer capable of securing initial investment in Norwegian shipping. During the period of the current tax regime, the tax credit of NOK 21 billion has been drawn up. Giving up this amount would have a very unfortunate distribution effect. Therefore, the Government has proposed that DKK 14 billion of the tax credit be paid over a period of 10 years. The remaining amount of DKK 7 billion may be set aside for funds for environmental measures. The financial settings show that there are clearly different opinions about this matter. When there are questions related to the understanding of Grundlova § 97, I refer to the treatment of Innst. O. No 1 for 2007-2008, to be held in Odelstinget in two days. The Progress Party rejects the Government’s proposal and opposes budgeting for this area with revenue of DKK 1.4 billion. Right, Christian People's Party and Left, on the other hand, choose another approach. They oppose the proposed transitional arrangement and ask the Government to renegotiate the case – in dialogue with industry – and submit the assessments to the Stortinget in the revised national budget for 2008. The paradox is that although the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against the proposal, they use some of the containment in their alternative budgets. Right has incorporated 600 million. kr to improve the Government's proposal, i.e. the lot spends 800 million. kr as containment. The Christian People's Party and the Left go in for that 200 million. kr of the amount received shall instead be allocated to environmental funds. They're going to spend $12 billion on containment. It is very unclear how the three parties think it should be possible to collect as much of the tax debt as they oppose the Government's proposal on transitional arrangements. Since this is a question of taxable taxable persons, it is necessary to adopt decisions in 2007 in order to have an accounting effect in 2008. Therefore, the decision cannot be made until June of next year, as the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left propose. The financial settings indicate that there is a fundamental difference between the government party and the Progress Party. Including the external budget, the Advance Party will increase the use of petroleum revenues by DKK 15 billion in addition to the Government’s proposal. The framework for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will reduce the Progress Party by approx. 10 billion kroner. It helps the poorest people in the world in which it is to be cut to a special extent. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall receive a reduction of more than DKK 6 billion after the arrangement from the Progress Party. That it will have dramatic consequences for agriculture and our districts, there is no question about it. The Government Party attaches great importance to the conduct of a responsible economic policy. We want the good times to last. The majority of the professional economic environment warns against using more petroleum revenues and says that the consequence will be higher interest rates and unemployment in the export industry. In economic policy, it is a big step on the civil side. Right has traditionally been responsible for a course in this field, in clear contrast to the Progress Party. Nevertheless, the Right now pursues government cooperation with the Progress Party. Then it becomes unclear what kind of economic policy such a coalition government should pursue. The right has been challenged in this matter. The answer has been that they will conduct a responsible economic policy and follow the rules of action. From the Progress Party, the answer is completely different. The Progress Party concludes that the 2009 election result will determine the economic policy to be followed. If the Progress Party is given a strong position, they shall have a strong impact on economic policy. In this case, the Right guarantee will not have the same value as the Right guarantee. So there is a strong tension between the two largest civil parties in economic policy. It won't be less turbulent if we also thought of Lars Sponheim's clear talk about the Progress Party earlier in the fall. Some days ago, the newspaper had the following comment: ‘In total, the alternative budgets have not brought the civil parties closer together. Rather, they demonstrate the abstinence of the opposition.’» I note that it is unclear what kind of alternatives exist for the sitting government. The search for a home on the civilian side has not been a propitiatory one, but a promoter of conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e218	There's a lot of things you could get hold of, but I'm so glad that the head of the finance committee spends so much of his speaking time talking about the Progress Party. But of course, when a worker party talks about the policy of the Progress Party, it has to go wrong. So to what I want to ask. We have been through a very comprehensive process in the Financial Committee after considering the State budget, and the chairman of the Committee has even managed the Committee very well through its work. We have had several days of hearings, and many hearing bodies have come to the Storting and made important contributions to the Financial Committee in a number of important areas of society. The problem, as I see it, is that the majority of those who have tabled the vote largely choose to ignore everything that has emerged in these hearings, and that organisations, non-governmental organisations and other actors have been involved in. Does the Chair of the Financial Committee then see any need to have such consultations in the context of a budgetary procedure, when those with a majority largely fail to hear what is actually coming out?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e225	The majority in Stortinget, the government party, is concerned that we should have a democratic system. The hearings of both the Financial Committee and the other Committees during the budgetary procedure are an important and democratic act. We listen to the recordings that come – of course we do – but it is so that when our people have decided that the three government parties should form government, we must also have the possibility to use the plurality we have received. And the representatives of the Government Party have had a good, constructive relationship with the Government in working on the entire budgetary process and have promoted our views in relation to it. Then I would like to point out that we have made changes in connection with the budgetary procedure. We have a plus in the budget of 100 million. to strengthen measures to combat poverty, to strengthen the environmental profile and to invest more in the university and higher education sectors. So Ulf Leirstein's concern for the hearing institute is completely groundless.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e232	Norway is going well. Our main political challenge, as the representative Sandal said, is to keep up the good times. Nevertheless, this is a government for the lost opportunities. The government went on a ceasefire in research and higher education, and it's clear you're still stuck on the edge. Today's government spends DKK 132 billion more than was done in 2005. Nevertheless, it is only possible to present an increase of NOK 2 billion. In our most important political area, namely the environment, it is the Right, Left and Christian People's Party that pushes the Government into action and also into increased efforts. Why does this government not spend the money on the big tasks, as the Prime Minister has said and promised several times?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e241	I think the question from the representative of Skovholt Gitmark is at best misleading. The government that we have now spends the big money on the big problems. That is what the Prime Minister has said, and I would like to say: the Prime Minister has his full word. We have invested heavily in these two years, and we have also proposed in the 2008 budget to strengthen the well-being of our municipalities. We had a starving feeding of the municipalities in the previous period. Now we've got an increase of $20.8 billion in the budget we're proposing for the local government sector. I think I should tell you everything. We also invest heavily in another important welfare measure, the development of kindergartens, so we're very well on track. We have very good results to show. In fact, we in the government party are proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e246	The chairman of the Financial Committee was in the hunting business. He thought what had happened in that connection from the opposition, was a bit boisterous, I understand. It may well have something to do with that, in our opinion, the season is not quite there. We haven't had any seasonal guesses in the middle of this election period. But in two years we might be able to address the question for further consideration. Sandal realized that doing the right priorities is important not least in good times. He came into the healthy economy as an important element of it. At the same time, we see that, after the government presented its budget, there was still criticism, even from its own ranks, that the fight against poverty was a low priority. The majority is adding 100 million. kr. There are measures that can be said to strengthen the fight against poverty. I would like to ask the chairman of the Finance Committee whether this is not a recognition that the fight against poverty that the Government has so far accomplished has not been good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e253	Working to reduce poverty is a major and demanding task. The government party recognizes it, and we haven't come to the goal yet. But we're doing great. I would like to remind the representative of the Syversen that the government that is now has proposed, and is now agreed, to increase the pledges to fight poverty by DKK 1.6 billion more than the Bondevik II government did in the period 2001–2005. At least we've achieved far more than that, but the problems are big and formidable. I would also like to remind you that we have an offensive bet when it comes to fighting for better conditions for the poor in other countries. We're increasing the U.S. budget to 0.98 pst. of gross national income. It's never been that tall before. It should be a suggestion that is close to the Christian People's Party's heart, I believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e260	As much a year as there is a financial debate, there is a series of exchanges between the Left Party and the Sandal representative. It's about the basic, that knowledge is power, research is crucial for the future, research is essential for solving the climate crisis, and research is essential for the living and the unborn business. Every time these conversations have something in common: this understanding that I was now presenting. In last year's edition, between the representative Sponheim and the representative Sandal, the representative Sponheim was occupied by the cuts of universities and colleges. In his reply, the representative Sandal says, ‘I want to be clear about it, but I don’t think there’s any permanent state that it’s going to be like that’ – namely, that it’s been a cut. Well, by the year's budget was cut off. Now we see that you cut 200 million. kr at the University of Oslo. That's what's going on in class. We see the same thing in Bergen. Is it so that the representative Sandal, as we approach Christmas times and plan a new budget, can be clearer in the promise that what we see now at universities and colleges, we will experience for the last time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e270	I acknowledge that the commitment to right-wing education and research is an important field for the government party also in time to come. We have demanding challenges. We don't have a target. I'd like to remind you that when it comes to the university and high school sectors and the research field, we'll increase the grant for research by $1 billion next year. It's a real growth of 3 pst. It is also proposed to raise the capital of the Research and Innovation Fund by NOK 6 billion, to NOK 66 billion. I also suggest that we propose 350 new scholarship settings from the autumn of 2008. In three years, the increase in research grants has been as high as in the entire period of the Bondevik II government. If the representative of Dørum is very dissatisfied now, please tell me a lot about how he assesses the efforts of the government in which he himself was involved in the period 2001–2005, which made a clearly poorer effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e279	On the Workers' Party's website, the representative Sandal says that the Advance Party uses money the party does not have, because we spend NOK 15 billion more than the Government. Sandal has previously said that the use of money by the Progress Party will lead to inflation, higher exchange rates and grief and misery for the Norwegian industry. He repeated that to this extent today. He said that if the government could, it would have spent more money. In Ot.prp. No 79 for 2006-2007, under consideration in the Financial Committee, the Government proposes to increase the State’s ownership interest in StatoilHydro from 62.5 p.m. to 67 pst. That means the government has to buy 143 million shares in StatoilHydro. It costs an estimated DKK 25 billion. It turns out that the government can actually spend more money when something is important enough, like that. shares in StatoilHydro. What comes from the fact that the state can pump 25 billion kroner into the Norwegian domestic economy by buying in the market without any negative consequences, while the 15 billion kroner will be spent by the Progress Party will have very disastrous consequences for the Norwegian domestic economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e286	There is a fundamental difference in Norwegian fiscal policy, between the Progress Party on the one hand and the Government Party on the other – and also the former government parties, I was in the process of saying – on the other. We think it's irresponsible for the Progress Party to use as much of our petroleum revenues as they want to do, because it'll set the dollar price above the dollar and lead to an increase in interest in our country. We have put forward proposals – both in the budget for 2008 and earlier – that are within a responsible financial framework. It is also the arrangement that we have proposed when it relates to the purchase of the state's interests in state companies. So there's no reason for such a disturbance that the representative Tybring-Gjedde here is trying to express.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e293	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e296	The Progress Party has presented its alternative state budget, in the confidence that we are making a number of repriorities and new priorities that are important and correct. Norway, with its oil wealth, has opportunities for many other countries to envy us. Nevertheless, this should not be a sleeping cushion. We are going to make good, sensible and necessary investments now, which will provide better framework conditions for today's citizens and for those who come after us. The Progress Party, with its alternative government budget, shows the possibility for us to make such investments. We are promoting proposals to earmark parts of our oil wealth, the oil fund, for other specific funds, which will immediately have a positive ringing effect on Norwegian industry and the population. Norway has a large public sector. This requires, in the view of the Progress Party, that we critically review public operations – in order to ensure that taxpayers’ money is spent as wisely and efficiently as possible. As elected representatives, we manage the money we have available on behalf of the population. That is why, through our alternative government budget, we have systematically gone through all parts of government – in order to make cuts and savings in government, bureaucracy and subsidy schemes. This is what we do, among other things. in order to release funds to be able to give greater priority in the areas we believe the Government is doing too little. And we're doing it to be able to make a big cut in the government's collection of taxes and taxes. The Progress Party wants most people to retain more of their wages and pensions, so that it is possible to live on their own income, and that you can make choices for yourself and your family. Norway is a good country to live in — for most people. However, in several areas, we have shortcomings and challenges that the Progress Party believes we should meet. We can't sit quietly and watch someone experience a welfare society that takes care of most, but not all. Let me then come into the areas where the Advance Party does other and absolutely necessary repriorities than the red-green government adds: We are still reminded of the situation of patients in our hospitals and of the provision of municipal services to elderly, nurturing people. The Progress Party is very concerned about the development of hospitals’ economies and the challenges associated with waiting lists and health cows. Only in the last year have there been 20,000 more people in health queues, and the total number is now over 200,000. In the area of care for the elderly, there are considerable differences between municipalities, and everyone should now see the need for a vigilance for better care for the elderly. The Progress Party believes that we need to provide these people with a better quality offer, more resources must be allocated. We therefore propose a clear commitment to patient treatment and a strengthening of care for the elderly, through system changes, by using private services as a complement to public and more money, our hospitals and more money earmarked for the care of the elderly in our municipalities. The government's poverty response has proved to be very poor, including in the 2008 draft government budget. The government has not implemented the instruments that could have solved the problems of many poor people in Norway. The Progress Party presents several proposals in its alternative budget that will reduce unemployment and increase productivity and efficiency in working life. If we're going to solve the challenges for those who have little to walk with, it's about giving people the opportunity to cope with their own income. The Progress Party therefore proposes tax and tax cuts that will benefit them with low and medium incomes. The Progress Party proposes a clear lifting for all minimum pensioners and young people who are disabled, which will enable them to receive decent income. Drivers, travellers with public transport and business are reminded every day of the lack of investment in infrastructure. There is no need for Norway to cope with the impact of lower standards on the transport sector than our neighbouring countries and the rest of Europe. On the contrary, our country's location, our long transport routes and our scattered settlement indicate that we provide effective communication and reduced distance drawbacks for business and population. The proposals of the Progress Party therefore entail a sustained high level of road development, a halt to the use of toll resources and the establishment of sustainable and predictable financing of development projects within the transport network, both in road, rail and public transport. This is done by proposing the construction of an infrastructure fund where returns are earmarked for real investment in transport. This will provide a basis for investments in growth and value creation in the future. The government's budget proposal will not improve the security of most people. There is no room for higher activity in the justice sector in the draft budget. Norway is now in the bottom layer of police coverage in the Nordic region. The Progress Party will significantly increase the police operational budget next year. This ensures that more police officers are employed, and it allows for the provision of sufficient opportunities for older, experienced police officers to continue their service. The Progress Party believes that Norway should aim at the country’s education system being at the top of the world in terms of quality and learning outcomes, reflecting that future jobs will to a large extent be knowledge-intensive. The government's draft budget puts too little emphasis on education and research in relation to the stated objectives. The Progress Party proposes a stronger focus on higher education and research, better quality of initial training, adapted education and improved maintenance of school buildings and churches. The government's claim that the school benefits from increased transfers to the local government sector is not documented. Over the years, the Progress Party has had earmarked funds for the school sector. The Progress Party primarily believes that basic training should be funded through a single price financing system, where the money follows the student to the school the student chooses to attend. Until such time as such a system is in place, the Progress Party considers that it is necessary to earmark parts of the funding to the municipalities for school bets and better quality of training. The Progress Party believes that it is important to increase transfers to the acute part of Defence, taking into account the current security policy situation. The Progress Party believes that the defence's appropriations have not been in line for a long time with the orders Stortinget ordered the defense to solve. The Progress Party therefore proposes a strong reinforcement of defence by DKK 2 billion. We see this as the beginning of an economic escalation plan for the Defence. The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in today's and tomorrow's societies. Furthermore, the nature of the defence must be such that it can easily be adapted to the various threat images. This can best be ensured by maintaining a fundamental defence with core tasks in Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. The development policy of the Progress Party aims to lift people out of poverty and to provide a basis for growth and development through, inter alia, building up customs and trade barriers, erasure of illegitimate government debt, safeguarding property rights for the wider population, health and education efforts, channelling assistance through voluntary organisations and global funds, strengthening emergency and disaster relief, increasing the use of microcredit and supporting structural measures promoting democracy, the rule of law and the market economy. All supported actions shall be subject to thorough evaluation, performance measurement and accounting control. The least developed countries are characterised by a negative spiral, where aid is the main source of income for the country, while the international financial market and private business are refusing to invest in high-risk markets. The Progress Party asks the Government to examine various aspects of the establishment of a private enterprise investment fund in these countries. The Progress Party's alternative state budget shows an alternative way of addressing the challenges facing society. I find that the red-green government chooses a different course from what the Progress Party wants. It shows that the policy of the Progress Party is a clear alternative to the government's policy, and that the challenges to which we have solutions are only ignored by the Government and met without constructive solutions. Finally, I would like to address all the proposals put forward by the Progress Party alone or with others through the budgetary positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e342	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e347	The Progress Party is now opening for government cooperation with Right. To date, there has been a great gap between the Right and the Progress Party in economic policy. For 2008, for example, the Progress Party will: increase the use of oil money by DKK 15 billion. In the right, they decide that they will have a tight economic policy in the future as well. In recent debates, the Right has rejected the Progress Party's demand to spend much more oil money. The importance of interest and exchange rates has been important. The party of progress and the representative of Leirstein have repeatedly argued that after the 2009 elections it is the force ratio that will determine the type of course to be chosen by any new government. I then allowed myself to ask the representative, Mr Leirstein, if he could clarify what kind of economic policy a possible government of the Progress Party and the Right should lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e354	The Progress Party, through its alternative state budget, shows which policies we want to pursue, if the voters give us a mandate to do so. It is, of course, the 2009 elections that are crucial to the strength of the parties in any government negotiations, as was the case with the parties currently holding government power. The Progress Party does not conduct an unrealistic and irresponsible economic policy – on the contrary. In fact, among other things: The Central Statistical Bureau calculated the economic structure of the Progress Party and stated clearly that our approach, as we set up economic policy, would give less inflation and less pressure on interest rates – the opposite of what Sandal claims. We will return to constructive government negotiations with other parties if the voters agree to this in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e361	In its work programme, the Progress Party writes that the party will have no more than 1 000 people from the Third World, including quota refugees and their families. One might say a lot about the political or moral side of this kind of policy, but I'll leave it to me. On this occasion, I'm more concerned with another thing, and that's that the Progress Party cuts $2.5 billion to Africa in its aid budget. Then is my question to the Progress Party: does the Progress Party see contradictions in its policy, when, on the one hand, they cut into what can bring prosperity and peace to people in Africa, thereby reducing the pressure on Europe's borders, and, on the other hand, does it want to get fewer people from Africa to Europe – and to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e366	The representative of Chaudhry now assumes that Norwegian aid policy actually works and gives these people, among other things. Africa, as he mentions, more hope for a new life. We looked at the news last night that a report from NORAD shows that it has not actually been possible to achieve all the objectives you set for Norwegian aid policy. That is why I am proud that the Progress Party is a party that brings about an alternative aid policy, where we, among other things, are. promote proposals to ask the Government to look at the possibility of introducing a fund in which we can support business activities in these countries. It is incredibly important for these countries, and for the people who live in developing countries, that if we are to succeed, we have to gain business life, we have to gain faith in private property, and we have to put law and order in place. We can do that with other types of proposals that the Progress Party has been promoting, than with the kind of proposals that the representative Chaudhry and others have been swearing to for decades now, and which unfortunately do not prove to be successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e373	In its alternative budget, the Progress Party will lower the taxes on alcohol – in contrast to our neighbouring countries. The civil government in Finland increases the fees by 10-15 pst. next year, and the civil government in Sweden chooses to increase alcohol taxes next year for public health and productivity in the labour market. Based on SIRUS Report No. 1 in 2001 we can dictate the consequences of a price drop in Norway at current Swedish alcohol prices. The consequences may be an increase in the total number of deaths of about 605 per year. years, of which 225 will be fatal accidents and 60 will be suicides, as well as an increase in the crime rate of 700 more violent convictions. The representative referred to vulnerable groups in his statement and said that the welfare society should take care of everyone. Can the Progress Party defend that a cut in taxes is more important than the health of people, that children and young people are subjected to violence, and that they are fighting crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e385	I find that the representative Davøy automatically compares the reduction of Norwegian sky-high alcohol charges with the fact that it will have a lot of negative consequences. It's actually the case today that we, among other things. has a border trade of around DKK 10 billion, where a number of people living close to the border actually move and trade the type of goods to which the representative Davøy aims. This means that we export a lot of jobs out of Norway. Let me also remind you that this is actually a legal item we're talking about. There is no automatic way to use more of that product by reducing charges here in Norway, but perhaps some of the border trade issues we see will stop. Perhaps we could stop some of the huge smuggling and illegal imports that are of this type into Norway if we had reduced Norwegian alcohol charges. We could have secured Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e392	Instead of asking about the designating of the Progress Party and private solutions for health and care, my question is about the overall economic policy of the Progress Party. Former U.S. Governor Alan Greenspan has been in Oslo talking about the mortgage crisis in the United States: This was an accident that was just waiting to happen. Had it not been the mortgages, there would have been something else that had triggered it, said Greenspan about the financial crisis that is now raging the world's banks and four Norse municipalities, according to the report in E24. Greenspan used the term ‘euphori’, well-being through stimulants, about what has happened. Euphoria in human nature builds up and is self-enhancing. There are prices and expectations that are entirely without anchor in the underlying realities. The carousel is increasingly drifting around, but there's no nirvana out there. The markets are spinning, it's happening quickly. The euphoria is replaced by fear. We have little chance of taking the bubbles up. They don't crack until the speculations come," said Greenspan. This description is in stark contrast to Norwegian tradition. Where is the Progress Party now – in our mixed economic tradition or at Greenspan?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e403	We don't have Greenspan at our big group meetings when we make our alternative state budget, so at least let me clear that myth. The Progress Party adds to an economic policy where we include: employs some of the oil resources we have today, to invest in investments that are sensible today and for the future. In fact, during the last growing-up period, the Central Party was on that line in the Finance Committee, but has chosen to change sides now, when you got government power and no longer share your own economic policy, as you did just a few years ago. We in the Progress Party are confident that our economic approach will help to keep unemployment low, to ensure more productive business life, to make more people invest in Norwegian business, to secure Norwegian jobs and to keep taxes low, so that most people can keep more of their own income and live on their own income, which gives human dignity and is positive for the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e412	The Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, writes in the evening post on 15 November that it is madness to bet on high-speed trains in Norway because he is concerned that this will go beyond the existing train offer. He writes that Norway needs higher speed on existing railways. At the same time, the Progress Party in the budget – on operation and maintenance, on investments and on passenger transport by train. And as we have heard here today, the Advance Party grants from a fund that I can't see has given any particular return so far. The Progress Party has a railway policy, and in that case: what kind?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e419	The Progress Party has absolutely a railway policy. Unlike today's majority, who from year to year allow the Railway Agency and other actors to sit and wait and look at the State budget as to whether money is actually allocated to investment, the Progress Party wants a fund, in which we earmark part of the revenue each year, so that predictability of what could actually be allocated to roads, to public transport, to railways and to broadband. It will provide predictability through the governance document National Transport Plan, so that it was known that the money actually came, above what it is today, that from year to year it is dependent on seeing if the bulk of the money is coughing up. The Progress Party, through its alternative state budget, has earmarked money for railway development, made sure that we are betting on the railways where people live, where there are many commuters, so that they get a good and safe offer. We believe that our arrangement would give much more predictability than today's arrangement. And I have registered that, among other things. the Minister for Transport has been out saying that perhaps one should look at the possibility of using oil money etc. for the type of investment. Our point is, let's look at the oil fund, take part of it and put it in an investment fund, and we've earmarked clear funds for rail, for transportation, for broadband development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e426	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e429	The major priorities of the draft budget for 2008 are given to the right. Schools and research are given a boost, care for the elderly and rehabilitation, increasing investment in road and rail, increasing efforts to combat poverty, stepping up climate and environmental efforts, and strengthening both the police and defence budget. There is good growth in the Norwegian economy, and there is room to give priority to important welfare areas and to increase investment in knowledge and infrastructure. Where the government lubricates thinly across all sectors, the Right chooses to make some important priorities. Of course, the challenges cannot be solved by money alone. Therefore, the Right promotes a number of proposals to modernise the public sector. Once the red-green government has stopped the innovation, creativity and the ability to find new and smarter ways to solve the challenges are also slowed. We need to get more out of the resources we have at our disposal, and implement reforms that mean that there will be fewer permeators and more warm hands in care. Right-wing promotions include: proposals for a modernised building and property policy, for neutral VAT in the country to open up more private service providers, for increased competition in road and rail and for lower growth in public administration appropriations. We also want to motivate several municipalities to merge, by reintroducing a state grant to infrastructure for municipalities that voluntarily merge. The main challenge in the Norwegian economy is labour shortage. The government helps to increase the pressure on the economy and thus the pressure on the interest rate and the krona when they provide expansive budgets without measures that could increase labour supply. The government is failing in financial and structural policy both in 2007 and 2008, leaving too much of the economic governance to the Bank of Norway. The danger is that the cost increases in municipalities and higher interest rates can lead to a reduction in service provision across the country. Right will ensure that the good times can last longer. Therefore, we will make it more profitable to work, more profitable to invest in new ideas and more profitable to save. We also reduce the use of the money from the pension fund. These are not new proposals that the Right supports in the 2008 budget. Ever since the boom began, the Right has promoted both structural proposals and a fiscal approach that would increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. The most important thing we do in our draft 2008 government budget is to add to a comprehensive strategy to motivate and increase access to more labour. In fact, the right presents 31 proposals to increase labour supply. The proposals include increasing the number of people from social security to work, freeing labour through the modernisation of the public sector, increasing labour mobility and increasing the profitability of work. An ICT-Norway survey shows that four out of ten people will work more if they keep more of their own income. In today’s labour shortage situation, it is quite incomprehensible that the Government disregards the link between lower taxes and increased labour supply. The right-hand side increases the minimum deduction by $2,500 for everyone. It's worth your while to work. The Minister of Finance often talks about the labour force being our most important resource. Why does she not want to make it more profitable to work for people with very common salaries? The right also presents a strategy to increase the number of older people in work. Several older workers have skills that both the public sector and our businesses need. Now we know that almost six out of ten 62-year-olds and actually eight out of ten 66-year-olds are out of the labour market. We know that there are several older workers who want to work longer. Therefore, the right-hand side proposes a separate tax deduction for older workers who are at work, of NOK 6000 per person. years. We propose senior measures within the police and at school, and we will remove the curtailment of pensions for all between 67 and 70 years of age who choose a combination of retirement and work. Never has the country's economic space been bigger. The red-green government can enjoy record tax revenue and high oil prices. Only since 2005 have tax revenues increased by a staggering 130 billion kroner. No other European country can dream of a similar situation. Nevertheless, these countries choose to give priority to knowledge and research. In Norway, the Government has adopted a different strategy. In good times, the red-green government has lowered the ambitions of knowledge and higher education. One has gone from a 2007 rest cutting to a 2008 error cutting. I still remember the party leader in SV, Kristin Halvorsen, who traveled the country and beach around in the election campaign in 2005 and talked about that the future is not at the bottom of the North Sea, it is in the heads of our children and our youth. Who would then have thought that a government with a finance minister and a knowledge minister from SV was the party that was to deprioritize knowledge? In good times, it is important that we invest for the future. Therefore, in addition to higher education and research, the Right chooses to invest more in road and rail. It is short-term policy to reap in good times without simultaneously sowing for the future. To ‘share’ and ‘redistribute’ are well-known terms in the red-green vocabulary. But creating seems to be a foreign word. We need more small and medium-sized enterprises that can secure jobs and ensure value creation and well-being in the coming years. We can probably keep surfing in good times for a while, but that's short-term policy. The right therefore presents a forward-looking industrial policy focusing on research, infrastructure, innovation and travel, and a lower level of taxation that will make investing in Norwegian jobs more profitable. Let me also add: it is important that the municipalities also get something left when they facilitate value creation in the municipalities. Local authorities must feel that they are helping small and medium-sized enterprises and that there is more value creation, there is also more money for well-being, more money for kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly. The left-hand side obviously looks completely different. For them, well-being is granted by the state. When the red-greens now take an even greater share of corporate tax from the municipalities, an important motivation for municipalities to facilitate new businesses is also removed. Then it becomes more important for municipalities to apply for higher transfers from the state, rather than to apply for more enterprises to the municipality. It's short-sighted. It affects many municipalities, and it becomes no more, but less well-being. The right will do more for those who need it the most, and therefore increase the effort to combat poverty by approximately. 400 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The right-hand side increases the housing stock by 75 million. kr, strengthens efforts to help drug addicts, implements several work environment measures and proposes lower prices in kindergartens for low-income families. To the Right, of course, it is a political responsibility to ensure a worthy old age, modern hospitals, good schools and safe kindergartens, but it must not mean that the public should also operate all welfare services. The challenges in several of these areas are so great that we need to mobilise all good forces, private actors, voluntary and non-profit organisations. Under the red-green government we see that steps are being taken where there is less room for private actors, voluntary and non-profit organisations. The price tag for the ideological skyscrapers of the red-green parties is a lower service provision for the population. Health cows are growing. The offers in rehabilitation and training are weakened, because the red-green government down priorities and cuts in private offerings. Child protection is weakened, because private offers are deprived. There will be less diversity in School-Norway after the possibility of establishing health schools has been weakened. Finally, let me point out that the non-socialist parties in many areas are moving in the same direction. Overall, the government is challenged in important areas. Of course, there is a lot that separates, and I don't want to exaggerate the consensus, but at the same time there are some important ideological areas where the Government is challenged. There are better framework conditions for enterprises — working pay — increasing efforts to promote savings, increasing awareness and research efforts, more to police, more to combat poverty and more space for action for voluntary organisations. There are some areas where the bourgeois parties are moving in the same direction. Finally, let me address the proposals on which the Right is the proposer or the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e466	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e471	Right try to give the impression that it's a responsible political party, a party that people should be able to trust. In its alternative budget, the Right will reduce various agricultural schemes by 1.9 billion dollars next year. That's a 16 pst cut, and that leads to a decrease of NOK 33,000 per year. agricultural annual work in 2008. The proposal must lead, for example, to: the 2008 agricultural agreements, which have already been concluded, must be set aside. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Sanner: is it right that there is good and defensive practice to terminate an agreement in the middle of a contractual period without notice of any kind? And: Is Right’s proposal a happy message to our districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e478	In the election campaign, the Minister of Agriculture from the Senterpartiet visited one of the municipalities of Reidar Sandal. There he was told by the farmers who wanted to co-operate, that if they were not allowed to co-operate, their farms would be closed in a short time. It was because of the agricultural policy of the red-green government. When I draw that example, it is to show that one of the main problems in the agricultural sector is that the farmer has too little freedom, that there are too many concession laws, too much regulation, too much housing, that makes the price of agricultural property sink, and that the farmer gets too little freedom. We believe that our agricultural policy is sound and responsible, and that the combination of greater freedom for the farmer can be combined with a slightly lower level of transfer. We have an overall arrangement that is also very good for District Norway, and far better than what the government is presenting. We improve the framework conditions for coastal industry and for small and medium-sized enterprises, and focus more on road construction in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e488	The representative Sanner says he wants more money for well-being. It's fine. He'll get our support for it. I just wonder if Sanner has a good conscience for the money he spends for well-being. Although the Right gives some tax relief, it may still be possible to dispose of $10 billion that this government has involved in tax relief, but that the previous government would like to use. Furthermore, in the Right Program, I see that the Right Flags are high that they want to remove the property tax, and I have seen that some Right-Choosers have been plagued by the fact that there is not so much happening here. In this year's budget, there are no right-wing ambitions on their own behalf to eliminate the property tax. If you want to get rid of the property tax, that means another $10 billion. You can get a lot of well-being for $20 billion. Of course. Does Sanner think that it would mean something for sick pay, disability benefit or increased prostheses not to have 20 billion kroner available?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e497	There's one context that I miss in Lund Bergo's reply, and there's the connection between value creation and well-being. Well, well-being isn't something we can just afford, the values must also be created. When the right is concerned with lowering the tax on low and middle income, it is to make it more profitable to work. When we go against the government's tax consolidation for those who invest their own money in Norwegian jobs, it's because we want to make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian businesses. Then there will also be more money for well-being. In fact, tax revenue has increased by NOK 130 billion since 2005. And why? Well, because there's good growth in the Norwegian economy. We believe that it is right that we should also invest in the future, while giving priority to some areas of well-being. There is a link between providing good framework conditions for our businesses, investing more in the future and giving priority to important welfare areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e506	The representative, Mr Sanner, is in his intervention concerned with the large financial resources in the budget. He is concerned that the government is spending too much money, and believes that we are bringing too much pressure into the Norwegian economy. The right cutters totaled SEK 1.6 billion in the state budget compared to the government's arrangement. It's a cut that equals 0.7 per million of the national economy. Does Sanner think that the difference between leaving the good times and putting the economy in control is in the vanguard? So Sanner did not answer the direct question from the representative Sandal. This cut corresponds approximately to the Right Cutter of an already concluded agricultural agreement. Last week, Stortinget dealt with a Document No. 8 proposals from the Right calling for ‘forecast framework conditions’ for agriculture. Does the Right believe that this is a predictable framework for agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e515	The answer to that question is yes, but let me spend a little more time on the first question. I have not said in my post that the difference between a responsible financial arrangement and the government's arrangement is NOK 1.6 billion. If the representative had listened to my post, he would have heard that I was very focused on the need for more labour. This is the main challenge in the Norwegian economy. There is no lack of money, but simply that we lack the hands to work in the welfare areas, who are going to work in school, and who are going to work in our companies. When there is a shortage of labour, we see that there will be pressure on wages, there will be pressure on interest rates, and there will be pressure in the Norwegian economy. Therefore, the most important step we take in our budget, the overall plan we are launching to increase the supply of labour, by getting more from social security to work. We make it more profitable to work by modernising the public sector and by increasing labour immigration a little more, not least the competent labour force. There's the difference between our arrangement and the government's arrangement as to how to take account of the economic challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e522	Right has a lot of suggestions for getting more people to work. As far as I was able to count, there are 31 proposals for action. In fact, the effect of some of them is quite unclear. It's been no more than two years since the Right had the Minister of Finance, put in government and participated in the presentation of the State budget. Why didn't those proposals come to the right? Was it because many of these proposals would not increase the workforce particularly? Or was it because the Right really isn't so concerned with this problem when it comes to the piece? Was not the situation more acute while the Right was in government? Which of these 31 measures did the Minister of Finance bring with him when he was last in government and made available the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e529	I am tempted to say that now we must stop talking about the snow that fell last year. Now it's time for the red-green government, which has been in power for two years, to start taking responsibility and looking forward to it. In fact, several of the proposals contained in our overall plan were also the policy of the bourgeois government, among others. to lower the tax on lower and ordinary income in order to make working more profitable. But the situation today is more precarious than it was two years ago. In fact, there are now twice as many job vacancies as there are unemployed. This means that the fight for labour between municipalities, between health institutions and between enterprises is increasing, and that means that it is now that we need to take action to increase the supply of labour. It's actually the most important thing we can do to get the good times to last longer, so that we can get more well-being, and so that people can experience security in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e536	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e539	On Friday I visited the International Energy Agency in Paris. According to their up-to-date forecasts, the energy consumption of oil, gas and not least coal will rise dramatically until 2030, if we keep up as we push ahead. 60 pst. the increase in emissions will come in China and India, and the good image of this is that a new coal-fired power plant will be opened every week in China. Although in this way we are going to run the globe into an eternal tropical rainy season, here in Norway we have no opportunity to stand with a moral index finger against neither Chinese nor Indians. They're doing this for one reason. They do it to create economic growth to meet the same standard of living as in Norway and America, so that they can drive as many cars in as many cars as we do, use as much electricity and argue about refurbishment in the kitchen department at IKEA as often as we do. What can we do with this? One thing we can do is go to Bali and make sure that emissions are completely capped in 2020 and get Norway to assume strict emission obligations. The second thing is to do the job at home, and we're doing the job well in the budget that we're adopting here in the Stortinget today. When nearly 85 pst. the total energy consumption of the world comes from gas, coal and oil, it goes without saying that extensive clean-up and storage of CO2 from the stationary part of these sources will contribute enormously. We do this job here in Norway when, as the first government, we spend almost $1 billion on cleaning at Kårstø and Mongstad. So when a traveler travels to other countries in Europe, it's all right to get the feedback that it notices what we're doing and that it's seen as important. No government other than ours has put money into this. We were first out reinjecting Sleipner, and we're going to be in the middle of developing technology, so that it can be used in large monn in the years that come. We are continuing to invest in rail at a historically high level, and we are continuing to explore high-speed rail between the major cities of South Norway, in line with the policies of the rest of Western Europe. We're hanging out, but we're on track. In addition, we put DKK 4 billion into the year's budget and into future years' budgets for the purchase of climate allowances, because we have taken on higher commitments than we have strictly had to under the Kyoto Protocol, and because it is necessary to achieve the objectives we have. As electricity prices rise across Europe over the new year, there is evidence that the introduction of a cost of CO2 emissions works. Because most energy sources and power sources in the rest of Europe are fossil, it helps to push electricity prices up. What is more right for us here in Norway than that we take a little bit of the price increase that people and businesses notice, and invest in new renewable energy? Our government has more than doubled the commitment to renewable energy. When we do that while we're increasing fuel oil charges by 40 cents, we're doing it economically for people to choose off polluting energy sources. We support people to become independent of polluting energy sources, such as oil fires, and to bet on more environmentally friendly heating. We take important steps in the environmental field when we do part of this. Diesel charges: The last time an increase in diesel taxes was proposed, some of the older wholesalers heard how truck owners drove for hours around Stortinget, until Stortinget took off and let it be to increase diesel prices. So we're going to increase the price of diesel by 20 cents per cent. liters next year, because it's going to be more profitable to choose fuel-efficient cars. It has not been a hug – hardly enough – from the Progress Party. We are strengthening aid in the world. Let's do it, for example. by helping countries to take democratic and sustainable control of their own natural resources, while at the same time strengthening the commitment to environmental aid of 400 million. kr. In order for the green development mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol to act as technology transfer to all countries of the world, not just to China and India, more countries need to be helped to develop environmentally friendly projects. So there are many good examples of how energy is wasted, simply because there are no public authorities in there taking the necessary steps that could save a lot of energy, create cheaper energy for people and create well-being and development in several countries. Our three government parties went to the elections to choose well-being, community and fair distribution instead of tax havens and egotism. One of the places where this is most evident is about what's going on at our kindergarten. We provide full coverage during 2008. I would like to say a few words to the City Council in Oslo on this occasion. They run out-of-account championships when they make their own incompetence in meeting the child-hafts into a problem primarily for SV. We're proud of the huge welfare promise we're taking, and we're all asking to join in to pull it off. So you don't have to show up until the hard work doesn't work out. In the meantime, we've frozen the nursery price. We promised both lower kindergarten prices – a low max – and we promised kindergartens for everyone. We'll keep those promises! The time when Øystein Djupedal and May Hansen set up the kindergarten agreement in 2002, the price was NOK 4000 in a good number of private kindergartens. The fact that we have now reduced the price, gives a family of children over NOK 18 000 more to walk with, and leads to more people with poor advice getting babysitting and going to work. So this is to the Right Jan Tore Sanner. This is one of the most important measures our government implements to enable people who want a job to go out to work. At the same time, when we give people an increased discount on babysitting for the second and third children, it really pays to work, and it's cheap to choose kindergarten. So this is the greatest welfare promise – perhaps the greatest knowledge promise. We're taking a big joblift and a big equality lift. That's the biggest thing that's going to be left after our ageing period when we go to elections in 2009. We have sent out suggestions on how to ensure that everyone is entitled to kindergarten, and it is going to be implemented. The knowledge for our children begins at school. It begins in kindergarten, and continues in school through good learning experiences. Then it is very important that we ensure – as for those children who now have free core time in the Groruddalen in Oslo – to extend such projects to more people. We know that if we don't make sure that the kids can Norwegian when they start school, the bad learning experiences come from year one, which undoubtedly helps us to have as many people as we get out of high school. By expanding the number of hours, implementing and expanding the projects in relation to free core time, healthier nutrition, better health and better concentration in school by getting fruit and green, and when we grant the right to secondary education for several of the adults who have not had the right to advanced education to now, this contributes to a great level of knowledge. Next year, we're going to be at the highest level in the case of directly funded scholarship holders from the Storting, that is, above what the previous government was ever on. When the Storting takes up the opportunity to re-prioritise the state budget, we're just giving funds to follow up these scholarship holders. We are increasing research efforts, and we are increasing the Research Fund to provide more stable conditions. One shows very clear signs of what kind of direction things are going in. The second important step we're taking is in terms of fair distribution, and we're going to get more back to that in the tax debate. So we're turning the trend even more strongly where the 10 percent that's at the top of society is pulling away. The previous government, together with the Advance Party, wanted to abolish the property tax. We use the wealth tax for even better redistribution by increasing the bottom line, so that more people do not pay taxes on wealth, and we strengthen the distribution profile in general. We take good action to get more people to work. We're doing this in a way to help just those people who have the least money, those who are social welfare recipients, by strengthening the qualification aid scheme that we have, and by taking important steps to get more people to work. In this way, we create a more fair and more environmentally friendly society, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e582	There has become a little more quiet about the fight against poverty that SV has entered into in each election campaign. So now a government budget is going to have to pay $15,000 to the community. At the same time, the government says that a person who only has $100,000 to travel with is poor and will not be able to participate in social life as one should. I am completely in agreement with that. Therefore, the Advance Party would also like to raise the credit card limit to NOK 70 000 for the current year, and then raise it to NOK 100000. So we didn't think anyone who thinks as little as NOK 100,000 would have to pay taxes at all. Then my question is to the representative Holmås: Does the representative of Holmås think that it is reasonable and correct that a person who only has NOK 100000 in income, NOK 100000 to route with, should have to pay NOK 15 000 to the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e589	I think what's important is to look at the sum of all the arrangements. We have good housing support, we've made it cheaper to participate in more and more arenas, and we've made it cheaper for people to have a kindergarten. I think these are important things. In addition, we have ensured – every year, by this year at the latest – that tax relief should be given to the groups that Gjermund Hageseter is talking about. I think we're going to keep doing that in the years to come. The most important steps we have taken to create a better distribution profile in the year's budget are in two aspects: one is that we have ensured that wealth tax exemptions are more readily exempt from the tax on wealth to the people at the bottom. After all, the Progress Party would give the most wealth tax for the people who have the most money in this country – that is quite right. In addition, we have the last act that we take, which the Progress Party is not involved in either, namely that we improve the distribution profile by taxing the shipping industry and withdrawing some of the tax credits that they have had outstanding. I think that if you look at the whole of the Progress Party's tax profile, there is no doubt about where the biggest money goes. We've been conducting a good distribution policy every year, and we're going to keep doing that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e599	I hope the representative Holmås will forgive me that after his engaged talks on the world's climate problems and Norwegian kindergarten bet, I ask him a question about how the poverty bet goes. The government's statement to abolish poverty I heard a little about from Holmås, but I heard about it from the committee leader Reidar Sandal. It has now become a ‘systematic’ commitment to poverty. In terms of numbers, they say that this is NOK 1.6 billion more than in the budget of the Bondevik government. Yes, but then you forget that now you have NOK 132 billion more at your disposal. This is the number line that poor people at all can't live by. Has the SV and the Government left their goal of eradicating poverty? Are the poor to be satisfied with crumbs? Is this now just becoming a ‘systematic’ commitment to poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e608	No, our government can have no other goal than to eliminate poverty. So do we. It's perfectly clear in the Soria Moria Declaration. The most important step to ensure that there is fewer poverty in Norway is to help more of the people who have had trouble getting into the labour market get into work. I believe that it is very clear that our government is both working on this and succeeding in this when, in the last year, we have managed to halve the number of people who are long-term unemployed, i.e. people who have been unemployed for a long time. That number has fallen significantly. When, at the same time, we introduce a qualification grant, which means that all the people who have a desire to get into work have the opportunity to do it through good programs and can get a follow-up to it – they will get a job and help with it through the new qualification programme – I believe that we show very clearly that we are serious. At the same time, when we are taking action on behalf of the people who are the most supportable, namely drug users, and both on the part of the government and on our part say that we should step this up in the coming years, I believe that the speech of the figures is clear. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e615	The President requests that the speaking time be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e618	After being one who sat close and was one of them who demanded that we have room before we subsidize at price, I think that the post to the representative Holmås was quite challenging. But I'm going to take a completely different case here. It was celebrated as a victory when the red-green government parties in the Soria Moria declaration promised that ‘The appropriations for development cooperation reach the target of 1 per cent of GNI and that the effort subsequently escalates further over the period’. This was celebrated by SV. This is the third budget harvest by a red-green majority. Nor now does the government propose what they have promised. The Christian People's Party does that in our alternative budget. I'll pay you 1 pst. It's hard to prioritize. There is no shortage of income for the state fund. They're bigger than you're supposed to be. There is no shortage of extreme poverty and distress that makes it necessary to keep this in focus from our country. There's no lack of power, because the red-greens have the large-scale number. The only thing I'm left with is the question: is there a lack of political will to actually do what you promised through the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e634	Maybe I'll start by saying to Dagrun Eriksen that I think it is very good that they have prioritised public assistance so high in their alternative budget. It's always great. I believe that this is something we have gone into and backed each other up in the period when the Christian People's Party agreed to pull this up, and I am absolutely convinced that Dagrun Eriksen also remembers that we took up these total amounts in the period when we were in opposition. Now we're in position, and we have a clear goal that this is something we're going to get to. I also said that when the budget was presented. In this year's budget, we are increasing aid by SEK 2.3 billion. In next year's budget, we are adding an increase of SEK 1.5 billion – in total, the largest two-year increase ever. I don't dare promise anything, but I think I can go so far as to say that I have a very clear vision that what is in the Soria Moria statement, we are going to rejoice together in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e641	I'm not going to shoot Heikki Holmås' jubilee in 2009. But I want to tell him that for a few weeks back – just before the government had its budget conference – one morning in August, in the middle of the election campaign, I woke up and heard the representative Holmås’ manly voice appealing to his own government that a proper grip had to be taken to ensure an active and social housing policy in order to fulfill the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. Now I'm not going to make any point of saying that the representative Holmås, as an important fiscal politician for the Government, must have the help of the broadcast to reach the Minister of Finance's ear, but I'm going to quote the head of the Leasebo Association, Lars Aasen, who believes that housing policy is the area where there is the greatest gap between intentions and reality in relation to the Soria Moria declaration. Does the representative Holmås share this description of reality from Lars Aasen, or does he believe that the government in the budget now available has supplied it as it always active in social and housing policy, Heikki Holmås, appealed to the Government about an early August morning?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e648	I think it is right, as Lars Sponheim points out, that in the field of housing policy – as Mr. Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has also said – it remains to take some important steps to achieve the Soria Moria declaration. We take important steps in relation to student housing policy, which was one of the tasks that the three government parties assembled to do in advance of the government statement, namely that we wanted to increase the number of student housing. I guess we got a happy message here from the NSU, which thought that the grips that had been taken to increase the number of student homes were very, very good. Now it is important to target the development of the other residential areas. We've invested more money on the homeless. After the Storting re-prioritised, we also put more money in this budget both on the follow-up of housing support to make it somewhat more targeted, and not to discriminate in terms of whether the house is funded by the House Bank or by others. It's a very important signal. At the same time, we follow up more. One of the major problems is that of coming from prison and entering the home afterwards. Here we're going, but we have a little bit to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e655	SV tries to pretend to be a party that takes care of the woes of the developing world. I therefore wonder why the SV's fiscal spokesman does not support the proposals of the Progress Party to remove the high customs barriers around Norway, so that the developing countries can sell their goods to Norway to a greater extent. Several reports and clear figures conclude that the developing countries that have invested in free trade and exports of goods have achieved more well-being and economic growth. Why doesn't Heikki Holmås fight for this, and why will SV charge goods from farmers and producers in the world's poor country? It was also a bit interesting that Holmås talked about the environment in his article. Why will Holmås not be involved in establishing a fund for investment in private business in developing countries, so that one among other things. can Norwegian environmental technologies be used in these countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e662	Now I think almost Jørund Rytman has read a different budget than what I have read, because we are taking – in line with what has been a working group's recommendations – important steps to give zero to several countries. We have now increased the number of countries with customs freedom, from 50 to 64 in this year's budget, plus that we are lowering customs duties for all the other developing countries. What we're not interested in is removing all customs rates for every country in the world. Because what we know will happen then is that the market in Norway will be flooded with American and Australian-produced meat. This would dispel the entire Norwegian market for farmers in Norway, while the poor countries would lose the quality of their zero duty. Here we have taken important steps in the budget to give priority to developing countries. We have to follow that more closely in the years that are coming, to make sure we get to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e669	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e672	A few weeks ago – it was just about the replacements in the government – a press release from the Ministry of Finance was sent out. In the introduction there it says, ‘What about trying to be a finance minister at Kristin Halvorsen’s office?’ I wondered for a moment whether there was anything about the government change I had not quite got with me, that there was a general opportunity to fill that place. It wasn't, but it was a launch of a new online financial game from the Ministry of Finance. Now I didn't think it was speculation and games that were in the first place in that department, and by closer scrutiny it was a game for young people about society and economy – and it could be well and good. On the other hand, it struck me that the Minister of Finance has made some promises, not least in kindergarten policy, which may have meant that this ‘trying to be Minister of Finance’ was a recognition that the promises have not been fulfilled. It is not likely that the expectations created by this government in very many groups of Norwegian society have fallen proportional to the number of months spent in government offices. I guess there's a lesson that everyone can learn from. When the Christian People's Party presents its alternative budget, it is also in order to present a budget we believe we can stand for once when we come back to the offices where the executive policy takes place. Central to us is that we want to build a society where co-humanity and care are guiding values. Every human being has an inviolable value, and it has to be at the centre of social building and of the institutions of society. Poverty, injustice and distress are nothing a human society can passively deal with, whether at home with ourselves or far beyond our own borders. What keeps getting closer to us is our responsibility to manage the environment for the benefit of all people – both those who live today, and not least those who come after us. That is why we have been committed to this when we present our alternative budget. This will include, inter alia: expressed through the following efforts: we want to bring the assistance up to 1 pst. by divesting 458 million. kr more than the Government makes in its proposal. Within this we want to give priority to Africa, education and health. We also want to give priority to the fight against poverty at home. Over 300 million. In addition to a wide range of other measures that will work in the same direction. I have to say that I get a little tired of this comparison with what the Bondevik II government did and didn't do. It was the Bondevik II government that launched a concrete poverty campaign. When you look at the accounts for 2005, i.e. the last year in which the Bondevik government sat, the government spent NOK 650 billion. For the next year's budget, it is proposed to spend NOK 771 billion, i.e. NOK 121 billion more. Then I can rhetorically ask about the government parties, when they know that they have more than 120 billion kroner, they seem to have invested in poverty at home to the extent that the poor deserve it. Each one of you gets to answer for himself. The comparison with other governments is staggering when you take into account the enormous wealth this government manages in the 2008 budget, earmarked for NOK 771 billion, which we are going to use. In our budget option, we also believe that we reflect the seriousness of the climate crisis more than what the Government is doing. It means a sharp distortion of taxes just to initiate more environmentally friendly consumption. There will be more crowns of renewable energy, public transport and rail. For the Christian People's Party, civil society is an important cornerstone of society. The conditions for voluntary, non-profit actors are significantly strengthened in our budget option through a voluntary package of their own. In the care sector, we increase efforts by 200 million. kr on the same field. A safe growth is perhaps the best thing we can do for our children to secure our whole society. The school effort has been a lot of talk about — or maybe we should say the lack of school effort from the sitting government. We don't think it's right to increase the number of hours further when we see that municipalities are already restricting the number of teachers. We'd rather fill the hours we already have, with more quality and better follow-up of the individual student. That is why we also strengthen child and family protection. It gives a safer growth, and it is important for those children who may have the greatest challenges in their growing up situation. We also provide more care and care for children with drug dependence and mental illness. In the case of higher education, it's symptomatic that my own university, the University of Oslo, if the board gets what it wants, next year will cut 200 million. kr. At my old faculty, the legal faculty, it's suggested to save money to cut exam time from 8 to 6 hours, and to cut sensors down to one per. student when examination is given. It tells me something about that there's a lot going on before we can say that we have something up in that sector. In the care of the elderly, we had now actually expected a binding cross-political escalation plan from the Government, as promised by the government parties in the election campaign. For the time being, we haven't seen anything about it. We believe that today's older people deserve an escalation plan, and we also believe that this is necessary. It's a big challenge when we know that within rehabilitation is one in seven beds closed in the last two years. It must actually mean that people who need rehabilitation now do not get it. Seniority policy is important. Reidar Sandal was aware that more and more people are coming to work, and we also know that there is a great deal of pressure in the Norwegian economy. Non-socialist parties have joint proposals to ensure that more time can be spent on the labour market, including: Takes the initiative that 68 and 69-year-olds will have more to do in order to work by removing the curtailment in relation to the pension they have. I think that, after the Government's proposal was presented, very little has happened in the Stortingen relating to the budgetary procedure. In the Financial Committee, we have had more than 50 hearing bodies. It's not sure the government's proposal has been perfect, but when there's a change of about 100 million. kr, it says something about that the race has been largely completed. Then I'd say the changes, the 100 million. kr, at least points in the right direction. It's housing support, it's more for addicts, and it's at least a small signal in education and research. Even though these 27 million. kr was oversold by the representative Holmås, it is now at least a signal, without me being absolutely certain that it gives some results on the Richter scale that are of importance! This year's Nobel Prize winner in literature, Doris Lessing, has said: Think wrong if you want, but think for all things yourself. I think the government has thought for itself in terms of both shipping and power plant taxes, but they have therefore thought wrong, and we will come back to that in two days. I think the changes made here point in the wrong direction to business and to incentives for more renewable energy. I would like to take up with this the proposals of the Christian People's Party, both those we are alone in, and those we are together with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e705	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e710	When you listen to the representative Syversen, you realize that they are strong in the faith of the Christian People's Party, but the memory is different, obviously. I don't know if it's forgiveness Christian People's Party bets on also in politics, but it's actually the way that this government has sucked 13 billion kroner into tax bills that the Bondevik government had adopted in the last period. So it's going to give NOK 50 billion more to well-being over this four-year period. In the nations on 22 November, one could read that the Christian People's Party now sees that they have more impact on their policies by cooperating with the red-green parties. I want to challenge the representative of the Christian People's Party whether he thinks it's right to give tax relief instead of getting more to his core values, for which he can be supported by these government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e719	As far as tax policy is concerned, I would like to say that what we need is a tax policy that builds on the fact that we have a well-being in the future as well. I think the Labour Party really agrees with that. That's why it's probably also the case that many of the tax reliefs that the previous government contributed to are still in place, probably because they were quite well thought out. Not least, it's about making sure that we have a business that works, which makes us get more tax revenue by pursuing a tax policy that underpins value creation. I'm not as concerned with the rates as Klungland is. I am concerned that we have a tax system that contributes to the community, which means that we have a healthy business life, and that also gives a good distribution, so that the Community feeling, as we need in Norwegian society, can also be there in the years to come. If Klungland agrees, we're on the same team.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e726	The representative of the Seven places great emphasis on aid and poverty in his speech. It's good and affordable. What surprises me then is that at the same time he says that their alternative budget is a budget for the future and future government cooperation – next time in position. It doesn't look very much like what the Syverse sees, if he looks over his right shoulder. But what surprises me more is that today's labour shortage situation offers a unique opportunity to get more of those who have different problems in the labour market, from social security to work. The Christian People's Party stresses in its financial position that work is the safest way out of poverty, and proposes increased appropriations for labour market measures to people with physical or mental disorders. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party proposes to cut the ordinary labour market measures. Is not the Christian People's Party concerned that unemployed people with other types of problems that make them not first in the jobseeker's queue, for example. Immigrants and the elderly, will be helped to get into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e733	What is the case in our alternative budget is that we spend more on labour market measures than the government does. We stress it differently, not least because we have been at hearings and actually heard what it is like out there in reality: what is needed now is to provide labour market measures that are more adapted to those who have a long-term need for assistance. So we have a different device than what the government has. We strengthen those who need long-term assistance in the labour market, and then we go down slightly on the ordinary labour market measures. In today's situation, I think that's a proper priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e738	Much has been done, but there are still major challenges in the care of the elderly. Now it's good words to hear in all parties. But it doesn't keep up with just good words, it's act that counts. The Christian People's Party agreed with the Right against the historic promise of DKK 5.7 billion more to the municipalities in 2005. But now the Christian People's Party has finally begun to get its eyes up, and it sees one in the year's budget. One sees that the Christian People's Party and the Right have different devices in their municipal arrangements. My question is then: Is there any chance that the Christian People's Party will once again be able to choose a cooperation with the Right, a cooperation at the mercy of the Advance Party – when one remembers how it went the last time, how the municipal sector and a worthy care were harmed during the previous cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e747	It was probably a history description that must have been taken out of the Central Party's debate structure and not the Christian People's Party, so here I think I have to correct certain things. Firstly, when the Bondevik II government took over after the Stoltenberg government, unfortunately the arrows in the Norwegian economy pointed downwards. It was absolutely necessary to tighten up and make sure that we got a business that worked, so that we could strengthen the economy in the long run. This meant that everyone had to contribute, including the municipalities. Then there was growth in the municipal sector beyond the period. But from the Christian People's Party we have said that in a situation where it was tightened up in the municipalities, it was enough that it was hard for some. That means that when we now have a good start on the economic growth that came to the end of the Bondevik II period, and the current government really enjoys, there is room to bet on the municipalities. The representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, may also agree that the expectations that the current government has created in the municipalities are becoming a problem for the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e756	I know the Christian People's Party as a responsible economic party, like all parties in this Chamber, with one exception. In its extension, the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget shows that they are concerned about a heated construction market. As a consequence, the Christian People's Party will dampen the construction activity by cutting the allocation to State Building by 225 million. kr. At the same time, they want to increase the construction activity in the municipal sector by a much larger amount than demonstrated by the tightening. There they propose to extend the investment framework for the upgrading of churches and school buildings by SEK 1.5 billion. How does the Christian People’s Party connect this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e761	With regard to the appropriations for State Building, there are often major projects, which, for the benefit of others, can now be mitigated in an exhilarated economic situation. With regard to the appropriations relating to the loan scheme for municipalities that can be used for upgrading schools and churches, we are talking here about smaller amounts, which local businesses can often provide. I think it's a better priority than what the government has proposed, in the economic situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e768	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e771	The red-green government prioritises the Community's thinking and correcting market forces more strongly than a government in which the Right is involved. This provides better opportunities to develop balanced conditions among people, to safeguard national interests in our natural resources, to keep Norway clean with clean water, clean air and clean soil, and to safeguard the interests of the coastal and rural populations. International solidarity is also better served. However, many voters who are behind the red-green government are impatient to see this stronger through practical measures in their everyday lives. That's good! The state budget of the year is close to the expectations of welfare improvements created in a high economic situation. For the Centre Party, it is particularly gratifying that maritime workers now receive social security rights equivalent to those women employees have had for many years. Our monetary policy should be as open, stable and predictable as possible. It will support fiscal policies by helping to stabilise the development of production and employment, because in monetary policy we have a demanding balance. In Norway’s Banks Monetary Policy Report 3/07, the interest rate line was lowered in relation to the previous report by half a percent to 5 1/4 pst. in the second half of 2008. For the Central Party, the policy implications for young people versus well-off elderly people and the framework conditions of competitive business will point to the fact that we do not pursue an economic policy that contributes to a further increase in the interest differential between our trading partners. The former U.S. governor Alan Greenspan has been in Oslo talking about the mortgage crisis in the United States. This was an accident that was just waiting to happen, said Greenspan about the financial crisis that is now raging the world's banks and has also come to Norway in four Norse municipalities. Greenspan used the term euphoria, well-being through stimulants, about what has happened. The euphoria of human nature builds up and is sea-enhancing. There are prices and expectations that are completely without anchor in the underlying realities, markets are turning around – it is sudden – the euphoria is replaced by fear. It's just, we can't do anything political about it, is Greenspan's understanding of society. We have little chance of taking the bubbles up. They don't crack until the speculations come," said Greenspan. This was his social vision. Many opinion-making residents in Norway have an abundance of easy-to-use money. It's typical of the behavior. This is money that has its basis in the power of vast natural resources, where the right to rule combined with previous long-term social organisation and investment makes us harvest where others have sown. The Norwegian people are at this privileged international, and we have a great responsibility to sweep for our own door in the climate challenge. That's how we should be different countries. That's how we could, with greater weight, claim to speak with a seaworthy voice. The world needs seaworthy voices. Unfortunately, focus on financial management, share prices, luxury investments and welfare improvements for the better-advanced have become even more central as our wealth of money has increased. So in what forums is this dominant vision created? The production of today's current views in the country takes place in Oslo, by a relatively limited number of people in important positions, named Oslo Elite. This view is characterised by a single focus on the share price, little contact and understanding of what is going on outside the country. Their perception is based on the opinion of the financial centres – the financial centres internationally. The Central Party is convinced that this government must intensify its efforts to continue our economic political tradition of correcting market forces, so that the social negative impacts of economic shocks that give fear and insecurity to business and people most can be avoided. In this work, stricter economic laws, enhanced credit supervision and a more long-term building economic policy are important keywords. Today’s Norwegian welfare level is based on the political will to build production-based activities many decades ago. Willing to take control of the development of oil resources has made us seas have a strong oil industry and not just a branch country for foreign oil companies. The willingness to adapt the framework conditions for international shipping to a global situation means that we have a maritime industry and a maritime industry that is unique in the world. Look at the map where Norway is located, and we see Norway's dependence on mastering life at sea and sea and thus being an important maritime nation with a profitable, modern shipping. The active industrial policy of the past has been based on the fact that we are a small country, that we have natural advantages, national competence and a desire to maintain a decentralised housing structure. We are now facing a globalization that is stronger than ever. It presents us with major challenges, and an active policy must then be put in place to prevent the weathering of traditional competitive industries based on our natural resources or our location. The issue of taxation for shipping companies – both the transitional arrangements for the shipping companies within the current shipping tax legislation and the future regime – has been a complex matter for the centre party. The government is now establishing a competitive company tax model for the future. This is the Central Party pleased. The centre party is concerned that this is an important district industry that also provides the basis for land-based activities in many coastal areas. The maritime industries are among our strongest business environments — we have international advantages. It is important for the Centre Party to contribute to ensuring this for the future as well. With regard to the transitional arrangements for the shipping companies covered by the current company tax legislation, the Centre Party has addressed this matter with solutions other than those proposed by the Government compromise. The majority of the Central Party Group have taken note of the Government's view of shipping taxes based on the political situation we are in. The Storing Group has therefore accepted the existing proposal. The centre party subscribes to the Government's proposal for changes to the power plant tax. At the same time, we will stress the stated objective of Regenningen of a stronger commitment to new renewable energy with a total target of 30 TWh in increasing renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement from 2001 to 2016. There have been clear recordings, including: from the Small Power Association and the Land Association of Energy Enterprises to changes in plant taxation. We in the Center Party are responsive to these thorough recordings. That is why we support a majority comment on the 2008 budget, in which we ask the Government to provide a broad assessment of the incentives for increased environmentally friendly deployment of hydropower and other renewable energy in the revised 2008 national budget. In particular, the majority calls for feedback on whether there may be conditions that prevent a socially sound upgrading, renewal and construction of renewable energy installations. In our situation with high economics and high oil revenues, our greatest enemy and the next generation are the greatest dangers of our historylessness and introversion – historylessness in the sense that we forget that there are past long-terms and thoughts for future we today reap and build on our well-being, and introversion in the sense that we see only our own little breath and forget that in the short and long term we build our well-being on interaction with the world around us based on the industries that we have the advantage of operating with, and further develop the industries that are necessary to provide our citizens with security during changing political and economic cycles. The state budget of the year is close to the expectations of welfare improvements created in a high economic situation. It is a responsible state budget for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e811	For approx. two weeks ago, the Minister of Transport and Lundtigen's party, Liv Signe Navarsete, was in charge of the Modum Center Party. Through a look-up in Drammen's Official Journal, it has been found that Navarsete, who recognised that the Progress Party is quite right in saying that more use of oil money on the road is a good social economy. I can read the following from Drammen's Official Journal: ‘For use of oil money on the road’ And on the other hand, ‘Minister for Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete, gives the government’s archival, Carl I. Hagen, the right thing to do is to bet on transport more wisely than to pick up oil billions abroad.’ [[Sp]] I wonder whether the Central Party spokesperson on fiscal policy agrees with this. In this case – with the assurance that our county, Buskerud, actually has 24 of the country’s 100 most fatal roads, and that the Buskerud roads have a aftermath of about 20 years. 2.2 billion kroner – why don't Lundtigen push more to increase the appropriations on the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e828	As I said in my post, many voters in the red-green parties are impatient to ensure greater commitment to the Community idea – not least to shrink the country, to ensure that the prosperity becomes good. We see that for those people who live in areas where you are dependent on modern communication, this position is independent of the party you vote for. There are many people in SV who believe exactly the same as Life Signe Navarsette, based on the everyday life in which they stand. The priority of the Government is to meet the national transport plan’s requirements. Governments focus more on the availability and upgrading of roads – simply filling asphalt in the holes in the roadway. It's no secret that we in the Center Party are impatient to move on here. We are far from achieving what the government's supporters expect of us in the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e835	The representative Lundtägen has, on a few occasions today, euphorically referred to the effects of the market economy in the United States and the housing bubble there. But it's also euphoria in the Center Party. It is a grass-roots uprising against the Party's management of the tax increases for small-scale power plants. It is a little more homely, a little closer, a little more important for the reindustries of the countryside and for the development of renewable and environmentally friendly energy in this country. Now the Center Party is behind a note that we are going to investigate this for the future. But this is really simple, this is about taxation. You don't have to look for incentives. This is tax. Why does the Central Party think that it is such a very good idea to increase taxes on small power plants by reducing the limits on when you have to pay rent taxes on land?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e842	It would probably have been an advantage if the Right Party had also concentrated more on international economics and international relations. With our open economy, what's happening internationally is of greater importance than most people are aware of. That's why I think it's a little unwise to suggest that having an international look is not central to the situation we're up against. But then back to the home. In the ranks of the Centre Party, there seems to be no good proposal to increase the taxation of small-scale power plants. It has become clear in the statements that have come from our people. The comprehensive solution that the Government has chosen is a solution that has led to very strong professional input from both the small power companies and the national association of energy companies. There is something the Central Party will continue to work on towards the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e849	The centre party has had a commendable commitment to living communities throughout the country, an engagement that the Christian People's Party fully shares. We agree that living small businesses are a prerequisite for a living community. Two specific cases for the benefit of small businesses have been safe rights for self-employed persons in connection with pregnancy and childbirth and inheritance tax claims against family businesses that are passed on by the next generation. At the first point there is some progress, but at the second point, inheritance tax, nothing happens. In the context of the revised national budget, the representative, Lundtigen, expressed his opinion as follows: ‘The point of relief from inheritance tax is a central point, and the Soria Moria Declaration states that it is necessary to facilitate the generational shift in family holdings. It is a point that is being followed up.’» Now that point is clearly not followed up. My question to Lundtägen is whether he can say something more today about how this promise is actually to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e861	We are happy to receive a certain credit, at least in relation to seagoing business women. Let's take it with us. In the case of inheritance taxes and housing occupied by inheritance permits and enterprises which take over the inheritances, this is a very important theme for the Senterpartiet. We have to keep track of what is required in time. The centre party is not foreign to think in the direction of conditional inheritance tax exemptions when heirs acquire houses or property to continue. It is an exemption with conditions close to the heart of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e868	In the debate following the presentation of the State Budget on 5 October, the representative Lundtigen said the following: ‘The State budget shall be achieved through a thorough treatment in Stortinget. A lot of people come to our hearings to say their own about the budget. There are good people in the respective government parties who have not had the opportunity to go into all aspects of the budget, and there is even an opposition to be listened to. Against this background, the Central Party’s Majority Group will keep the possibility open for changes to the next year’s State budget in the Stortinget.’» Is the Central Party satisfied that they are not actually heard by the other government parties in such an important case as the taxation of small power plants in the districts? And not least, the government has listened to all the reasonable suggestions from the opposition, for example. on more and better measures to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e878	That's a perfectly correct quote. The consultations carried out have taken more account of the governmental parties than before, both in the form of comments and in the form of positions reflected in the House today, of future budgets. In addition, there is a change that is more fundamental than economic, namely that the budget has changed by 100 million. kr in relation to themes on which the opposition and the hearing parties have given significant attention. The power plant tax and what is the matter there, I have explained in detail. There will be a new round of the framework conditions for environmentally friendly power generation from waterfalls and other energy from renewable sources in the context of the revised national budget. I would encourage everyone to commit themselves to achieving the Government's 30-TWh target in increased production by 2016. It's a very ambitious goal, which it has to speed up to realize.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e889	You get a little breathy when you listen to Lundtigen's speeches from the pulpit. A romantic post-war history, planned economy and global development are intertwined. I'll come back to the ground. In 2000, there were an estimated 70 000 farmers in Norway. In 2005, that figure was reduced to 48 000. Today the number is even lower. This has clearly been done by the Centre without the help of the Advance Party. Estimates show that the number of bureaucrats to manage these is slightly below 48 000 farmers, i.e. 5,000. that it is approx. an administrator per year; Nineteen pawns. This number has not been reduced, although the number of farmers has been reduced by 30 pst. in the last seven years. Does the Centre Party believe that Norwegian agriculture is appropriately organised? Does the Central Party believe that Norwegian peasantry needs 5,000 bureaucrats to manage its business? And is there something that fits in a globalized world, about which Lundtigen is so concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e898	I thank you for the certificate for romance and international relations. In the case of farmers, which are a little bit more grounded, and which I have a certain prerequisite to talk about, and supervision in this regard, I can assure the representative Tybring-Gjedde that it will soon cross all borders in relation to the supervision and requirements of those who are responsible for food production in Norway. There can be no doubt that the Center Party stands for a line where you have to control in general, not in detail. It allows us to simplify a lot of things. In this room and in other rooms, unfortunately, there is much too much security for it to be fun to have. That's the morality of a number of things. It's nice to have a little bit extra. There's someone who's going to pay, and there's someone who's going to live with it. It is a major problem for us who work in practice in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e906	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e909	It would have been tempting to continue where Lundtigen left off. It would have been a lot to introduce that debate to someone who has opposed the last simplifications that have been done in recent years, but I'm going to focus on a bigger race, namely the budget. Never before has the Storting treated a government budget with as much money at its disposal as what we are going to adopt today. Only from 2007 to 2008, tax revenue increases by DKK 35 billion. A very high oil price allows us to spend more oil money than ever before, and still keep well below the 4 pst. limit of action. High-ranking revenues provide great opportunities to invest in the future. But good times – not least adventurous good times, which we must say we have – make particular demands on political priorities. I believe that what gets the majority today unfortunately shows that there has not been a willingness to do so. The government's proposals to the government budget are without a clear political course, where everyone gets a little bit more than last year, and the environment might be a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit. The majority use of 100 million. From a little more housing support to the fight against wolf in Norway does not help with the main impression of a majority who will not give priority to the main challenges but who have chosen a minimum common multiple. It is of direct concern that the depriority of higher education and research continues. The left is very disappointed that last year's cut in basic appropriations for universities and higher education is not being corrected. The initiative in kindergartens, full-time school and fruit and vegetables is at the expense of higher education, research and necessary measures to recruit more and more motivated teachers. I think it should be obvious to everyone that it is completely wrong to extend the school day when there is a lack of teachers. The majority clearly believe that there is no problem, without any solution being given to this challenge. This does not apply only to primary school. In the evening post last week, we could read that high school students are being cheated for hours because more schools are cutting the number of teaching hours to save wages. Unfortunately, this does not come as a surprise. The teacher's coverage in primary and secondary schools has not improved in the last two years despite the beautiful promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. There are important elements in the next year’s budget for the environment. The cautious increase in green taxes is good, but not enough, and we do not get the necessary promise to meet the climate and environmental challenges. The support for renewable energy production is too weak and the Left lacks schemes for investment aid for pilot projects. In addition, the entirely illogical proposal to increase the taxation of small-scale power plants comes. I believe that the Vice President of the Norddal Center Party, Egil Berge, is quite right when he pronounces the following to the Nation last Friday: ‘One thing is to sit in government with SV and Ap, but I don’t have the word that Sp agrees to increase the tax on small power plants. We have a choice in two years, and if the Senter Party does not oppose this tax increase, the party will lose many voters." The centre part is obviously taken in its most erogenous zone. The left is disappointed that the majority does not choose to make everyday life easier for entrepreneurs and self-employed. The so-called improvement of the social systems of self-employed people appears to be a bluff: the government and the majority of the population later appear to be improving the social arrangements of self-employed people by giving them a right to birth grant from 1 July 2008. At the same time, the bill is sent to the same person through an increase in the social security charge. The government's taking in $95 million. NOK, and give back only 60 million. SEK to the self-employed in 2008. In several budgetary procedures, the Left has proposed that self-employed persons be entitled to maternity benefits, maternity benefits and sickness benefits during pregnancy without increasing the social security charge. We're repeating this today. Unfortunately, the result is that the government parties fail again. It is disappointing, because the Left believes that better social arrangements can provide greater security and motivation for more women to start up on their own. The Left is pleased that the Government continues to make a heavy effort to combat global poverty, but at the same time there is reason to be disappointed at the efforts made at home. It is mildly alarming to see government parties openly accusing each other of not wanting to give priority to measures to combat poverty, as we have seen between the SV and the Central Party in this budget proposal. Unfortunately, poverty is definitely not eliminated by this budget either. It must be odd for the party that thought that poverty could be eliminated by a pen stroke, to experience that almost the entire opposition is proposing to allocate more money – in part much more – to the fight against poverty than what was perpetrated by the government itself. The left is a socially liberal party. It means strong faith in man's creativity, creativity and sense of responsibility. The left always puts the individual in the center, not groups or classes. All people are equivalent, but none are equal. And everyone has to have the same opportunity to use their abilities to the best of their own and of society. In the 2008 alternative government budget of the Left, this is expressed primarily by increasing efforts on education and research, on environmental and climate action and on poverty reduction. In each of these areas, the Left proposes an increase of more than DKK 1 billion in excess of what the majority of the population through the government parties think is sufficient. The left re-prioritises about DKK 12 billion in its 2008 alternative government budget, distributed approximately equally across the tax and tax systems and the expenditure and revenue sides of the State budget. The left proposes the same structural oil-corrected budget balance as the Government, but has an overall structure that will function marginally – not to make any point of it, less expansive due to a net tax and tax relief of about 750 million. kr. The left will have more taxes on consumption and behaviour harmful to health and the environment and less taxes on work, and we propose in our alternative budget such a conversion within a framework of approximately NOK 3 billion. The left is disappointed that the Government has not taken this opportunity to make a stronger change in the tax system in a more environmentally friendly direction. Something is done, much more could have been done. The time of such a conversion is definitely now. Both the fact that climate problems are the greatest political challenge of our time and that the Government should keep the overall level of taxation unchanged indicate a far more offensive transformation than the government's prudent change of some taxes. The left proposes further changes and conversion in the tax system of a further DKK 3 billion. Among other things, the Left suggests both adjusting the entry point of the top tax and increasing the minimum deduction. We propose an increase in the tax base, a strengthening of the BSU system, an increase in depreciation rates for industry, a strengthening of the TaxFUNN system and a right to a deduction for self-employed workers. Knowledge is one of the most important Norway to bet on in the time to come, and such a commitment means securing future value creation, democracy and formation. The left will therefore have a record stake in school, education and research and propose an increase in funding for school, education and research of about DKK 1.7 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. The main focus of the Left's option is to strengthen research and higher education by just over DKK 1.2 billion, but we also propose years of competence and recruitment plan for teachers. Norway should be a driving force in international climate change work, and we should have a leading role in developing a good, climate-friendly society. Norway’s credibility depends on reducing its own emissions, contributing to the development of technology and demonstrating that it is possible to decoupling healthy economic developments from greenhouse gas emissions. Although the Government has tried to produce its own investment in the climate and environment as ambitious, the 2008 draft budget does not contain the necessary priorities to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions as monks. For this reason, the Left proposes a substantial increase in environmental and climate action of a total of DKK 1.75 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. Among other things, the Left proposes increased focus on climate and environmental research, increased efforts on public transport and rail, improved oil protection, various renewable energy and alternative fuels measures and a separate contribution to precursor municipalities in the climate field. All human beings must have freedom and a worthy life. The welfare state shall contribute to this, as the citizens' solidarity system for justice and security. The basic premise of a good life must be there for all, regardless of the inequalities we are born into, and the coincidences with which life itself affects us. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that in health and social policy we need to give more priority to those who need it the most, and not lubricating thinly to everyone. This requires political courage and will. Social inequality in health is a growing problem and is closely linked to poverty. It is very important to combat poverty that health and treatment be given to those who too often fall outside the health system. Drug users need better treatment and needed help. The left proposes an increase in measures to reduce poverty by just over DKK 1 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. The main activities are care for the disabled, public-funded pay, health care for parents with children with disabilities, care for the homeless and increased housing support. The alternative budget of the left is, in my view, the most radical budgetary option in the area of responsible budgetary frameworks that we are dealing with today, and that is the option that is best suited to the challenges facing Norway as a nation. We give priority to the future: research, education and school, radical action to solve the greatest challenge of our time – the environmental and climate problems – and a targeted effort for those who need it the most. I will bring this up with the suggestions that the Left has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e961	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e964	The left is opposed to the transitional regime proposed by the Government for the reindeer industry. The left wants one to deal with more matters and that new proposals should be presented to the spring in the revised national budget. The most special thing is that the left will first vote against the proposal. Nevertheless, the party will use the vast majority of the deposits – a total of DKK 1.2 billion – in its alternative budget. In this case, there is a question of taxable taxable persons. Decisions should therefore be taken this year, not next year, if they are to have an accounting effect in 2008. The representative Sponheim is a very experienced politician who needs to have a lot of system insight. I would therefore like to ask: How can the Left explain the logic behind the course of action chosen by the party in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e973	As I understand it, the government parties will ensure that this decision is taken this year, and it will be de facto a budget that will also make this money available for next year. The left has an opinion about some other distribution or priority of this money. But what I think is important is that the government has put the Storting – and not least the opposition in Stortinget – in a difficult situation with this proposal. There have been authoritative and strong signals to the Government, not least through consultations, that this can be unconstitutional, and then the Stortinget is put in a difficult situation. The decision of the magistrate could be a source of justice in future legal proceedings that may or may be very likely to come. Playing the Storting and this tax system into so much uncertainty seems irresponsible to me by the Government. As a result, the opposition has asked for a different approach to the revised national budget. This could be done, for example, by: is in force for 2009 and subsequently subject to arrears.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e980	The left shall be in favour of the proposal to accept 500 more quota refugees, but the back of the medal is not so honourable, for the Left actually proposes to cut the aid to the world's poorest by 34 million. kr, while the lot does not fully comply with the Government regarding the withdrawal from the Norwegian kingdoms. The left will cut the aid to Latin America, with the strange reason that it will weaken poverty orientation, but the fact is that poverty is screaming and the environmental challenges are formidable in several Latin American countries. The budget also has a clear profile in relation to Latin America – social development, environmental measures, biodiversity, sustainable and democratic use of natural resources, support for indigenous peoples and poor women. So my question is, is it that there are indigenous people, biodiversity, poor women and workers in Latin America who are going to pay for the very good proposal to accept more quota refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e987	Let me first say that the very small cut that has been made on the development budget regarding the perhaps more political bet on SV's political friends in Latin America, I do not think that should be seen as anything but a clear political mark. It is quite right that money should be used to increase the bet on quota refugees, but it is clear from this that we could imagine that aid and development funds could have been used differently. So when Mr. Ågot Valle asks me this question, it gives me a very nice opportunity to raise this as a challenge in relation to Afghanistan and the need for civil development assistance to Afghanistan. I saw the representative on TV strongly criticise that we are not doing more of it, but it is a criticism that goes right into SV, which has the Minister of Aid and the Minister of Finance. We know that the two ministers are on the way to prioritizing this great sum of development funds, so if SV wanted, we could have given more priority to development work in Afghanistan. But political friends in Latin America are obviously higher priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e994	Sponheim was in the midst of the lack of teachers in his post, and the Left takes the aim of strengthening the public school. It's a goal center part. My question is whether it is right to take 6,000 teachers out of school to complete the academic year that the Left has promised, in a situation where we already lack teachers, and where we obviously have to fill up with 6,000 new ones. In addition, a good part of the containment that we know needs to be in place if such a proposal is to be implemented. The second thing I was going to ask is the net pay system for seafarers, which the Left is proposing to remove in its entirety. Is it a good greeting to all the seafarers of the country that they are not really wanted and that they cut all transfers and support to ordinary workers, while we are in favour of the new taxation system for shipping, which in practice protects capital in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1001	On the first point, the representative Borten Moe is quite right in saying that the Left has the most offensive educational and teacher policy in this Chamber. It must be seen in a complete way, including: in the case of investments in increased access to teachers through teacher training and the increased competence of teachers, inter alia. through the possibility of training at regular intervals. There are hardly any groups who need to modernise their knowledge all the time as teachers, because they have the important job they have. So it's right that the left has taken on the rather tough, unpopular job that's saying that $1.8 billion to let a professional group get away from paying taxes is completely unreasonable, when we actually take the Prime Minister's words seriously and say that the biggest money is going to go to the big things. In other words, SEK 1.8 billion is paid to bartenders on the Danish boat, while fishermen who are outside Greenland in storms and storms for days should not have the same advantage, and in a situation where the country lacks labour. This is bad politics, and the Left has the courage to say it. Otherwise, I would have liked the representative to ask me a little about small-power taxes, but he didn't!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1010	I'm not going to ask about small power, me either! Over the past six months, we've been given three clarifications, I'd say, on the bourgeois side, which has given a picture of what the situation is like there. First we got the clear message from the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, that they will not support a government where they themselves are not involved. Then Sponheim set up the degrees agenda here earlier this fall by giving clear notice that the Left would not support a government where the Progress Party was present. And lately, we have also received a clear message from Jan Tore Sanner from the Right that it is completely out of date for a new bourgeois government to conduct an irresponsible economic policy. Sponheim set the agenda, as said, and had some quite good, reflected assessments of the situation on the civil side a few weeks ago. How does he now assess, after the various alternative budgets have been presented, the situation on the civil side for months and years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1017	Let me first say that I think the 2009 election result is going to make Norway a minority government. In any case, all Gauls suggest that today's majority disappears, and I'm pretty sure there won't be any other alternative majority rule. Then we get a minority government. When you've been through a budgetary procedure like the one we're completing today, I'm pretty sure there's a lot of people who want to make fun of us until we get back a minority government and get some policy, speed and dynamics back into this, and even better budgets for the country. In this context, I am probably assessing the budgetary position that is now in place, so that it highlights what I have said earlier this autumn. To me, there are some characteristics of what I call civic policy. One is a roughness and a propensity towards people who are different, live differently and look different, and the other is a long-term one dealing with climate and environmental challenges, and it's about being sober in money use. If there is uncertainty about what we tolerate in the long term, the precautionary principle applies in these areas. I am sorry, I would say, not eye contact with the Progress Party, and that is why it is probably clear what I have said throughout the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1025	I could not cheer myself up after hearing Lars Sponheim's reply to Reidar Sandal in relation to the shipowner's cavalry. If there's something that usually characterizes Lars Sponheim, it's that he has a little bit of a stomach measure. That is why I wonder about the shipping tax: three of the opposition parties have a common comment in connection with the debate we are going to have on Thursday, where they are very clear that they do not feel completely safe on the scheme and cannot participate in it, but ask the government to come back with a new scheme. So in this case, Lars Sponheim doesn't have a stomach measure, because he actually spends NOK 1.2 billion on the money that he asks the government to come back with a completely different scheme for how to pull in, and preferably come to a compromise with the shipping industry on how to do this. Then my question to Lars Sponheim is simply: 1.2 billion kroner – does Lars Sponheim have any thoughts of passing on to the Government about how to get this done?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1030	Now it's like that de facto decision is taken on Thursday, which means that this will be money that's in the government budget for next year. We have said through this draft budget that we believe that a greater proportion of this could go to the environmental fund. But it is also the case that in this situation we should have liked to be safe on the Constitution in order to be able to agree to this, because there is a clear signal in it. We wish we could be sure that this is not unconstitutional, in order to be able to take this tax out. The fact that the majority of the government in advance of what is most likely to be a court case can be a matter of law, actually grumbling at the fact that a beg Government is safer on the constitutionality of these proposals, I think it's a little strange. We just heard the financial spokesman for the Centerpartiet, Lundtigen, say that there was a majority in the Centerpartiet's big group who agreed to this, and I understood that he himself belonged to a minority. So there's going to be a lot of uncertainty about this in the future. That uncertainty should be eliminated by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1035	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1038	It's been a few weeks since I stood on the pulpit in Stortinget and presented the draft budget for 2008. What I was going to do in the debate here today was to try to raise my eyes a little bit and see what has happened, what kind of political debates have been going on, what kind of counter-budgets the budget has got, and how the political picture is now drawing. There is very often much discussion in the Storting about the game and the spectre of politics, but here there is a very good opportunity to go in and look at what the political differences really are. What's very striking, when you've been following Norwegian policy for many years, is that the agenda for the political debate is very changed after it became a red-green government at the government shift we had in 2005. What this budget has been primarily criticised for is not that we conduct too little of the Right Tax Policy, and not that the course is wrong, but that we do not do more about what is the Government's own main areas and priorities. It's about, for example, on poverty, it's about environmental change, it's about education, that's the things that the red-green government is already giving priority to. The outside cry from the opposition is therefore not ‘more of the old’, which they got with Bondevik and a Right-dominated government, but ‘more red-green’. I think that's quite interesting. I also think it's pretty interesting to look at the Right Alternative Budget. For the next year, the Right proposes to distribute taxes of the order of DKK 2.5 billion. It is after the red-green government has reduced the tax level at 2004 levels. There was 13 billion kroner in difference between what the Bondevik government proposed for 2006, and the level of taxation we have today. Now the Right agrees with ten of the tax austerity billions that we came with. At least it has to be that if you're going to take your budget seriously, and see what they actually prioritize, you can subtract $10 billion first. I think that's very interesting. There has hardly been any budget where right as a party, which has ideologically fought for tax credits, has brought about such slight changes in proceeds, i.e. in terms of scale and level, of fiscal policy. And then the right and right sides of the Storting are perfectly predictable about the distribution effect of the tax proposals that are. Here there is a very clear difference between a red-green direction of taxation plus the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, Right and Left. It's about the very clear grips that we're doing to make sure that some of those who have the most money in Norway are contributing to the community fund. It's also about the fact that most people have to see that they pay taxes according to their ability. That's why we've said that now shares should be valued at 100 pst. and not 85 pst. in the taxes on wealth. That's why we've tightened up the so-called 80 pst rule, and what we get in, we've used to raise the bottom line in the property tax. Over two years, 270,000 people — who paid taxes on wealth in 2005 — now do not pay taxes on wealth in 2008 and half of them are pensioners. That is a very good policy of distribution. So if we switch it to the 100 richest, we've increased the tax from our government for the 100 richest in Norway by 3.3 million. kr a year, while the Right and Advance Party on the other hand, which will remove the entire property tax, would provide the same people with a relief of 9 million. kr per year. There's a very clear difference, and of course we have to keep working so that we get a better distribution profile. The right hand side and the propulsion part give some relief at the bottom, but it's very modest. If you have one child in kindergarten, you get an increased bill from the right of $2,200. If you have an income of 500,000 kroner, you get a tax bill from the Right of 1000 kroner. You're going to be negative. But that's okay now – a clear direction, while they're 3 million. kr and over that gets a significant boost in what is our proposal for 2008. And those who still walk around and believe that the Progress Party is for the most people, should just just focus on what is tax policy, and see what kind of crowns are spent on top. As regards the opposition's handling of the shipping tax, I have to say that I think it is very interesting. The Progress Party is very clear in its conclusion on the question of whether they are opposed to the proposal that these tax credits to be provided by shipping companies should be repaid over ten years – in a modest way, 2/3 – linked to the proposal for a very favourable tax regime from 2007 onwards. But the Right Party of the Christian People and the Left spend the money – NOK 1.2 billion. Lars Sponheim says: Jammen, this would have been decided by the big crowd anyway! Yes, it is a pragmatic and nice way to approach this, but it is not possible to create a big constitutional debate on it. And finally, it's also like that, and that's why this is presented so thoroughly to the Stortinget for the first time in law, that the Stortinget itself has a significant responsibility to assess the fundamental law issue around this. So I'm very happy that both Right, that spends 800 million. kr of this, and the Christian People's Party and the Left, who spend 1,200 million. kr of this for 2008, has such a pragmatic approach to this very issue, because it gives us a good and balanced tax proposal compared to the shipping companies. It also has a large distribution effect, for 40 of the 100 richest people in Norway have their income from the shipping industry. Then to poverty. I'm glad that the parties in a row and row are dedicated to combating poverty. But based on the various packages to combat poverty that lie around the state budgets, it's hard to see that there's net bet we're talking about, because many of these packages are financed by moving on other money that's important to those who have little, for example. on labour market measures. And then it's right that the representative of the Christian People's Party, the Seven, says that it might be right to discuss the device on the labour market measures. But it's hard to see that you don't hit anyone, especially what we're doing now in relation to a long-term unemployment guarantee, and how we're really going to be able to unload people. It is very difficult to see that there should be some gross amount of bet against poverty when moving on money that is also important for combating poverty. So to another observation that I think is very interesting, and that's the climate in the environmental debate. It is not that it is always popular to add on the cost side, but it is about how the matters relating to the polluter pays principle are now handled by Stortinget. I had thought it was much more controversial to increase the diesel tax by 20 cents, increase the fuel oil tax and increase a little on the CO2 tax on aircraft than what it actually was. I also remember how the petrol pressure was on Stortinget around 2000, when the government was pressured to reduce these charges with a total impact on the state budget of NOK 3 billion per year. years, which could otherwise have gone into good environmental action. Now the climate is completely different. Now we have the support of the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to do this. Yes, it is even such that they want to go further in some areas, and there has also been no storm in the big world among ordinary voters in this context. It's a challenge for us to take, because it's about when it comes to environmental and climate issues, there's a lot of people who want to be involved in reorientating consumption and twisting the effort, not just by adding a few dollars, but also to see what the sum has been like. It has been an advantage that we have been able to make these tax exchanges within the framework of 2004, because then there is the device on this that people can see that we are primarily looking for. In this environment and climate world, the Progress Party is on a completely different globe. But it is interesting that even the Right proposes to increase the fuel oil charge in addition to what we have charged. Only one reflection at a time, and this is about assistance. The Progress Party is raging Norwegian aid, but also Right cutters significantly in Norwegian aid. The left has some small cut that also has a political direction and profile, which Sponheim was in. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, goes the opposite way. Through their proposal, they now want to meet the 1 % already from 2008. I think it's very interesting that there's so much gap between the opposition parties in terms of both tax and combating poverty out in the big world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1069	The President will again remember that when the red light goes out, the speaking time is over. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1074	Of course, in a government budget that spends over NOK 770 billion, a lot of this money makes sense. In a number of areas, of course, there are some areas where the Progress Party disagrees with the priorities of the Government. One of the things I want to get into is the fees that the government chooses to increase. The Council of State was in on some of this at the end of its article. When you increase taxes, you might say that it's a little bit fairer, because you pay taxes based on how much you make, or how much money you have. When you increase taxes, it hits quite blindly. If you have little, earn little, an increase, for example. of the diesel tax, frame harder than it will do for one who earns a lot and has a lot of money. That is why I am somewhat surprised that the government chooses the tax snipers that have been added up to the last two years. Does not the Council of State consider it problematic that, in the case of tax increases, it may be particularly difficult to reach those who are at least in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1081	One shall always have the distribution effects of proposals, which may be well justified for other reasons, such as: environment, in the back of the head. It does not necessarily mean that one has to change the proposals that it has, in order to underline the polluter-pays principle. But that might mean that someone needs to lighten other taxes and taxes to compensate for it. The representative, Leirstein, drew too simple a picture. It is not that those who run the most in Norway are those who have the lowest income. In fact, the poorest of us rarely have their own car. Those who drive the most are not the people who live in the districts, even though they have much more use for cars than many of us who live more centrally. In fact, high-wage men in Akershus are the most affected if you set up fuel taxes. But we're going to do both, and that's why there's been some relief in some fees and other ways in the budget, but Leirstein's perception of who is primarily affected by increasing environmental taxes is not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1088	Let me first say that I have rarely heard as much customs duties on taxes as in the contributions of the Minister of Finance. If you were to follow her rhetoric, I should also like to thank the Swedish Finance Minister, who has retained about 15 of the 24 billion kroner that Right gave in tax reliefs during the previous period. My question, however, is one of the challenges facing the Norwegian economy – labour shortage. Kristin Halvorsen has gone in on the weekend as party leader in SV to maintain today's AFP order. We know that today's AFP system is a system that helps eight out of ten 66-year-olds are out of the labour market. As Minister of Finance, Kristin Halvorsen talks a lot about the need for more labour and the need to get more elderly people to work longer. My question is whether Kristin Halvorsen, as Minister of Finance, agrees with Kristin Halvorsen as SV leader in maintaining the AFP regime, or whether she agrees with the Prime Minister and the bourgeois opposition in the Stortinget that we need a renegotiated AFP system that can motivate people to stand longer in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1095	The President would point out that the term 'tax duty' is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1098	President, if I quote Sanner, can I say 'tax duty' one more time? Just a little line on taxes first. Interestingly, the Right Tax level is now DKK 10 billion above the budget they proposed for 2006. Interestingly, when Sanner is going to decorate himself with the fact that it is tax law that has given us increased tax revenue – and he says what we have achieved since 2005 in increased tax revenue – it was in a regime where the red-greens had actually increased taxation. So it's not like the dynamic tax policy works as Sanner says. Then to AFP. I am shaken by the Right proposal in the State budget regarding the handling of AFP. It's a declaration of war to the social partners, and if the bourgeois had government power now, it would have been full fire and total intersection. Our national government has joined the main points of the Joint Union in the further debate on the AFP. It's going to be a very demanding matter, not just for the Government, but for the whole Storting – but starting there as the Right proposes, is the recipe for it to go completely mad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1108	It was exciting to hear Kristin Halvorsen as the main political commentator looking down on the public, how it stood here in the Stortinget. And when it comes to intersecting the social partners, I think we've really listened to an expert. Because it's not more than a year since there was a full intersection between the Government and the social partners – so that's what the opposition will learn from. I most wanted to challenge the finance minister on the big lines, which she herself said she was busy with. I noticed that the Minister of Finance said that she had not believed that the proposal for taxes and charges in the green direction was going to be so little controversial – and she said that there is a challenge for the Government. For me, it indicates that the government has done too little. You've challenged too little. Is that what the Minister for Finance would have wished to have done more in this budget, in the light of the climate policy challenges we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1115	It would never fall into my mind to look down on the Storting. Because I have a long speed from here, and I am very aware that it is the Stortinget that is our contracting entity. But what I have a very strong wish for is that we might get the debate more politicized in the future as to what the parties in the opposition are doing, and how they relate to each other in relation to what is the main priorities of the Government. That is my wish for this debate, and not least for the environment debate. It's very interesting that all the former government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, support the fees we've proposed, and go further. And it's interesting what reactions we've got from most people, because it's not long since there was a full guy of one little sneeze when it came to this kind of charge. I see it as a challenge, but I think it is closely linked to the fact that we are able to distort the tax system in such a way that we also reduce some clear taxes or charges, in order to change. Soria Moria also says that we need a more consistent and green charging system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1122	The Minister of Finance has received a good invitation when work on the 2009 budget starts after Christmas, to really address the tax change, with the experience that has now been made, and also the suggestions that the Government has made. My question will be to increase the limits on the payment of the employer’s fee and the payroll obligation for non-governmental organisations, as proposed by the Government and which were also promoted, quite identically, by the Left in a proposal for a representative in spring 2006. It was completely shattered by Minister of Finance Halvorsen, who said the following: ‘Any additional support to non-governmental organisations should be granted as a government grant rather than extending existing, or introducing new, exemption provisions in the tax and tax rules. The extension of existing specific arrangements for non-governmental organisations would also run counter to one of the objectives of the tax reform on broad tax bases and non-discrimination. [[...]] Although individual changes or exceptions may seem small in isolation, such changes over time will create a complex tax system in which the overall effects of different specific schemes are difficult to see through.’ This was said by the Minister of Finance, and my proposal was totally slaughtered. And then Kristin Halvorsen comes with the same suggestion now. What's happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1134	What has happened is that the government does not necessarily change politics on the basis of a question from Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1139	But it's being slaughtered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1144	Yes, but it's possible to think a little bit too. I think it is very important to make noise, liberal and flexible arrangements for non-governmental organisations. It is a matter of finding the balance in which they have living conditions, while small businesses around the districts also have living conditions. This is why much more has happened in this field in terms of the taxation of non-governmental organisations than has happened in many years with the previous government. These changes in the employer’s fee and the limits on how much you can pay without reporting it had not been changed in 15 years. So I'm very pleased that we've managed to adjust these limits. But I haven't necessarily thought, nor for the future, even though I think that the representative Sponheim has a good point, to change the government's policy right there and then.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1151	At the early stages of this period, the Minister of Finance was more occupied with the fact that the poor would come to a better conclusion that the poor would be richer. Now I think the rhetoric is going more and more towards the rich – that the rich are going to be poorer, and that this is the way to ensure better smoothing. I also have to say that creativity is high with the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance when it comes to pointing out new groups of rich people who are going to be skinned more. The last thing that stands in the state budget setting is the introduction of a source tax on pensioners moving out of the country, who want to spend a few years in retirement, for example. in Spain. They are to be skinned with an extra tax. At least it's planning on doing it, and there's work going on to do it. My question is, what is the background for this distribution, and what time can we get it on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1158	Firstly, I think that the Progress Party should breathe, relax and wait until proposals actually come before they enter into debate on them. So no one has proposed any changes at this point, and no conclusions have been drawn. So I would suggest that you gather forces for this or possibly something else you might be annoyed about later. I'm not going to pre-shoot and say when we come to a conclusion on this question. It may still take some time. There are some considerations about what is fair and fair when you live abroad, and how to sort out the tax rules. But I would like to come back and present the conclusion of this work at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1165	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1168	The election campaign in 2005 was a lot about which way we wanted Norway to go. Should we continue the large-scale privatisation of the Bondevik II government, with the good help of the Progress Party, add up, or should we invest in building up the welfare of the public sector? Should we continue a policy of large tax havens to those with the greatest incomes and the greatest wealth, or should we bet on a fairer distribution? The red-green parts promised a new course for Norway if they won the choice. The working party would end the starvation of the Norwegian municipalities and the large-scale privatisation of public services. For us, it was more important to invest in building out the public sector than to give tax relief to the richest, as the previous government did. The Labour Party promised to invest more in health, care for the elderly, schooling and kindergartens. And we would have a fairer distribution policy. From today on, the Red-Green government has been working to deliver on the election campaign. The budget we are discussing today is a new example that we have received a new course here in the country after the government change two years ago. We're now betting on a fairer distribution, and we're betting more on solving our common tasks. Our bet prays for fruits. Local authorities are again able to ensure local welfare and service provision. The initiative has given more to schools, more to care for the elderly and more to kindergartens. We are on track to reach the target of 10,000 more added to the care sector during this ageing period. This means that we get better care for the elderly in our country. There is also strong growth in the activity of Norwegian hospitals. Never before have so many been helped with their diseases or plagues. The emphasis on education also begins to produce results. Free textbooks in secondary schools will be in place. Fruit and vegetables in the youth ball are in place. From next fall there will be several hours in the children's ball. There is also a greater focus on research. 350 new scholarship options will be created next year. For the first time in history, we now have a government that delivers what they promised on the subject of culture, and the goal of full child care is soon to be achieved. Unfortunately, it is in the nature of politics that one never quite reaches the goal of the perfect society, a society without fault and lack. New needs will always arise and new challenges will arise. Although Norway is a very good country to live in for everyone, most of them, unfortunately we still see examples of older people who don't get it offered. And yet we see that there are kids who don't get space in kindergarten. Yet there are people in health queues, and yet that is not the standard they should have. But with the budget we adopt later this evening, we are taking important steps in the right direction in all these areas. The government party promised a new course – and the government party provides a new course for Norway. As a rich country, I believe we have a duty to share our wealth with poor countries in the world. Next year we saw a new Norwegian record in development aid, both in dollars and in percentage of gross national income. These funds help to create a better and more worthwhile life for thousands of people in the world's poor country. These funds also help to create a safer value for all of us. The government party will also spend a lot of resources on climate action both at home and up to next year. This is important and correct. Unfortunately, everything suggests that climate change is well under way. As late as the last week, the United Nations Panel on Climate Change re-issued a report confirming this development. It is therefore urgent to launch the fight against global climate challenges, and the climate meeting in Bali next month will be decisive for developments in this area. Norway is doing very well. The unemployment rate is the lowest in over 20 years, and the employment rate has never been higher before. Many thousands who have been outside the workplace have now got a job. It's positive for society, and it's positive for them. High employment increases service and goods production in society and gives more people a living income, which in turn reduces the number of poor people. Low unemployment is the best means of combating poverty. In addition, the government has a massive commitment to targeted, concrete measures against poverty in Norway. The order situation in Norwegian business is very good, and demand is very high. A lot of businesses are struggling to get enough qualified people. This can be seen not least in the construction sector. Some scheduled projects need to be postponed now. In part, few offers have been received, and the offers that have been received often have doctors 30-40 pst. of planned costs. This should be a caution to all of us. One of the most important tasks of politicians is to keep the economy in order. We have to avoid a running interest rate and a very strong dollar rate. There have been no more than four years since more than 20,000 industrial workplaces disappeared in one year due to high crown prices. We have to avoid that happening again. That is why it is good that the Government in its draft budget has kept a little behind on the use of money and uses less than the policy of action that is strictly open to. The only party on Storting that doesn't seem to take these signals seriously is the Progress Party. Once again they put on billions for all good purposes. The fact that this is a risk of Norwegian economy and jobs is one thing, but with the Progress Party's alternative budget, one also shows for everyone that there is no overall opposition to the Government's government budget. The four opposition parties' budgets are shattering in all directions. Right will use $1.6 billion less than the Government. Progress batch will cost NOK 15 billion more. Right will reduce aid. Christian People's Party wants to increase it. The Progress Party will raise more than 21 billion dollars in tax and tax bills, while the Christian People's Party and the Left will keep the tax level around the current level. When looking at the alternative budgets from the opposition party, there is a good reason why they have not agreed to a common policy or a common responsibility. While the opposition is arguing about what should be their options, today we have a government that delivers what they promised in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1210	When you listen to Olav Akselsen, you get the impression that not only is it going well in this country, it's actually going almost too well with the red-green government. So there are no limits to self-crustness for a budget that is flawless and perfect. I think maybe both the Olav Aksensen and other representatives of the government parties could have behaved a little more humiliating, because the voters have largely not fully discovered this perfect budget, as I see it. But my question to Olav Akselsen is quite different. With great zeal, many of the representatives of the government parties in this debate have tried to focus on the extent to which there are now real approximations between the non-socialist parties. I'd like to ask Olav Akselsen to reflect on how he experienced the situation between the three red-green parties exactly four years ago, two years before the 2005 big shot. What, then, did it look like in relation to the collection, course and direction of the alternative budgets of the three red-green parties, and where could one trace the will and ability of cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1217	First of all, I just want to repeat what I said, that there is every reason to boast about the budget that has been presented today. All of them, the vast majority of areas in society are getting more liberal, and the supply is getting better next year. When it comes to the question from the Progress Party, I understand that they are trying to cover up their dissatisfaction with the other parties by asking questions about how things stand with the other parties' cooperation and cooperation. What is quite clear is that today's bourgeois parties stand miles apart from each other, which is not least reflected in economic policy, where we can see an example of the fact that the Progress Party is increasing the promises by billions of dollars, while, for example, the Progress Party is increasing the promises by billions of dollars. Right will hold still. There was never the corresponding distance in the previous period between the parties that currently rule. Same thing: what's real is that today we have a government that failed in the internal mess at some point is to deliver things and things to turn Norway in a new direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1224	I understand that the representative Akselsen really thinks it would have been hip as luck if it had been the Workers' Party's alternative budget or SVs or the Center Party's that had been the basis four years ago. Then I think he should read them one more time, for here it was promised quite a lot that he deeply disagreed with. The representative Aksenssen began by basing himself on what was said in 2005. The representative Akselsen was an active campaigner in 2005. He traveled around the country and the beach with a message that one should have a more active industrial policy. He promised an industrial power regime. He promised better conditions for business in the districts. Yeah, the list of what you said was long. Now, when you can sum up, after three state budgets and two years in government, you can see that in almost one area you have fulfilled some of what you said at the time. The industrial power regime is as far away as it's ever been. We see that small and medium-sized enterprises in districts are being drained of equity through increased taxes on wealth. My question to the representative Aksensen is: Is he happy that he did not become Minister of Industry, so he did not meet himself so often at the door?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1233	I am in charge of the policy of this government. I am also in favour of the efforts made in the previous election campaign to raise industrial policy higher on the political agenda, and not least to get a debate linked to the unlikely passive industrial policy of the previous government. The best way to measure the functioning of industrial policy must, of course, be to take account of the business situation. It is therefore true that the order situation in the Norwegian non-competition industry has never been better than he is. Employment has increased by over 150 000 over the course of these two years, and there have been important changes in industrial policy towards more active industrial policies, including: in the tourism, marine and maritime sectors. This is why there is a basis for saying that a new government also led to a new course in a more active industrial policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1240	The representative Akselsen is a good politician with, among other things, experience as Minister for Oil and Energy. Therefore, Akselsen is also well qualified to evaluate a remark from the government party on the increase of taxes on small power plants. The note reads as follows: ‘The majority call on the Government to provide a broad assessment of the incentives for increased environmentally friendly deployment of hydropower and other renewable energy in the 2008 Revised National Budget. In particular, the majority calls for feedback on whether there may be conditions that prevent a socially sound upgrading, renewal and construction of renewable energy installations.’;» You can read between lines. After listening, for example to the representative, Mr Lundtigen, I am left with a strong impression that the Government Party actually felt that the proposal to increase the taxation of small-scale power stations was rather delayed, but since there is a government that is putting this forward, they cannot reject the proposal. Therefore, they give their own government a new chance to see that this was stupid, and to try to find something better to come by. The question is: does the representative of the Akselen think this is a correct interpretation of the comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1252	Now, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn represents a game that is perhaps more used to "interpreting the text" than the Worker's Party, but it does not mean to read between the lines; one should read what is written here. What is quite clear is that we in Norway have very big ambitions to get more renewable energy. We need to increase the permissions for this purpose. When there are claims that some of these tax changes may be negative, I think it makes sense for the Storting to get a review, so that we have a full overview of the effects of the different measures we have in mind to achieve the objectives we have in common with the Christian People's Party at least, that we should get a higher production of renewable energy in Norway. That's what's meant by this remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1257	The left is concerned with urban environmental and collective action. But what is the reason why the Government has weakened the incentive system for public transport by expanding more without increasing resources at the same time? Then there will be less money for cities and urban areas, i.e. a down-priority of and thus a lower collective offer in many cities, and a down-priority of the environment. What is the reason why the Government has done this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1262	It's clearly a goal for the government party to increase the number of people who travel collectively. I don't know. shown by the bet on the railway, where the permissions have been increased by 50 pst. during that two-year period. It is also such that with a better economy in municipalities and municipalities, there is also an opportunity to stimulate increased activity in public transport. So our answer is that we want a higher section of public transport, and we've put economic resources on the table that make it possible to achieve such a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1267	I would like to repeat my question to the representative Sandal earlier today that I did not receive an answer to. The accent claims that the use of money by the Progress Party leads to inflation, higher crown price and grief and misery for Norwegian industry, because we spend NOK 15 billion more than what the Government does. He would like to think so, even though the Central Statistical Office believes the opposite. It is shown by Ot.prp. No 79 for 2006-2007 that the Government plans to purchase 143 million shares in StatoilHydro in order to raise a holding of 67 p.m. It equals 25 billion kroner, which the government is going to pump into the Norwegian economy. It turns out, then, that when the government does not have to go through the state budget, more money can be used – when the purpose is important. I record that the purpose of buying shares in StatoilHydro is so important to the Government that they can go beyond the rule of action and outside the state budget, so that they do not cost this purchase. What comes from the fact that the government can pump new 25 billion DKK into the Norwegian economy without any impact on the economy, while when the Progress Party spends 15 billion DKK primarily on tax bills for those with lower and medium incomes, this has disastrous consequences for the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1274	First of all, it's not that the Labour Party alone is skeptical of the use of money that the Progress Party puts up. In this room, there is no party that is in the vicinity of supporting the policy of the Progress Party in relation to money use. So this is one of the issues that will be interesting in any future negotiations between the bourgeois parties. The Norwegian state budgets with money that we use for various good purposes. But in addition, the Norwegian state has invested a lot of money in wealth, and we have jointly held that wealth out of the state budget. Whether this property is in Statoil axis, in other shafts on the Norwegian stock exchange or in other types of wealth in other countries, that does not affect the economy of Norway. That's why it's going to be completely wrong when you make it like these money's going to be injected into the Norwegian economy. This is a property placement that does not change the use of money in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1281	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1285	This has so far been a very predictable financial debate – on the one hand this little Tuppen and Littlemother-like draw between the sitting government and the previous government parties, where you constantly accuse each other of not having done enough, we-pulled-on-more-then-they-made, food beds, etc. I think, with all due respect for many of the parties in this room, that a very large proportion of the Norwegian people are getting tired of that kind of debate. People are more interested in hearing what each of us has to do with the challenges we face now and in the future than discussing who spends more money or less money on each budget line. In this respect, the Minister of Finance is actually quite right when she says that parts of the opposition are calling for more red-green policy and not a new course. It's interesting to observe through this debate. The other side of this debate, which is also very predictable, is the common front towards the Progress Party – and thus also towards a quarter of the population. I want to underline it: Every time you attack the Progress Party – the terriblely irresponsible party that wants to solve part of the challenges we face – you also attack a quarter of the population in this country. As a result, some of the self-appointed economists in this room could have done little to subdue themselves and showed a little greater respect for the parties' differing positions and approaches to how to solve the societal challenges. That's what the Progress Party is doing. We have an alternative recipe, an alternative solution, when a lot of the pieces in this room go more or less in the same direction. I would like to dwell a little bit on the question that Christian Tybring-Gjedde has raised on two occasions in line exchanges. One of the major claims all the way is the irresponsible economic policy that the Progress Party is alleged to be pursuing. According to the majority, there is inflation in the use of oil by the Progress Party, which de facto means investing in infrastructure, in lower taxes, in allowing people to live better by their own economy. But you think it's not going to be inflation because the government is using people's money instead of using them themselves. Demanding other people's hard-earned money is absolutely okay. It's responsible when the government spends other people's money, but letting them use them themselves is irresponsible. According to the majority, there is of course also inflation in investing in infrastructure, in its own future value creation, but there is no inflation in investing 25 billion kroner in StatoilHydro shares. I noticed that Olav Akselsen said that this was only a relocation of wealth. It's an argument I can have the sense of, but then I'll challenge Olav Aksensen on the following: By the fact that the state doesn't buy these shares, someone else will buy them, and these others will presumptuously be ordinary people in the Norwegian community. Of course, it will affect the use of money in this society if people don't invest 25 billion dollars in shares and maybe use them to buy new kitchen machines. I just mention it, as a contribution after Olav Akselsen's total explanation of how money spent affects the formation of inflation in society. State Council Kristin Halvorsen is quite right in commenting on this debate, that there has been little focus on the big lines. Maybe we should discuss more about how to solve the huge maintenance system that has built up in this society, both in terms of building mass and in terms of infrastructure, where there is a huge amount of billions of dollars in aftermath, which you don't seem to have an answer to how to solve now and in the coming years. Strangely enough, one of the richest countries in the world can't even afford to take care of its own cultural heritage. It seems strange. In other words, everything should be the same, despite our enormous structural challenges. And where will it be by the Minister of Renewal? The title itself should provide an enormous focus on renewing and changing Norwegian society through structural intervention. I have not yet seen this council deliver a single matter of significance to the Stortinget that affects the Norwegian economy in any direction whatsoever. In other words, we need to discuss the big lines, and it has been totally absent so far in this financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1314	There is pressure in the Norwegian economy, and one of the biggest problems today is the lack of labour. We see that this now results in an increase in prices and wages. This should be a warning for most, and most in this room take it seriously, with the exception of the Progress Party, who only sweeps with extra money and in that way stimulates demand further. The fact that the Progress Party does not want to see the economic reality is enough. But it's one thing Norway's second largest party has to decide, and that's the political reality. And in the political reality, there is no other party that is in the vicinity of economic policy The Progress Party will lead. Right has categorically stated that it is not appropriate for them to conduct irresponsible economic policies. In other words, if the Progress Party is to enter the government, they must abandon their economic policies. Should not the Advance Party then have been so honest as to say that these are the money and the areas they would prioritize if they came into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1321	That is precisely why the Progress Party is the only real alternative to the sitting government. We dare to represent a completely different course in many important matters, and we have solutions where the Government is fambling. So for the lack of labour: if Olav Aksensen had read the alternative budget of the Progress Party, he could have been inspired. For we have taken more than any other party a lot of action to free up labour, among other things. by improving the efficiency of the public sector, by reducing public administration, which is meaninglessly high in relation to the proportion of the population we have. Now we have just received a proposition for the Storting about increasing the appropriations for waiting wages. So you do that at a time when you're at the same time expressing that there's total labour shortage. What does that mean, other than cementing the current structures instead of freeing labour to make it more useful in those parts of the economy that actually need more labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1330	I don't think of myself as a seagoing economist. I think of myself as a seafarer who knows a lot about Norway, and not least about District Norway. I never stop wondering about the proposals of the Progress Party on agriculture. So now we're going to have to reduce agricultural transfers by $6 billion. I have been the rapporteur in one of these agricultural municipalities, Namskogan, and all farms would have been abandoned with the proposals of the Progress Party. The same would have happened in the municipality after the municipality from Finnmark and all the way down to Vest-Agder. One thing that will really change Norway is if the Progress Party comes into position to implement its agricultural policy. And it's not just depopulation we're talking about. What about food preparation – not least the fact that we have to buy even more food from abroad, which leads to even more transport and even more environmental problems? My question to Siv Jensen will be as follows: Does the Progress Party believe that it is serious with its proposal even if you come to the position – that you should reduce agricultural transfers by NOK 6 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1341	If Inge Ryan believes that more imports of food leads to greater problems for the environment, he should do everything he can to end the border trade, by reducing alcohol taxes and a number of other things, because there is a not insignificant transport that occurs across the Swedish border as a result of sky-high spe­cific charges. So to the agricultural policy: Just the same argument that Inge Ryan is now using about the dangers of Norwegian agriculture if they have to undergo a conversion was used when the fishing industry was subjected to a severe reduction and withdrawal of the subsidies that were once there. The fishing industry is still one of Norway's most important industries, one of our largest export industries, and it does so without subsidies. This means that we have managed to create a system of effective, competitively neutral instruments that allows Norway to be a world-class fishing nation. It is quite obvious that much of the facility we have in today's agricultural policy is old-fashioned, backward and definitely not so that it leads to innovation and innovation in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1348	After reading the Progress Party's alternative budget, I wonder if the party at all sees any connection between the voluntary and the professional actors in cultural life. Similar to the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party is in favour of voluntary teams and organisations. The Christian People's Party believes that culture has a self-esteem and will therefore strengthen the budget in addition to the government's proposal. The promotion party proposes cutbacks in cultural construction, musical purposes, language, literature and library purposes, museum, film, stage art – almost DKK 1 billion will cut into the cultural sector. Many voluntary teams and organizations have great pleasure in professionals from professional cultural life. The party of progress would, with its proposal, if it was agreed, strangle a part of the cultural life of Norway. The cultural spheres must be driven in good faith, actors from the Progress Party have said. The professional gives inspiration to the volunteers. We need both the top and the width. The Progress Party sees it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1355	The Advance Party fully agrees with the Christian People's Party that culture has great self-esteem and enriches our everyday lives. The question is: what gives us the best culture – that the Stortinget controls every detail of Norwegian cultural life through the allocations, or that we are actually willing to pay what it costs? I don't know what it's like with the representative Molvær Grimstad, but I'm at least – with pleasure – willing to pay for a great cultural experience if I'm allowed to keep a little more of my own hard-earned money, without Kristin Halvorsen and others first taxing me hard and then handing out the money as they think it's right to subsidize culture. I think that both I and most other people in this country can be able to assess what we experience as a good culture, and let our money go there, instead of being dependent on big business representatives who think they are better qualified to assess this than the inhabitants themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1365	I want to follow up on the question from the representative Inge Ryan from SV on agriculture. It was a question that the representative Jensen did not answer very clearly. She talked more about fish than about agriculture. The Progress Party therefore proposes to cut the agricultural appropriations by a total of SEK 7.1 billion – or 59 pst. It shall take place over one year. It will reduce the income of agriculture by about 10%. 75 pst. immediately. When we know that agriculture is a capital intensive industry with long-term investments, we know – as the Progress Party also knows – that it will of course also have consequences both in the agricultural industry and in all other neighbouring industries. It will result in a race of bankruptcies, not only in the agricultural industry; banks, suppliers and processing links will also have problems, and there will not least be problems for the food industry. Is the Progress Party still interested in Norwegian agricultural production? What instruments will the Progress Party propose to ensure Norwegian agricultural production?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1374	With the Central Party in government, both in this government and in previous governments, we have had a permanent decline in Norwegian agriculture. Over a number of years, there has been a significant decrease, but still greater use. So this has happened to the Central Party in government, not to the Advance Party. The proposal of the Progress Party is quite clear in the substantial subsidies. But as opposed to the Center Party, we are to treat the farmers as they are, namely self-employed people who need good framework conditions. So we combine that with removing a number of laws, regulations, prohibitions, prohibitions and restrictions that prevent the individual farmer from making independent, good choices in relation to developing his agricultural property. We propose to wind up a series of laws and regulations that make it difficult to produce and develop the properties, which make it difficult to trade the properties. In fact, we are proposing to introduce real property rights also for agricultural properties, which we thought the Center Party also agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1381	The draft budget of the Progress Party is a tradition in relation to the non-socialist parties in investing in higher education and research. We think it is good that the Progress Party has joined the bourgeois tradition of investing in this. But much is missing. The government says it stands for a so-called cultural promise. Now the Right has more to culture than the Government, the Christian People's Party has more to culture than the Government, the Left has 150 million. kr more to culture than the Government. But the Progress Party will cut almost $1 billion in the cultural budget. Culture, higher education and research are interrelated. It's about building the nation, it's about investing in the future, in libraries, in museums, in taking care of the language, in investing in the formation of a society – a long bourgeois tradition for which the Left has been a champion in this room since 1884. The Progress Party has now realised that it is important to focus on higher education and research. When will the Progress Party realize that culture is an important part of working for the creation of a society at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1393	It's not often you get praise from the left in this room, so you have to listen carefully. It is that the Progress Party allocates significant amounts to Norwegian cultural life in its alternative budget, and in particular we give priority to the areas we consider to be important, including: to preserve the so-called formation, of which the Left is so concerned. But let me turn this around. It's not like the Left is the party that manages the truth in all areas. I noticed that Skei Grande expressed it so that there was a large part that was missing in the alternative budget of the Progress Party before the Left could say it was satisfied. Yes, in our opinion, there is a large part that is also missing in the alternative budget of the Left before the Progress Party can say it is satisfied. But in some areas you can see the same direction at the Left as at the Advance Party. I think it would be much more constructive of Skei Grande to be concerned about focusing on what unites, instead of on what separates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1402	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1405	When the government joined a little over two years ago, I said in the debate on the government statement that I was afraid that this was going to be a government for the lost opportunities. It was a government that came to the covered table, but it was a government that did not make a government statement to exploit the good economic situation in which it was up, to further develop the Norwegian society. I had hoped that I could have said that I was wrong. But two years and three state budgets after that debate, I just have to say that I see that what I said was a correct description of what the government is doing. One thing is that we can see that this is a government that repeatedly commits promises in important areas in relation to what they promised in the election campaign in 2005 – some of them I mentioned in the succession with parliamentary leader Akssen in the Workers' Party earlier – but what worries me most is not that there is a breach of promises by the Government, but that steps are being taken in the wrong direction. This is a government that seems to have mixed up chat and action. The active state has become the most active chat. The world's best climate policy has become the world's most inflated climate rhetoric. What you should have had was a government that used the opportunity to act on the important and big things. What we think is important from the Right is that we should invest in good times for the future, invest so that the good times can continue, and the next generations can deal with their challenges better than we do in our time. Investing in the future involves investing in road, rail, infrastructure. But it is also – and perhaps above all – about focusing on the basis of value creation in the future, the basis on which each person is able to grasp and develop himself and our society, namely in terms of knowledge and competence, both through primary and higher education. Our experience is that the government is moving in the opposite direction. Retirement in higher education and research has now become a mere miscarriage. - Yes, because it keeps going. Yesterday, the statements were made that there were major problems at the University of Oslo in implementing what was the great promise in higher education and that was fully funded by the previous government. Now it's on the quality of teaching at the country's largest university. At a time when knowledge is more important than ever, the Government chooses to give priority to human beings and knowledge and development. In a time when our society has had no more money to spend, the future of this government is not willing to bet on. What we want is to make it more profitable to work, more profitable to save, more profitable to research, more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs, and to own and run small and medium-sized enterprises. What the government is doing is to make it less profitable to work, less profitable to save, less profitable to research, less profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs, and to own and run small and medium-sized enterprises. It's going backwards into the future. It's not meeting the needs we have in the future. We need a government in this country that is willing to introduce those who stand on a little extra, who dare to realize good ideas, dare to create something new, and all those who make an effort every day to create their own future and to play a role in the future of other people. We need a government that does not, on the one hand, say that we need capital in Norway, a government fund of just over 2 billion kroner, while at the same time extracting equity from all the small and medium-sized enterprises of the country so that their own ability to develop and invest is weakened. Those are the envy arguments used by this pulpit today. When we talk about some of us giving so-called more tax relief – which in practice means that we maintain the situation as it is today for those who own Norwegian businesses – this government is picking up more and more of the investment funds that these companies would have to have in order to build new equipment, invest in research and development and be robust jobs for a period that may not be as good in the future. The government doesn't do much for everyone who's out of work. The government's got plans, it's got projects, it's gonna be big news. But it does too little to help the 700,000 people who are out of the labour market return to work. The Court’s budget prioritises the future, prioritizes the return of more people to work, prioritizes knowledge and education. At the same time, we are able to bet on those who are the weakest: significantly more on poverty, on drug care and on rehabilitation that would increase dignity for many of those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1429	As has been said from the pulpit here before today, full child care coverage is one of the most important issues for the Government. But it is at least equally important for the many young children’s parents in the country. We heard in the NRK news on 22 November that five right-hand-controlled municipalities top the list in terms of having long waiting lists for the kindergartens. Oslo, Bergen, Bærum, Sandnes and Ålesund are jointly responsible for over half of the nursery cows in this country. The red-green government has granted more than NOK 6 billion to get full babysitting. They have been able to do this in several municipalities, but not in these right-hand-driven municipalities. Will the Right Central take an initiative towards its rapporteurs and ask them to give higher priority to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1436	I'm very happy that people like living in right-hand municipalities so much that they move there a lot. What this list that's been in the media, above all, says, is that people are enjoying themselves and want to move to a right-wing municipality. It's also the municipalities that have the highest population growth, and that gives some of the challenge. But it is not those who have the largest queue in relation to the number of children in the same age group. We have not chosen to do as SV obviously does – to spread the numbers out as it suits them. We have chosen to count on the ten largest municipalities in terms of how many children are in line, in relation to how many children actually live there. It gives you another picture. Yeah, my hometown still has a problem. They still struggle with the fact that Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen was the town councillor and not built kindergartens until 2003. But then, suddenly, a significant amount of SV and labour party-driven municipalities appear on the list of the ten municipalities that have the longest kindergarten queue compared to the number of children. I guess that's the most interesting thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1445	I guess we're all happy that unemployment is now very low, at just over 2 pst. We know that we have someone left who hasn't got a job, and we're very busy getting a job because Norway is screaming for a job. I have been working in the labour market movement for some years, and I know that this last group is demanding to get a job, because for different reasons they need a lot of qualification. They need arranged arrangements that last for some time, so that after a while they may have the opportunity to enter a normal job. Then we have what we call action spaces. Right cutters 3000 action posts in their alternative budget. I am surprised that a capable politician like Erna Solberg — one of Norway’s most capable — actually accepts that 3,000 people should be prevented from getting to work, which would be in the best interests of Norwegian society. What is the reason for cutting 3,000 action sites in the right?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1454	First of all, I would like to thank you for being a good politician. It's always nice to hear that. I would like to stress that the Right is increasing the number of job-impaired areas of action, for those with the most difficulty. In addition, there are several parts of our state budget where there are measures for specific groups that are among those with the greatest challenges. Some of the criticisms we have made against the Government in recent years have been that instead of really taking on the task of helping those who have the most difficulty, the government has chosen to make all the measures easier, unless follow-up from the companies to help them out into work. So it's just the easiest cases to pass on. We believe that our total would get significantly more back to work than what the Government's plan does. But it's related to what we do in terms of integration, care and the disabled. Our response rate would then be slightly different, but twisted towards the most disadvantaged groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1463	Like the Progress Party, the Right proposes a significant cut in agricultural transfers, a cut of approx. EUR 1.9 billion for agriculture in 2008. This involves approx. 20 pst. in one year, and it is quite clear that it will present major challenges for agriculture. The right is concerned with a more market-oriented, large-scale agriculture. In a situation where the world market has changed food prices, we see that it will also affect the situation in Norway. Is the right to increase agricultural prices in Norway in order to stimulate the increased supply of Norwegian agricultural products in the Norwegian market?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1470	The right agricultural policy, and it should be convenient for the Centre Party, is in amounts closer to the Centre Party than the Advance Party in terms of what we grant. But it's something smaller than what the Government grants. This is because we believe that it is possible to release farmers in Norway from the violent regulatory regime that is at both size and activity and how to organise agriculture. I think, for example, regulating the number of participants or the size of the cooperative in the years to come helps to ensure that fewer will be farmers than those who would have liked it, in particular in District Norway. I know a valley in More and Romesdal in particular, where you didn't get to co-operate between ten farmers that long ago, because it was far above the code. This is likely to result in no particular agricultural activity again. Our idea around this is that we have to release the farmers in several areas, and we will make it profitable that way. So it might be that the food is getting more expensive, especially if the quality is getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1475	The Labour Party and the Right stand one by one in ideology and in how we set up our state budgets. But we have always had it in common that we believe that one of the most important challenges to the budget is to pursue a defenceful economic policy. Right is the party that I have perceived has been most positive in getting to a civil gathering, and the party that has been least reprehensible to the Progress Party has been invited to get to such a collection. When we read the budget setting, it turns out that the parties that are far from each other on the issue of money use are the Progress Party and the Right. My question to Erna Solberg is about Right Find that the Progress Party's economic policy is a good basis for a new government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1483	Let me just confirm that I agree that in many ideological areas, the Right Party and the Labour Party stand absolutely far apart. Our starting point is that we're going to create a society that provides opportunities for everyone. It's about increasing the room for action of the individuals and families in our society and preparing them for the future, while I'm recording that the slogan of the Workers' Party is that everyone should be included, that is, that someone defines what people are going to be in, not that you should give room for individuals. So to that question that I think I've answered the Workers' Party from this pulpit repeatedly earlier. I understand that you're very concerned about it. We are still going to believe that the government in which we are going to sit should conduct a responsible economic policy and a responsible economic use of money. A responsible economic policy is about both how much money you spend and how you manage your use. The most responsible thing in the Right's setup, except that we spend a little less money by not having an expansive budget as the Government has, are actually our 31 measures to get more labour and more people to work in this country. It should be the Workers' Party taken as an inspiration to do something, instead of just discussing how others' cooperation is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1490	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1493	When you travel around the North, and so far in Europe, there is a great deal of interest around the new government in Norway, which is seen as the most radical government in Europe. We're still getting questions about how we've got it done, and what kind of policies we have, etc., etc. So the next question is, are we able to deliver? When we meet the same colleagues later and say we had great ambitions, can we also carry out the ambitions we had? That's the answer. We have started a change of course in relation to what was done in Norway in the past, with the previous regime, by stopping privatisation, focusing more on Community solutions, etc., etc. So you ask, are you in the goal? I don't think you should ever be in the goal. I think you should always be on your way to Soria Moria, because politics never goes away. There's a constant job towards a goal where things actually come along that makes you have to adjust the course, changes that happen both nationally and internationally, so that politics is always on the way. But we're on our way to the right goal, direction is right. That's what's important. Let me mention two-three examples. The biggest change that has happened, at least since I started to follow in Norwegian politics, is that what SV and Left had as a whole for many years, namely environmental policy, is now the most important thing for all parties on the Stortinget. Everyone says that the environment is the most important thing. That change has only happened in a few months. That's why we get a change in the tax system that favors what is environmentally friendly, and those that pollute have to pay more. It's a clear choice for this government, and it's going to continue even stronger in the years to come. You get the cleaning of gas power plants, and not enough that you get it, we're also developing a technology that hopefully other countries in the world can also use. That's when it really matters to the environment, if this technology can also be used elsewhere. Then things happen in relation to fair distribution, especially in terms of unemployment and the fact that we have so many fewer unemployed people. It's not just the government's fault, because it's about the economics, but it's also the government's fault that so many jobs. We know the importance of having a job and a job to go to, what that means for both the feeling of the sea and the economy of people. We have a significant change in the tax system, not least in the case of property taxes, where the wealthiest have to pay more to the community, while those who have the least contribute less. And we're going to keep doing that. Then we have the bet on children and young people. The fact that municipalities have a much better economy means that the opportunities to invest in children and young people are far greater than ever before. We see that there are slightly different priorities in the municipalities. One of the challenges of the municipal maritime administration is enough that some municipalities do not prioritize school and kindergarten as much as the government would like, but at least they have the opportunity. Both through the municipal economy, through the introduction of primary schools for several hours, and through the cultural promise, there is a significant commitment to children and young people, which we will continue for years to come. The Minister of Finance said earlier today that what is surprising now that we have changed the course in a direction that we are going to work even stronger with in the future is that the opposition is asking for more of that. They are asking for more investment in the environment, more investment in fair distribution, more investment in Community solutions and more investment in schools and children and young people. It's a pleasure, because it's clear that the government is very excited about its policy here in the Storting. We see this best in relation to the Right, which was the party that in the last period was very clear that they wanted tax relief over Community solutions. Now they have gone back strongly on the fact that there are tax havens that are the best. The best thing is to bet on community solutions, says the Right now. They have reduced their desire for powerful tax havens for people. But we still see that there is a big difference on the device. The right and, in particular, the Progress Party will have tax credits for the rich, while those who earn the least will have to pay the most. I believe that this government, both when talking to people here to countries and when people ask us abroad, can say clearly from the fact that we had a radical government statement, and that we are in the process of following it up. We've turned the boat in a direction we believe in, and we're going to continue with more policies in the areas we've started working on in terms of justice, the environment, children and young people and a number of other fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1515	I think I'll try again. I tried to challenge the SV's fiscal spokesman as to why you don't cut any more and remove all the customs walls, customs duties that producers and farmers in the developing countries have to pay when they sell their goods in Norway. I would like answers as to why this is not done, and why there is no support for the proposals of the Progress Party to set up a fund for Norwegian private investment in high-risk projects in developing countries, where Norwegian environmental technology can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1520	Customs protection is one of the main instruments of Norwegian agricultural policy. The fact that a country has its own food production policy is incredibly important for several reasons. The most important thing is that we produce food that we can deliver to our own population. Norway is now about the same. 50 pst. seafood with food, and that should be a minimum. It's not been so many years since we were closing the borders because of foot-and-mouth disease and jealousy around Europe. It was then just before closing the borders with Norway. This means that we need to have a food production in Norway so that we can be fed. It requires that we have customs protection, so that we actually have the opportunity to produce food with the cost level that is in Norway today. Secondly, it is important in relation to housing that we have an agriculture, because it is a support bar in very many Norwegian municipalities. That's why we need import protection, so we can produce food in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1527	Over the past six months, the government has promised more in almost all areas on behalf of its local politicians. They have pledged more to drug addicts, more to sports, more to health professionals, more to rehabilitation, more to culture, more to libraries, more to schools, better social assistance rates, more to homeless people, better medical coverage, more to care for the elderly, more to maintenance of churches, schools and other public buildings — and that in a situation where the Government for the second consecutive year is adding to a reduction in the free income of municipalities. Or as KS said in the Evening Post on Saturday: ‘The Community framework for 2008 actually means a lower growth than the budgets of Erna Solberg. This means that the municipalities must start to cut again’. That's the reality of Municipality-Norway. When are the government parties going to take this reality over and stop promising more on behalf of Kommune-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1537	What is important is that we focus more on Community solutions, and the main contributor is the municipalities. That's why there was a significant rise when this government joined. Then there was a formidable promise for the municipalities. The advisers and rapporteurs I have spoken to noticed a huge difference between the previous government and the current government. Then the revenues of municipalities have also increased in the year's budget, but they have increased somewhat less. But it is clear that the need is great. Not least, there is a huge lag on the building mass around the municipalities to be included. And we see that there are still new challenges. But what's important is we say no to tax havens. We have now tightened up, especially with regard to taxes on the wealthiest, and are using them on Community solutions. But that the need is still greater than that of money, I agree with the representative, Höie. We'd like to spend even more money, but then in the Norwegian economy you have to hold back something in terms of both interest rate and exchange rate, and that makes the municipalities have a slightly lower growth this year than they had just after the government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1544	SV joined the Government with a promise to return to Norway as an environmental nation. The representative Ryan himself asked the question, Can we deliver? There has been a long way between SV's environmental victories so far during this government period. The government is not in the vicinity of achieving the goal of realising 3 TWh new renewable energy by 2010. The 2008 State budget introduces a strong tax consolidation in the case of small-scale power plants, does not increase the rates of support for new renewable energy, does not increase the capital of the basic fund, and does not increase the appropriations for energy research. So far, poor 0,6 TWh new renewable energy has been realised in Norway. My question is: Where does Norway go back as an environmental nation in the budget for 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1553	It's very good that the Christian People's Party is concerned about that question, because it's also SV. One thing is new renewable energy, but the other is how we're going to use less energy. We know that the budget for 2008 will add closer to NOK l.5 billion. It's almost a double compared to the previous one. Enova is receiving significantly increased funds. The goal you've set is to reach 12 TWh by 2010. It is not only new renewable energy but also energy-saving measures that will amount to 12 TWh. It's a big target, a very ambitious goal, because we know that in Norway today we're at about 120-130 TWh in production. We stand by that goal, but we see that even greater effort is required here, not just from Enova, but from people's viewpoints. In fact, greater efforts are needed to reduce energy consumption. But both within bioenergy, there we have a great potential, and within small power, we work hard on getting this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1562	The teacher's density in high school goes down, and we're as familiar with major challenges in recruiting more teachers. The government is doing little to correct this situation and to meet the challenges of the future. The left is proposing today to strengthen the county economy by 500 million. kr to ensure enough teachers in higher education in the future. In addition, we are proposing 175 million in our budget. kr for the preparation and implementation of national recruitment plans for teachers. My question is: why don't the government parties take seriously the big challenge of recruiting enough teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1572	Let's take it seriously! The most important resource in school -- I've been working at school for 15 years -- is neither toilets nor roof drains, it's the teacher. The fact that we have teachers who are motivated, and who have sufficient resources to do a good job, is very important not only in primary and secondary schools, but also when one comes up to higher education. This is why we also want to stimulate further training of teachers. I know that the new Minister of Knowledge, Bård Vegar Solhjell, has said that he wants to become even more active, and look at the teaching role – that is, how teachers work, and how the working conditions of the teachers are. It's very important. Having a teacher who has good working conditions and thrives in his job, it will infect the students. That's the main reason for getting to a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1586	Let me first say that it is quite pleasing to hear an engaged representative that Inge Ryan keeps his post, even though I disagree with many of the points he draws out. But I would like to make one point that Mr Ryan did not mention, and that is the document fee. Before the 2005 decision, SV was actually concerned about reducing and getting something done with the document fee. Especially for many initial start-ups, this charge is quite unreasonable. We know that many first-time start-ups have problems getting into the housing market, and getting rid of that type of document fee could have been a good handshake. Why has SV gone away from its previous election promises? Does Inge Ryan, as the parliamentary leader of SV, see any chance that this is something you actually intend to do in the current ageing period?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1595	The document fee is one thing we have discussed in SV several times. It is clear that when you are going to get a home, you get an extra surprise when you see that you also have to pay a document fee in addition to the costs you have of getting a home. I've talked to many young people, especially, who suddenly get a surprise when this fee comes to the top of the other costs. There are also many in SV who have suggested that this is something we should look at. It was not prioritised in this state budget, but I can promise the representative, Leirstein, that there is a debate that we can imagine will continue. The question is, do we remove it? In any case, we will look at the possibilities of converting the document fee, possibly reducing it. I can't promise that it will happen next year, but I can promise that we will take seriously the recordings that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1602	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1605	We're in the middle of two big shots. The majority government should at least be halfway in the process of realizing the Soria Moria declaration. Speakers from the red-green page have already spent a lot of time praising their efforts so far, and more will certainly come. In the finance debate last year, one of the government parties closed its inauguration with Hallelujah!’. I don't have the habit of dampening down people who shout hallelujah – or praise the Lord, as it means. For my own part, I still want to reserve this expression for one who has a significantly greater impact on world history than the one that even the leader of the sitting Norwegian government has. Today's government has an economic base that no one else has had. An increasing amount of oil money is being ploughed into the budget. It comes to the top of a economy that has created a happy record of employment and low unemployment. Nevertheless, many people feel that the draft budget does not give them the answers they had hoped for. One important reason for this is probably the offensive sales campaign that the red-greens led for their policy, both before and after the elections. The fact that even the world's luckiest government — economically — cannot meet all the expectations it has created should not come as a bomb in this room. But I'm afraid it'll come as a surprise to many others. The Christian People's Party has not intended to spend the time in this debate on black polling. We know well that a government must say no to many good purposes. When comparing the various draft budgets from both the government and the opposition, there is little basis for saying that the differences are dramatic, except for the draft budget from the Progress Party. However, the differences between the Government Party and the Christian People's Party's budget are clear. In the Christian People's Party, we re-prioritize 3 billion kroner within the public expenditure and the additional 3 billion kroner within the tax and tax arrangements. We challenge the Government to do more to fight international poverty. With the speed at which Norwegian aid is stepped up, the target of 1 pst. the GNI has been reached in 2009. I think the historical step up to 1 pst. should be taken in the year, and then increased further during that period. It is in line with the Christian People's Party's political promise for this period, and I also believed it was in line with the Government Party's promises. The Christian People's Party also wants to do more to increase trade with low-income countries. This is primarily a solidarity measure. The Christian People's Party is spending money removing customs walls against low-income countries with almost 20 times more than what the Government is doing. Fortunately, we have recorded that the Government wants to increase economic relations with Israel, and we are very much looking forward to concrete proposals by the Minister of Finance and other Councils to pursue this objective. This will be stimulating both for the Norwegian economy and for Norwegian competence development. The Christian People's Party challenges the Government to do more to fight poverty in Norway. The government party in Stortinget was allowed to move 100 million. kr. Some of these funds were used to strengthen the targeted poverty measures. It's positive, but at the same time it's a clear sign that many of these big groups are fully involved with the Christian People's Party in the fact that the Government's priorities were too low. The Christian People's Party will focus even more on support for housing, on labour law measures against outsourced groups, on care and drug treatment, and on targeted measures against children and young people with a particularly high risk of falling outside. When it comes to maternity and adoption benefits, the government does not do anything to reduce discrimination against mothers without fixed-income work, which is already large. The government doesn't do anything to increase the parental leave – contrary to the government statement. We fully support the Government when it comes to implementing a tax shift with a focus on green taxes. As the Christian People's Party's alternative budget shows, we think there's room for strengthening this shift already in 2008. In the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and Left, we have made offensive demands for environmental policy action in the 2009 budget. For our part, we are willing to increase the pace also in 2008; it applies to both green taxes, increased reserves, etc. Through such a tax shift, there will also be room to do more when it comes to improving the business environment and value creation. We note that the most widely reported industrial policy approach from the Government is to engage in a potential conflict with the riding industry in the Supreme Court. In addition, this grip has given the trust and care a serious break. For us in the Christian People's Party, active industrial policy means, first of all, facilitating inheritance fees for family businesses, in order to stimulate more forward-looking research, etc. in family holdings. We are convinced that our option would have produced a better result in the form of value creation across the country than what the Government will provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1640	In very many areas, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party are very close: in matters of value, in matters of community, and in the view of care. I'm glad, even if I don't call hallelujah. Then I see you bets on poverty reduction. And my question to the representative of Sørfonn is: why are you cutting off subsidies for health and rehabilitation for sick people with 200 million? kr, Knots in the number of 500-million labour market places. kr, cuts in the fishing industry’s daily allowance scheme, in the permitting scheme and in the pay guarantee scheme? Is this not going to be a salutation through cuts that are just hitting poor and ordinary workers? Isn't this a poor comfort when you take and give with the same hand? I would say that maybe that's why you call your option a poor consolation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1647	When it comes to poverty, I remind you that the Bondevik II government was the first government to have a targeted effort to fight poverty. Unlike the government party, this year's Christian People's Party is in a situation where we can also listen to what appears in the budget. We have listened to it and adjusted our budget in relation to the need that has been notified. It doesn't benefit with little rhetorical tricks to get away from the fact that the Christian People's Party's impoverishment is considerably greater than what comes from the government party. We have targeted this both against children in genuinely postponed groups, against drug users and against families, in the form of housing, etc. It is a context, and there are targeted actions in our poverty initiative – targeted actions that we know will take place, because we have also listened to users who are to benefit from it and who are calling for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1652	It is very good to say about the Christian People's Party's draft budget. Some of the things I see lying there, about tax changes and things like that, there's nothing else to say but that we have to take this further and look forward to both the revised national budget and the budget for next year. Several of these points, such as aid, trade in low-income countries, poverty and the environment, are all areas where the Christian People's Party says: We do more than the Government – but where our government does much more than the previous government did. It should be that this is about pulling in the same direction, and then we just try to help each other on the way. I have one question for the representative Sørfonn, and it's about the shipping tax. So it's like the Christian People's Party is going against the scheme that the Government is putting up with, and the majority of people are going in favour of it. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party spends SEK 1.2 billion on this year's budget. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1659	This is closely related. I guess the government's party doesn't have much to boast about, because even in the government's arrangement, they express considerable uncertainty when it comes to the constitution secret. We in the Christian People's Party do not want a situation where we get a conflict in the Supreme Court in relation to a great and important industry. So we've proposed a compromise, a solution that I'm pretty sure would lead to. There is a frustration in the area that the representative Holmås knows well, and that I come from. A lot of riders who don't water in luxury, but who make money and plow them back to their community, say, "We've been tricked, we've gone into the previous reindeer tax system in confidence that this would provide stability and forbearance. It was part of our colleagues who flagged out and moved away, they can now come back, and they come much better from the economics than we have who have been loyal all the way, we feel tricked. This is dramatic. The government party should also take on the fact that there has been a significant weight of confidence in good governance and stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1665	Also I agree with what Heikki Holmås says, that there is a lot of positive in the Christian People's Party's draft budget. The majority of the population have, in their re-priorities in the budget, among other things. enhanced the poverty rate, as also pointed out by the representative of Sørfonn in his contributions. The nation wrote in the leadership position on November 22 that the Christian People's Party now seems to have the most to gain cooperation on the red-green side, and that the distance to the Right and the Advance Party has become even greater through the harvest budgetary process. I would also like to stress that the dramatic cuts that both the Right and the Advance Party propose for agriculture should not be a special invitation to the Christian People's Party. As a representative of the Center Party, I think it is gratifying that the Christian People's Party is likely to get more outnumbered for its main issues at this centre-left government. I'd like to ask for Sørfonn's comments on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1674	I'm always excited about the question when you start by boasting about the non-inferiority of the Christian People's Party's policy, but I understand the address of the question here. What's important to us in the Christian People's Party is to get our policies, our options and our solutions, as they have their origins in our program, and then we seek cooperation where we get the most impact on our policies. We have had good experience with this in the various government constellations we have been in. We're not in the situation now that we're building any government in this period. I've understood that even if you have some internal problems, this government is trying to keep the period together, and we're not going to stick the jaws in the wheel for it. At the same time, it's interesting to see a certain convergence between the center parts. It also seemed this way, when we listen to Lundtigen's contribution today, that neither the Center Party is entirely satisfied with the government they are in. So maybe the center part should also think a little bit more about what center can do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1681	The Christian People's Party will boast so far in the lineword exchanges, but I'm going to promise that it won't be a habit. But basically, there's support for the government's draft budget from the Christian People's Party. We have about the same budgetary balance, there are little cosmetic changes. We are quite a few when it comes to the profile of health, care and welfare provision, aid policy, agricultural and rural policy, etc. – I can also take the parental payment in the nursery. That's what I thought was good, and it's good for the future. What is surprising is the proposal for a Christian People's Party. I will mention a couple of proposals that have a commercial policy interest. Christian People's Party cut 130 million. kr in the maintenance of highways. Furthermore, it is cut off in food policy instruments. The Christian People's Party states in its observations that: ‘value creation is the basis for well-being. Hence, industrial policy is decisive for the Christian People’s Party. This I agree with. But still, the Christian People's Party cuts by over 330 million. on industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1695	When it comes to our industrial policy, it is primarily directed at small and medium-sized enterprises. There are a number of measures that we see in context. For this reason, we have the terpa on, and we are going to insist, that the inheritance fee for generation change in family businesses should fall away under certain conditions if the next generation continues. I think that when it comes to the promise to exchange taxes on wealth against taxes on dividends, one in this government could solve it elegantly by exempting working capital from taxes on wealth. Thus, one could still be within its own application. We want to start research and development in small and medium-sized enterprises, and in the whole of business. If one looks at our business policy together, one will see that there is a context in it. The policy is very targeted, and after the contact we have with the business community, we are told that it is an industrial policy that the industry itself believes in, and in which they see the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1704	I just want to make it clear first that the government parties are of course absolutely certain when a decision is to be taken on Thursday on the shipping tax. I would also like to comment on why one believes that the shipping companies in their time chose the scheme that was introduced in Norway. I don't think they did that because of national feelings. I think they did it out of pure returns on capital, because they had one of the best international arrangements, which they'll also get in the future. But the Christian People's Party is going to be a "smart" party, and they're aging with the money that's in it for the shipping tax. Is the representative of Sørfönn as ‘reasonable’ as the representative and leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, who said that we are spending the money, because the other parties are going to adopt it anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1711	I replied to a similar line earlier. I would like to repeat that when it comes to the fleet tax system, we strongly criticise the government for the way they have dealt with it, and the government party for building up a completely unnecessary conflict with an important industry – an industry that has a high level of competence and a long tradition in our country, and which we actually depend on in the future. The fact that the government is heavily attached to a collision course, as the government has now added, is a bit arrogant. I referred to, and I like to repeat it, that a good part of the riders that I'm talking to and that I'm doing in my district aren't rowers like lashes in luxury, but it's riders who plow back their value to communities, workplaces, etc. These are reasonably distraught, to say it mildly, they feel tricked. They say that their confidence in stability and foresight is significant. Through our draft budget, we have tabled a compromise that we think would have provided a good and pragmatic way through this, which the industry itself would certainly have accepted and with which the powers of government could have lived. That is the background to the position that we have taken in our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1720	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1723	The center party will build society from below. In order for individuals to grow and have the opportunity to realize their dreams, their ideas about good life, they need a local environment that creates security, identity and culturally rooted. At the same time, the rights of individuals must always be seen in the light of the rights of others, because much freedom for some leads to less freedom for others. The security of the community is characterised by cohesion, interoperability and equality between different groups. As one of the richest countries in the world, we have to dry up our minds in many areas. We need to find answers to the challenges of the future and all the questions that many people are wondering about today. If 20 years ago people had had our financial opportunities and today's prevention knowledge, we wouldn't have had the huge growth in diabetes, cancer, obesity, asthma, disability and sick leave, in the number of child protection children and criminals we see now. The living age would be higher, and more would stay longer in fine form. People wanted to feel better. It would be easier to be a politician today if they had been better and wiser 20 years ago. I want our successors not to think that way about us. Today, we know that increased physical activity and healthier diets effectively prevent, that better walking and cycling routes are super-profitable, that less use of tobacco and drugs saves lives and improves quality of life, that good follow-up of the very least results in the best. We know that all prevention is better than repair, and that early prevention is best. The major challenge ahead, in addition to this budget, is to address us and follow up with targeted prevention measures. The benefits of good prevention will be reflected in social accounts through increased value creation and tax access, lower costs for social security, health care, child protection and criminal care. Safe communities in both urban and rural areas are both an objective and an important instrument. Safe communities depend on a good community economy, which ensures important welfare services such as kindergartens, schools, child protection, health services, care and care, cultural services, etc. Due to strong efforts in the municipal sector in recent years, municipalities can provide quality services tailored to the needs of their inhabitants. The centre party is committed to a continued sustainable local economy, which is the prerequisite for future safe communities throughout the country. Furthermore, safe communities depend on increased value creation, which requires continued commitment to industrial development, transport and rural activities. The central party has been committed in the budget to defend and further develop the investment in infrastructure and broadband. Both road and rail investment in line with the national transport plan and increased appropriations for fishing ports and ferries in the budget are particularly important in this respect. An active business throughout the country that both further processes Norwegian raw materials and uses Norway’s competitive advantage through our natural resources, ensures settlement and builds knowledge across the country. It is also essential for safe communities. An economic policy that contributes to ensuring a competitive business in the future is particularly important. In times of strong economic growth in most areas, pressures on the least profitable industries are increasing and centralisation is increasing. Primary industries, agriculture and fisheries/fisheries are essential for work and housing in rural areas and they need to be guaranteed framework conditions that make them competitive overall. If we are to be able to meet the climate challenges in the coming years, we need to be able at the same time to put proper and focused on new and renewable energy. This can also be a good business policy. The centre party is therefore pleased with the Government’s clear and explicit goal of a new renewable energy investment, with a total target of 30 TWh in increasing renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement from 2001 to 2016. Today, in the Central Party, we find that we do not have enough tools to fully achieve this goal. The Central Party will point to the majority comment that the Government will present a broad assessment of the incentives for increasing environmentally friendly hydropower and other renewable energy in the 2008 Revised National Budget. The centre party expects a broad assessment of both fiscal, energy and industrial conditions affecting the development of, inter alia, small force. We expect that this review will lead to changes in the framework conditions already in the revised national budget for 2008, in such a way that more small-scale energy is actually developed where it makes sense and where it is economically sound. We need more renewable energy production if we are to achieve the targets for the deployment of new renewable energy by 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1754	I agree with Mr Brerk that it makes sense to provide more renewable energy. It makes sense to facilitate several hydropower plants, small-scale power plants. It has two sides. Firstly, it is good rural policy, which is also supported by the Central Party, and of course it is also good for the environment. The problem is that the Center Party is doing the opposite. In the State budget, there is an increase in the taxation of small-scale power plants and a deterioration in the framework conditions. We have already received feedback that this will mean that power plants that a formerly believed were cost-effective to expand, now are not being developed. Then my question is: why does the representative Breck say one thing and do something else, simply to exacerbate the framework conditions for small-scale development in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1759	It is not to hide that the issue of small-scale power development has been a difficult matter in the centre parts and in the towns and districts where a worker works with it. However, we are behind the proposal that is now being implemented. But we're also very concerned that we're going to realize the content of the comment that I just went through in my post, where one says that one should look at both economic, environmental, energy, and, not least, fiscal assessments of the change that is now taking place. We expect that this review will lead to changes in the proposed measures. It is very important that we have this properly reviewed. That will be the best basis for us to have a sensible policy in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1765	The Government has designated the maritime industry as a special and important sector for Norway. I think that's wise, because this coastal industry is global, it has over 100 billion dollars in turnover and employs more than a hundred thousand people. This is why it becomes incomprehensible when the Government’s draft budget for 2008 goes into frontal attacks on the shipping industry. In fact, a new shipping tax system is coming, but the government is cancelling the tax exemption in the current system all the way back to 1996, and is trying to reclaim 14 billion kroner in tax. There is probably not a single company in Norway that would use the current system if they knew that the exemption would be reversed. In fact, many would have saved taxes on the use of ordinary corporation tax. The proposal will reduce coastal investment by nearly 50 billion DKK and is likely to be contrary to the Constitution. The representative, Lundtägen, said a little slightly earlier today that the Centre Party took note of this. But does the parliamentary leader of the Central Party believe that it is okay that the government's framework conditions are established through long legal proceedings in Norwegian Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1772	The issue of shipping taxes, both transitional and future, has been a complex matter. It also underlined Lundtegen in its statement earlier today. I would like to stress that the Government is now establishing a competitive company tax model for the future. That also underlined Hansen's question. Of course, we in the Central Party are very pleased about this. We are also concerned that this is an important district industry that also provides the basis for land-based activities in many coastal areas. The maritime industries are some of our strongest business environments, and this is important for us in the Center Party to contribute to the future. As regards the transitional arrangements and the tax credit requested here, the Central Party has gone into that matter with a different solution from the compromise proposed by the Government. The majority of the Central Party Group have taken note of the Government's view of the shipping tax, based on the political situation we are in. The Group has therefore accepted the existing proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1781	The representative, Lars Peder Breck, said in his intervention that it was important to create safe local welfare communities. The Christian People's Party fully agrees. We agree that a good school, good care services, a rich cultural offer and a positive development locally depend entirely on a good local economy. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the escalation of the municipal economy that started in the previous period has been followed up for several years by the present government. But now it's stopped. After a peak in 2006, there is now a halt to the investment in the municipal economy. When the representative Lars Peder Breck says that one should still have a sustainable municipal economy, does he believe that the escalation is over, and that it should only be the status quo, or does he see a decline?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1788	I think the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, as the representative Tørresdal here stresses, very much agree on the importance of the local economy to ensure good welfare, to ensure good schools, cultural services, etc., which is also emphasised in the question. We are concerned that the municipal economy will continue in the future. We see that the transfers to the municipalities that have entered this budget are being called into question. It is proposed to meet the demographic challenges. We will look further at the challenges in the future when we look at the local economy, because the Senter Party has not stopped developing the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1795	In August of this year, there was a panel debate on the Little Thing on Hamar. The topic of the debate was the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. In that debate, the representative Lars Peder Breck also took part on behalf of the Government and promised that there would be no further tax cuts for business in the budget for 2008. Now it's nothing new that this government says one thing, but does something else. And it turned out that the promise had a validity of approx. One month – before we saw the truth in the 2008 budget: the stock discount that stimulates widespread ownership is removed, the 80 p.m. rule tightened, increased power plant tax on small power plants, increased social security charges for traders, changes in the shipping tax, diesel tax increases, etc. My question to the representative, Brekk, is: What is in the government's tax system that balances these tax chains for business, and thus keeps the representative's words from NHO's small things?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1804	I have commented on the increased power plant tax in my article. I've said that we want to look at it further. We've been with and designed a note with the other parties in the government, and we're concerned that we're going to get a thorough and proper review of the power plant tax in line with what's wanted from the Small Forces Association and the EBL. We want a business review, an energy policy review and an environmental policy review of that tax, and of course we expect it to produce results towards revision, so that we get a tax that ensures the future prospects of this industry, which is important for the districts, and which is important to many landowners around the country. Especially small power is important. As far as the diesel tax is concerned, we see that it does not meet with resistance. It has a climate effect, and we also see that the Left is pleased with the tax exchange that the diesel tax involves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1811	It seems to me that the Center Party is beginning to be a bit cramped to sit in government. It seems to be happening every time the Center Party has been in government for a few years, you start to feel uncomfortable. Now we hear from the Central Party's parliamentary leader that because of the political situation that has arisen, the proposal for a State budget is now being supported. But isn't it true that the Center Party has been involved in the whole process, with more government councils and even the party leader in government? Is it not true that Lars Peder Breck and Lundtägen have also been involved in the preparation of proposals for government budgets? The first thing that happened when the budget was presented was that the Center Party attacked the Government's poverty-making campaign, and I understand that SV was cursed. Now we have heard that the shipping tax has been taken into account by the central party's large-scale group, and the small-scale tax on small-scale power plants is not much appreciated either. Is it true that the Central Party has been involved in the preparation of the State budget and is behind it? And does Lars Peder Breck think that there is a particular loyalty to the Central Party in this budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1820	The centre party has been involved in the preparation of the budget, and we support the proposals presented in the budget, which will be voted on later this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1825	And that was the answer to the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1830	That was a clear answer! The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1835	When I saw the Government's government budget for 2008, it struck me that in election years there would be an obvious advantage if the state budget were presented during the election campaign. It probably increased the possibility that there was consistency between what was promised and what was delivered. The State budget submitted is not in line with the promises made by the Government in very significant areas. It was said that Norway would be a leading country in environmental and climate work. That promise has not been followed up in the State budget submitted. A new course was announced, and a power cap for the environment was announced. Then we see that there is a very low environmental budget where the Ministry of Environment is one of the budget papers for another year. The government has tried to decorate this by providing an overview of what it calls environmental measures in the budgets of many different ministries. In total, this is going to amount to 24 billion dollars. This attempt to make up a poor environmental budget was revealed quite quickly. Of the 24 billion DKK to go to environmental measures, SEK 4.2 billion comes from the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. One third of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget is collected as an environmental effort. This means that one is getting more from the Ministry of Agriculture than from the Ministry of the Environment for environmental policy, as the Government estimates. Now it is not just the Left who is dissatisfied with the Government's commitment to environmental and climate work. A poll that was presented yesterday shows that the entire 70 pst. by the population believes that the Government is not doing enough in this area. I think it's because you see clearly that there's no agreement between what the government says it's going to do, and what it's actually doing in the climate communication and in the budget. People expect leadership on climate challenges. They want to contribute, and they want to make it easier for them to contribute. Then you see that the government doesn't meet these expectations. The left has a strong desire for and was the first party to make a climate settlement in this room. There are challenges in this area that are of such a nature that politicians should strive to find solutions. I hope that the opinion poll announced yesterday increases the Government's will and the pressure on the Government to contribute to such a settlement. In the view of the Left, there is a need for rapid action to transform into a low-carbon society. There is an urgent need for action that one does not see reflected in the government budget. It is an important point that if a drudgery starts this work, the price that one has to pay will increase. In the view of the Left, government policy on climate challenges seems to be marked by a fear of change. The left considers the transition as new possibilities. We look at migration as opportunities to create new technologies, new businesses and new jobs. At the same time, the main recommendation of the Committee on Low Emissions was that a massive effort should be made on technology development and on research. From this point of view, it is completely incomprehensible that the Government continues to have its research cutting edge, when just increasing research efforts is one of the keys to the solutions it needs to get in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In another area where the Government does not follow its promises, the Low Emissions Committee has a clear recommendation. It is important to start rapidly cleaning the gas power plants. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has promised that the gas power plant at Kårstø will be cleaned by 2009. Now we know that that's not going to happen. What we don't know is how long we have to wait before this promise is fulfilled. There is also reason to be concerned about the progress associated with the promise of clean-up at Mongstad. Also in a third area where the Low Emissions Committee had a clear recommendation on offensive policies, the Government fails. It concerns renewable energy. There the Government says that it should have a powerful regime to trigger large amounts of renewable energy production, while the reality is that Norway, together with Malta and Estonia, stands for one of the worst renewable energy production support systems. This means that we export good projects that could have been realised in Norway, but are being realised abroad because of government policies. Yes, even the power giant Statkraft, who is owned by the state itself, says that a rather rate of renewable energy production abroad because the framework conditions set by the owner, the state, in Norway, are so bad. The Left's Alternative State Budget places more emphasis on environmental and climate action than the Government puts it up to. The extra bet is about DKr 1.8 billion. In addition, a tax shift from red to green tax is about. Three billion kroner. This tax change is based on the desire to pay off and to have a cost of polluting and wasting resources. In our alternative state budget, we're bringing up 200 million. kr as a subsidy to climate municipalities. It is based on the recognition that the municipalities are closest to the inhabitants, and that it is important to have an environmental exposure, a climate exposure in the municipalities. We want to support a number of municipalities that can become pilot municipalities and exhibition windows for inspiration for other municipalities. Our alternative budget also invests more in forest protection, in gyro control, in outdoor activities and in cultural memory work than the government does. We also follow up with major appropriations for fjord and coastal poisoning, because this is not the match between the tasks that lie ahead and the provision of funds that the Government has in its budget. The desire to invest more in research is the result of spending 100 million. kr more for climate research and 300 mill. kr more for research on renewable energy sources. When we considered the management plan for the northern regions of Stortinget, the government clearly expressed a desire to strengthen oil protection. That is what should balance the opening up of more extensive oil operations in the north. This strengthening of oil protection equipment has not been followed up in accordance with the promises given, so the Left has added an additional 100 million. kr for this purpose. It is a prominent part of our alternative state budget that we are spending more on public transport – overall it is 850 million. kr. A key component is the doubling of the reward scheme for public transport in metropolitan areas. Here the Government has actually made less funds available to the cities that are part of the scheme. It is a successful system that should be strengthened, not built down. With regard to the railway operation of the Government, the actual conditions are such that the means made available are well on the way to the cost increases in these areas. In its alternative budget, the Left has provided significantly more for rail purposes than the Government has. There is currently a disparity between the high-speed enthusiasm, such as the Left-Party, and the willingness to bet on the railway to facilitate increased freight transport and increased passenger transport. Moreover, it is not only in the government parties that the imbalance is to be seen in the budget. It is also a crossroads of thought that a high rate of seismic surveys in the northern regions does not follow up with the environmental monitoring that one has promised to start. The government recently held a strategy conference after two years in the government offices. It was then concluded that the climate noise was larger than that caused by Soria Moria. It was said that there was a need for a more powerful action, and then you'll see that there is a climate report and a government budget that doesn't give more than what you promised, but that contributes less than the government parties promised. In this situation, I am pleased that the Left is presenting the most offensive environmental and climate budget of the parties represented in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1874	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1877	The left has a policy that will eliminate the process industry and Norwegian shipping. It is a poor environmental policy, and it will also lead to the disappearance of over 200 billion DKK in export revenue, and there will be hundreds of thousands of unemployed. The answer from the Left is to cut the workplace, cut the qualification programme, cut seismic surveys to find more oil and gas, cut pensions and increase food prices. The policy of the left will lead to a mass migration across the mountain to enter here when they no longer have work. But the representative Kvassheim knows that there is no room for everyone here. I will challenge him to say what he will do to the hundreds of thousands of unemployed who will come as a result of Left's policy, for the representative Kvassheim is also known to promise significantly more than he delivers. I just want to remind you that he was Secretary of State in the last government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1884	The Left believes that in the future we should live not least of the new opportunities, but not of the old, outdated and subsidized solutions. It is a cross-thinking that today’s government is using more on the net pay scheme than they are using to invest in renewable energy sources. I am absolutely convinced that the money transferred to renewable energy production would provide more jobs and decentralised jobs. And I don't think the Left's policy in this area would lead to a fall in the number of jobs in an industry that goes very well. As far as the process industry is concerned, we do what we say we should do. I was in debate with the representative of Klungland at the People's House in Sauda. He was almost under the roof when he promised that there would be new subsidized power prices to the industry in a short time. The industry is still waiting for the solutions that he promised. If we had followed Left's advice and gone into the market, we would have received significantly lower prices than we now have, and we had secured jobs – which have become uncertain because they believed in Klungland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1891	Klungland has never talked about subsidised power prices [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1896	Several have not asked for the word for a line. We're going back to the regular list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1901	It was a little silly, because I have a couple of lines until I could have driven at Kvassheim. I just want to start my post by saying that I've never talked about subsidized power prices. Where the left has got it from, I don't know. I want to say that this weekend I was on a revision in my municipality of residence, Kvinesdal. The title of that revision was ‘That's so sweet’. Yeah, that's great. It's going pretty much so that it sucks all over the country right now, but in such a situation it's more important than ever to make sure at bad times. Investments in construction are now being put straight on the roof. Nevertheless, there are some people who think that we can solve the problems of cleaning up with more money. Why is there someone who still thinks that prices will go down, just the state spends more money? On the contrary, in Norway we do not currently have enough workers. The contractors have so much to do that they screw the prices in the weather to earn more. That's exactly why they've become entrepreneurs. With more money into the system now, prices will be even higher. Norway will have less construction, less road, less rail for more money. This will lead to a negative development for Norway, an egoism that will harm the generations that come after us. But fear not: government parties will continue to build up prosperity in Norway, and we will do so within a sustainable economic framework – sustainable now and in the generations to come. Government batches will use approx. One billion more than the Advance Party for the day-to-day allowance for the unemployed. But that's not what the Progress Party says, because that means that you cut the social security of the unemployed. The government will also spend almost $1 billion more on health care than the Advance Party. It doesn't say anything about the Progress Party, because it means cuts and cuts for those who are sick. The Government considers that the employee should be entitled to deduct from his tax the union quota. Why does the Progress Party believe that it is only the employer who should receive tax deductions when people organize most? Government parties do not want to cut billions in the agricultural agreement, as the Right and the Advance Party will. We also do not support the right to increase VAT by 2 pst. next year, simply because this affects common peoples and districts. Government parties do not want to increase kindergarten prices for 2008, as is the case for the Right. We believe that kindergarten prices are going down. We cannot then accept proposals for increase promoted by the Right. We also do not want to increase the social security charge for pensioners, as the Right will. But that won't be the right thing to talk about. Also, the government parties will not accept cuts in the purchase of climate quotas, as the Christian People's Party wants. In our opinion, climate policy is too important for us to cut here. Nor do we want to cut the health and rehabilitation money for the sick, as the Christian People's Party wants. People don't get to work any faster. The Government Parties will not, as the Left, remove the net pay scheme for seafarers. To that, maritime nutrition and Norwegian seafarers are far too important, we believe. All opposition parties show that they have one common value: let the little ones pay the richest! Privatise, and cut for those who have the least, is the repeater. Nevertheless, they are free enough to talk about poverty. It becomes as credible as when ‘Comic Ali’ said he had full control of American forces during the invasion of Iraq. The Norwegian people made a good choice in 2005. I am convinced that they will do the same in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1922	The financial debate of the year is characterised in particular by two factors. One is that we have a majority government that also in this state budget implements election promises at a high pace and in many areas. The second is that the financial debate reaffirms that there is no common alternative to today's majority rule. First, a little bit about what the budget means when it comes to fulfilling electoral commitments, we promised the voters before the elections. Unemployment is halved. Never before has employment been higher in Norway. Never before have more people been at work. It is an important contribution both to combating social inequality and to equalising social differences. It is also the most important contribution to increased value creation and production in our country that we do not waste our labour force by leaving people unemployed, but that people are in work and thus contribute to value creation. Of course, there are many factors that cause unemployment to decline and employment to increase. However, the Government has also contributed by pursuing a responsible economic policy, through income policy cooperation that has once again demonstrated the strength of the Nordic model in avoiding price and cost growth, and through active labour market policies. It is also good to note that those who were startled by the fact that a government consisting of SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party would conduct an irresponsible economic policy, that especially SV in the government offices would create high interest rates and chaos in the financial policy, have been wrong. An economically responsible policy has been pursued, and the three parties have jointly managed that policy. So in terms of work and value creation, we do what we said we should do. The second is that this budget reaffirms our choice of welfare rather than taxation. There are significant increases in funding for many different welfare purposes. It is possible because we cancelled the proposed tax reliefs from the previous government and went back to 2004 levels in terms of taxes. Then we have gotten up to 50 billion extra kroner in this four-year period to spend on Community goods rather than tax relief. It helps to make it possible for us to provide almost NOK 4 billion more for the hospitals, make sure that we are on track for more hands in the care of the elderly, provide more hours at school and bet on research and knowledge. We have increased the appropriations for research in more than three years than the previous government has done for the entire period of its expansion. That is also why we have fulfilled the transport plan and granted more to transport than the previous government. We have provided a significant boost for the municipalities, after many years of starvation under the Bondevik II administration. The kindergartens get more. So all of this is an expression of our choosing well-being over tax havens. The third feature of this budget, and which is an important follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration and our election promises, is that there is a historical commitment to the environment. It is partly on the expenditure side of the budget, but partly also on the revenue side of the budget. It's e.g. important that we continue to convert the tax system in a more environmentally friendly way. It contributes to the cost-effective reduction of emissions. In addition, we are joining the EU's quota system. This means that up to half – at least well over 40 pst. – Norwegian emissions are now regulated by absolute ceilings on total emissions, by being part of an allowance system that costs it to pollute. And it's profitable: you make money to reduce emissions. In addition to environmental taxes and the quota system, we are implementing environmental measures on the expenditure side of the budget. It is about aid for public transport and for railway investment. It's about the fact that with the budget that is now being put on the table, we have doubled the effort for new renewable energy, compared to the Bondevik II government. I hear that the parties in that government think it's too small, but we've doubled their efforts. So as stupendous as they claim it should be, it can't be when we grant twice as much new renewable energy as what you did two years ago. We have also granted considerable resources for the development of a gas power technology to clean CO2, and we use considerable sums both at Kårstø and at Mongstad to develop and get to that type of cleaning. So there's a significant investment in the environment in this budget. There are also many other bets where we follow up the Soria Moria statement, among other things. The cultural promise – a historic commitment to culture. We have succeeded in reducing prison queues by expanding the prison system. And we have a historic increase in aid. That is how we can proceed, but there is undeniably evidence in this budget and in this budget debate that, even if we are not on target, we are doing well and keeping a high pace in fulfilling election promises. The country was given a new direction, a new course, with the election result in 2005, with the new government that chose Community rather than tax. It is one of the main features of the budget debate and the budget that the Stortinget is now adopting. The second main feature of this debate is that the alternative to this government is increasingly unclear. There are two years left to the decision-making process, so it is not reasonable to demand that the four opposition parties, to the extent that they want to be a common government option, present a common programme, common policies at all points, but I note that they do not present a common vision of what kind of government they want in 2009 as an alternative to today's majority government. They do not have a common prime minister candidate, and they are very far apart in defining common policies, at least in some key areas. When the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre began to work together in the previous growing-up period, it was in respect of the fact that there were three different parties with three different programs, and neither did we have a parallel view in all matters in the budget settings. But we worked for a common goal, and up to the 2005 elections, we clarified key issues. First of all, we decided what kind of government we wanted, a majority government. Secondly, we decided on a number of main initiatives, namely the joint effort rather than the continuation of the non-social fiscal policy. Thirdly, we clarified some of the difficult things that had traditionally split our three parties. We came to a common position on European policy. We came to a common position on foreign and security policy. And we came to a common position on the main arrangements of economic policy, among other things. by establishing the rule of action – a responsible use of oil money. What the voters may require of the opposition is that if they want to be a credible government option, they must, not in this financial debate, but in the future, resolve some of the same basic issues. What kind of government do they want – if they want a common government as an alternative to today’s government? And what do they think about some of the things that have traditionally split them the most, such as. European affairs and security policy traditionally fragmented Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party? I have noticed with pleasure that the Right has guaranteed – and that is a strong expression – that they will follow the rule of action. They're not going to spend any more oil money. They will not do what the Progress Party promises, namely to increase the use of oil money. I think it stands respect for the fact that the Right, which is a party engaged in accountability in economic policy, guarantees that there will be no more use of oil money. What's interesting then is what the Progress Party answers to that. I then assume that the Advance Party must begin to cancel many of its election vows – in the field of transport, in health, in the field of care of the elderly, in tax havens and many other areas. What we should have an answer to from the Advancement Party is: what is the Advancement Party cutting out of everything they promise the voters, when they are going to cooperate with the Right, which has guaranteed that there will be no more use of oil money? I don't think we need an answer to that in all the details, but it might be interesting if the Progress Party began to suggest how many billions they would cut off their health budget, their old-age budget, their road budget and other things, when they are going to cooperate with a party that has guaranteed that there will be no more oil spending. I do not expect a response to all this today, but I am happy to – what to say – the work that needs to be done here before the 2009 elections, and we would like to see a start on that answer today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1966	We'll see how far we'll get. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1971	I understand that the Prime Minister feels that 2009 is approaching, and you can see that in this budget. The Minister of Finance said earlier today that there is almost a call for more red-green policy. I don't hear that cry. I rather see on the contrary that the voters are about to run from the red-green parts. The husband of self-confidence, which has been heard by both the Prime Minister and the other red-green speakers today, has long since I have heard in a financial debate! So there are no limits to how great this government is, how many amazing things they've done, and not least how many historical bets they've made. If that were the case, I think the voters had noticed it, and embraced the government's doer and the barn. That's not the case. That is why I would like to challenge the Prime Minister as follows: he tends at least to want to appear as a responsible Prime Minister, and now I would like the Prime Minister to mention to us five areas in this budget he thinks is not good enough, and where the voters have reason to be dissatisfied with the efforts made by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1978	First of all what the voters do: the voters in a democratic country fortunately think a little different things, so they vote on different parties and go in slightly different directions. But what we can say quite safely is that a few weeks ago, the municipal elections gave a result that is a good basis for us also to be able to secure the majority of the three government parties in the 2009 elections. Opinion polls go up and down a little, but they also provide an absolute basis for us to ensure continued majority rule after the 2009 elections. That's the one. The second is that I can't understand that it's particularly responsible for me to mention five areas where I think we should – what to say – do even more, because I think there's almost one area where we shouldn't do more than what we're doing today. I can start with transportation. It is clear that I would like even more money for transportation. The municipalities I could imagine finding even more money for. The Minister of Finance should have had even a little more money to make a socially structured tax policy or active environmental policy. Almost every area should have had even more. But we're going on in all areas, and that's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1988	The municipal elections would have given a non-socialist majority if there had been major elections, and it gave a decline for the government parties. It is possible that there is a good starting point for a better government. At least I think so, and it is possible that it was what the Prime Minister really meant. Of course, the government is able to do something good. Many things the government does, there's absolutely unanimity about here. There is 116 billion more spent this year than what was used in 2005, and there is 130 billion more in income for this country. Of course you can achieve something. What worries me now is the sector that doesn't get more money, but at the same time meets completely new and strong expectations for every single time a government council opens its mouth, and that's the municipal sector. The central government of the municipalities has now said that next year's budget line will produce a weaker growth than the budget line provided in my years as a municipal minister. Does the Council of State see that it is time to calm down their own expectations-creating state councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e1997	The government parties made a good municipal election, and we did it much better than governments do in what the foreign minister calls middle elections, also called municipal elections, in Norway. So I still think that is a good basis for winning in 2009. What should worry Solberg a little bit more is that she doesn't know what to do with a majority if she gets a majority, for the representative Solberg is going to cooperate with a party that has as its main purpose, which almost exists, to use many extra oil billions. The right has guaranteed that there will not be one penny in addition to the rule of action. That's not going to happen, and the representative of Solberg should think a lot about it. The municipalities get more money, and they get more money at a very high level, so that we are far above the municipal minister Solberg was ever close to thinking about in his municipal budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2006	The Prime Minister had several challenges here, but I must say that the water does not seem quite tidy in all areas of the red-green camp either. I want to go over to a specific question. One of the promises in the Soria Moria Declaration was that one should eliminate poverty in Norway. This promise has now gone away from the Government. In the Christian People's Party's draft budget, we've spent almost 300 million dollars. kr more than what the government has done, and the evening post writes on the tenure 17 November: ‘it seems petty that the government parties cannot even repeat the modest budget agreement of last year with the Christian People’s Party, which has a more ambitious poverty commitment than the Government’. So my question is -- I know that budget agreements are being concluded here in the house -- if the Prime Minister would have anything against a little mini-agreement that could give more to the fight against poverty than what is going to be settled today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2018	Firstly, this government has significantly stepped up the fight against poverty, on the one hand by doing the most important thing: making sure that more people come to work, that the queues at the employment offices go down – i.e. fewer unemployed people. The queues at the social offices also go down. It is the fight against poverty in its full range. We have also done more with the more targeted measures, such as: in the case of measures for people living on social security with social assistance rates, housing support and that kind of thing. There we have overall proposed NOK 1.6 billion more than the previous government. With regard to the possibilities of making changes here in the Storting, I have great respect for the fact that it is in Stortinget that kind of discussion should happen. I have noticed that the big groups of government parties have – what to say – made a good budget even better by having taken 100 million. kr and spent essential parts of it just for measures to strengthen the poverty profile in the budget. It shows that the government parties take poverty seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2025	It was a bit of a 'we alone know best' attitude towards the Prime Minister today, as workers' party leaders have had in this Chamber on various occasions before. I thought the Prime Minister, as head of a cooperative government, had gained some more respect for the fact that many parties have something to contribute to a cooperation, including in meeting with the Stortinget. A theme that the Prime Minister did not bring about was the shortage of labour in the future, which is a major challenge for our economy. We in the Left have taken the obvious unpopular position of changing the position, I must say, in this budget, by now going against the net pay system for seafarers. The Prime Minister has spent a lot of money on the big things – approaching $2 billion to a professional group that then does not pay taxes to the community. Is the Prime Minister, who is also a good social economist, not in agreement that it might be time to rethink this in a situation where we lack labour, and where does this scheme seem manifestly unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2032	To the extent that it has been perceived differently, I would stress that when I boast of the Government, I boast of the efforts of all three government parties. That's exactly what I tried to get out of my post, that what I think is particularly impressive is that three parties – SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre – that in many cases and historically have stood far apart on important and difficult issues, such as foreign and European policy, have found compromises, found ways of dealing with the issues of which we disagree, in order to cooperate on the important things we agree on – bet on common and fair distribution. So I think that some of the things we respect are just the ability of the three parties to find common solutions even where the starting point is different, because we're three different parties. My challenge was that it didn't have the opposition to the same extent succeeded. In the case of net wages and salaries, both the previous one and this government promised net wages and salaries. We're also concerned that once we've made promises, we're going to stand by them. That's an important reason why we're following that promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2039	The challenge I gave the Prime Minister instead was serious, and I had actually expected a slightly more serious answer than the somewhat frail conduct of the Prime Minister. There are many people who don't see this as a good budget. There are many elderly people with high needs for care who do not feel that this is a huge budget. There are many poor people without work skills who don't feel that the world is getting much better for them with this budget. I also noticed that one of the areas the Prime Minister did not mention in his main post was the situation of the Norwegian defence, which is serious. I want to challenge the Prime Minister on that. Yesterday, the Chief of Defense gave his annual speech in Oslo Military Society. Firstly, it became clear – between the lines at least – that he is not particularly impressed by the level of the budget, and secondly that there are significantly greater challenges for Norway, not least in view of the activity we are now seeing on the Russian side. Can the Prime Minister give a serious answer to what are the future plans of the Government regarding the defence budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2048	The President has some doubts as to whether 'flocked' is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2051	But that was a good expression, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2056	I believe that what Jensen is doing now is raising an important question: what is ‘a good budget’? Is 'a good budget' a budget where we can say that we are in all areas? That budget I think is almost never going to be presented. But if it is that 'a good budget' is a budget in which we are well in the process of achieving the objectives we have set ourselves, this is a good budget. Because we are doing well, but we are not fully targeted in all areas. For example, I think it is impressive that we are now in front of the form of 10,000 new annual works in the care of the elderly. However, there are still major deficiencies in the care of the elderly. I think it is impressive that we find almost 4 billion kroner – the strongest growth ever – for hospitals. But there are still major deficiencies in the Norwegian hospital sector. And I'm very proud that we've got many billion extras for kindergartens. But we're still not quite in the case of kindergartens. That's the way it is in almost every area: we've done a lot, but we're not in the goal, and we're not satisfied. There are still major deficiencies. That's what I tried to figure out, that there's almost not one area – not one councillor – where I don't think we can spend even more money in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2063	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2067	The Progress Party wants lower taxes and a simpler and more prudent tax system than what we have today, and it also has our main starting point for our alternative state budget. We believe that lower taxes and taxes are an important prerequisite for ensuring good and stable value creation in Norway, and thus also ensuring a good development of wealth in the future. In our alternative state budget we have a total tax and tax bill of approx. Forty - two billion dollars. It is financed by the fact that one has reduced the net expenditure in the state budget by NOK 15 billion, and then has a reduced surplus on the state budget by NOK 7 billion. In addition, a foreign budget of just over 7 billion dollars will also be available. That means, as many people have said, that we have a so-called oil money usage that is 15 billion dollars higher than what the government is proposing. With today's oil price, we're expected to have a surplus on the state budget next year of 450 billion kroner. With our arrangement, we would have a surplus of NOK 435 billion, under the condition that the oil price remains at today's level. We think it's sensible and defensive, and it won't give you any extra interest that's been spent on by others, etc. the chairperson of the Financial Committee. We also have calculations from the Statistical Central Bureau that show that our alternative state budget for 2007 would result in 0.6 pst. interest lower than the Government's plan. The most important profile in our tax system is that we want a higher deduction and a higher minimum deduction than the government has proposed. Of course, it will have the greatest effect on lower and mediocre incomes. We think it's fair and, of course, that the most possible thing is to keep a larger share of their own income. It will also stimulate greater labour supply, especially tax incentives for lower incomes, because then it will be more profitable to work extra. Taxes also contribute to the increase in purchasing power for taxpayers without having to charge large gross pay supplements. That is why we want to increase the credit card limit to NOK 70 000 and in the long term we want to get it up to NOK 100000. We found it unfeasible that a person who is willing to pay NOK 100 000 would have to pay NOK 15 000 to the community. Higher charges also have an extra special social profile. This will hit them hard with low income. That is why we are going in to reduce both the petrol tax, the diesel tax, the electricity tax and the document fee, to mention something. The government is going the opposite way, it wants to increase the fees. Among other things, the fuel oil charge is increased by 500 million. kr. Such a sharp increase in this charge would endanger jobs. And then I want to give you one example: the company Kronos Titan in Fredrikstad with 175 added gets an extra load because of this fee sharpening for next year of 7-8 million. kr. That means $40,000 per. employment. So this is a strange tax that the competitors of this company abroad do not have, and it will make it more profitable to expand abroad and liquidate in Norway. It's an unfortunate signal, and it has an unfortunate effect if it does. No one wants to put a dent on it. Norwegian workers will not be interested in it, nor will the environment suggest that Norwegian companies will be flagged to countries that do not see the environment as high and have the same environmental requirements as Norway. I also believe that if this matter is brought before ESA, the company has good chances of winning. But anyway, these were some of the improvements the Progress Party makes when it comes to taxes and taxes. These are improvements that indicate that our alternative state budget has a much better social tax profile than the Government's proposal, and will also secure Norwegian jobs far better than the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2080	The provision of health and care is of great importance to the individual's living conditions and quality of life, and therefore this area is also a high priority in the government's draft budget. This will include, inter alia: as expressed by a historical effort in hospitals, implementation of the mental health escalation plan, care plan 2015, national strategy for habilitation and rehabilitation and a contingency plan for the drug field. Sickhouses are being significantly strengthened. There's never been any further investment in the hospital sector in a single year. The increase is known for a total of SEK 3.9 billion in addition to the usual compensation for price and salary growth. For the first time after 2002, activity growth is budgeted. Among other things, it is added. to facilitate an increase in all patient treatment by 1.5 pst. from 2007 to 2008. So funds have been put in so that about 18,000 more treatments can be offered next year. The government believes that hospitals do not have to raise expensive loans to reacquire completely necessary equipment and construction. That is the background to the proposal for NOK 1.67 billion, so that a total of SEK 5.3 billion will be allocated for this purpose for the next year. If the Storting joins these proposals, we will have a very important prerequisite for the hospital reform. In this way, interest expenditure will be reduced, and thus hospitals will also receive more money to actively treat patients. Despite the very good financial situation for next year, there is no doubt that hospitals have major challenges, as I also stated in the hearing of the Health and Care Committee on 15 November. In order to achieve a financial balance for the next year, costs need to be reduced by over DKK 1 billion compared to this year. Health undertakings cannot or shall not spend more money than the Storting grants at any time. Ambulance services are becoming an increasingly important part of the emergency medical treatment chain. In the near future, we will appoint a wide-ranging group to conduct a comprehensive review of the car and boat ambulance service. That report shall be available during the following year. The size is briefed that healthcare enterprises’ pension costs will increase by approximately DKK 3.2 billion for the current year and by about DKK 2.2 billion for the next year compared to the cost level used in the preparation of government budgets for these two years. The government assumes that the increased pension costs should not be included in the performance requirement for regional health enterprises neither for 2007 nor 2008. As you know, pension costs are also a significant challenge for private non-profit institutions, which are established within the responsibility of regional health enterprises. The Ministry has recently met with representatives of these institutions, and there is no doubt that these hospitals are a very important complement to the enterprises’ own activities. It also means a lot to the treatment provision of individuals. Their situation is part of the work that the Government has started, and we will come back to how this matter should be handled further. This will be delayed in the context of the revised national budget for 2008. The government is concerned that people should wait as long as possible for the necessary treatment. About 66 pst. of all patients admitted to hospital receive immediate help, i.e. that they come in without any waiting time at all. Following the implementation of the hospital reform in 2002, the average waiting time for patients on the waiting list has been reduced by 18 days. This means that health companies have been able to meet one of the most important demands we made, and that also at a time when there is a great deal of pressure on our hospitals. But we're going to sail on. The supply of mental health is further strengthened by proposing to allocate 940 million. kr more in 2008. This comes at the top of a general increase in patient treatment, as I have explained. This meets the economic targets for the escalation plan. It is also important to say that the work on improving mental health services should be continued at sea even after the plan expires. There has been very much positive progress as a result of this escalation plan, for which there has been broad support. But we're not on target. We still need not least to focus on prevention both for children and young people and for adults, in order to identify the need to put help in place as early as possible. We must give priority to the provision of municipal services to children and young people with mental disorders and to the provision of services to adults with complex and long-term needs. Shorter waiting time for the treatment of children and adolescents with mental illness should remain a high priority. It is good that the waiting time is reduced from the second tertiary in 2006 to the second tertiary in 2007. But we're not saying we're satisfied with that. There are still too many people who don't get quick enough help. Therefore, waiting times need to be further reduced. This is why the Government has also proposed a separate waiting guarantee for children and young people with mental and/or drug problems under the age of 23. Drug addicts shall have access to services of good quality when they need it. Children and young people and those with drug problems must be caught and given assistance as early as possible. The ‘trafficking plan’ is a comprehensive plan in the field of prevention, treatment, follow-up, research, etc. If we are to achieve better results than what we see in some examples today, commitment to interaction and cooperation on several levels – between hospitals and municipalities, between the different levels of service and between public and non-governmental organisations, which are also making a great deal of effort in this area. Rehabilitation and rehabilitation are very important to many people. In the last few years, increased and targeted activity has been facilitated. The earmarked funds for the purchase of rehabilitation by private rehabilitation and training institutions have increased by 14 p.m. from 2005 to 2007. In addition, regional health enterprises have used funds from the basic frame to purchase services from private individuals, and they have increased efforts in this area in their own hospitals. Regional health enterprises spend between DKK 1.5 and 2 billion on rehabilitation measures together, and the draft budget for next year facilitates the strengthening of this effort. Having said that, we must nevertheless note, as the Government sees, that rehabilitation and rehabilitation do not have the status and performance that it should have. Now that we have presented our national strategy in this area, it is because this field needs to be strengthened. Therefore, broad cooperation between the departments, user organisations and professional communities concerned has been established and the Ministry will cooperate with private providers in the rehabilitation field on further developments. It's a quality stamp that people live longer and that people's health is getting better. But behind the positive mean we know that there are huge social inequalities. The differences depend, inter alia, on: In addition to income, growing conditions, lifestyle factors such as physical activity, tobacco and alcohol — to name a few. If we want to cancel out the social differences, we also improve people's minds. This is why the Government has put forward several strategies and action plans in areas with major public health problems. It's within COLS, diabetes, cancer, diet, tobacco prevention, and escalating plan for the drug field – to mention something. Nursing services face major challenges for years to come. We are getting older — and that’s good — and there will also be more younger users who need services. The important basic plan in this, as the Government sees it, is a good municipal economy that is absolutely necessary to ensure good care for those who need good care, a good offer. Therefore, the Government has prioritised strengthening the local economy, and revenues have increased by nearly 21 billion kroner since 2005. Among other things, it does. the target of 10,000 more annual shifts in the care sector can be achieved before 2009. In addition, the Government has presented a comprehensive and committed plan for better quality and capacity across the sector, what we call the Health Plan 2015. The main measures are a new investment grant to build multiple sites from next year. It's a holistic dementia plan, and it's a stepping up of care research funds. In addition, we need a strong commitment to competence, ethics, active care and better medical care in hospitals. I feel that there is a great deal of political consensus about the need to strengthen care and care services, and I am addressing the results of the conversations that are now underway to improve care services for those who need it in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2116	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2119	More recently, the Council of State has repeatedly mentioned that the waiting times in the specialist health service have not increased. That's why I went into the Norwegian patient registry's statistical pages before I went to the room, and I picked up the numbers. What this shows is that in the areas where we talk about those who get help in the first month, the numbers go down. Furthermore, the waiting time for all groups increases by 3–6 months – they get 6–12 months waiting time. Then I can't believe that the Council of State can stand here on this pulpit and claim that the waiting times have not increased. If we go into the mean waiting time, it has increased from 1st tertiary to 2nd tertiary from 88 to 102 days. If we look at last year, so we get with the summer fluctuations that we have every year, average waiting time has increased from 98 to 102 days, i.e. four days average increase. Where has the Council of State come from that there has been no increase in average waiting time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2124	I don't know where the representative Nesvik has those numbers. Let me first repeat that 66 pst. of all patients come in for immediate help, i.e. without any waiting time at all. It is true that since the state took over the hospitals, the waiting time has fallen by an average of 18 days. It is true that since we took over the government power in 2005, the waiting time has fallen by nine days, and the latest developments we have measured show that in the case of hospital treatment, the waiting time is unchanged in 69 days. In the case of paediatric and juvenile psychiatry, it has decreased by 10 days, and in the case of adult psychiatry, it has decreased by seven days. These are the last numbers that we have, and I have no reason not to trust those numbers. But we're going to go on, because it's a goal that patients should wait even shorter time, especially those who have the most serious diseases, and that those who are the most ill have to come in to get the necessary treatment in our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2129	Last week, the Health and Welfare Committee, and I also know the Council of State, handed over 225,000 signatures from people from all over the country demanding better rehabilitation services. It made a strong impression on me, but it does not seem that it has made any particular impression on the Government. We have been confirmed by the Ministry of Finance that there is no increase in the appropriations for rehabilitation when it is corrected for price and salary growth. So you haven't been able to give a penny more to rehabilitation, despite the fact that the government has had NOK 130 billion more to travel with from 2005 than the center-right government had. A unanimous health and care committee agreed that rehabilitation would be the next big initiative, and then my question is: does the Council see that the promise of an economic escalation should be kept, and how does she intend to do it when there is only one year left to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2136	Firstly, I can agree that there is still a way to go in terms of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. But when that's said, I don't remember in the reality description that the Right is constantly trying to give up the stand in this important area. For rehabilitation under the direction of our regional health companies has been significantly strengthened since we took over two years ago. It is also the case that the purchase by private individuals has increased by 14 pst. from 2005 to 2007. We're using our own funds that are specifically earmarked for this. In addition, the system is coming back, where more places in the private training institutions are now being filled up, and we need to further strengthen it in the municipalities. But we're doing even more about rehabilitation in hospitals now than before. We buy a lot of places in the private training institutions. And we're going to do even more there -- it's going to be filled up even more. We also need to strengthen efforts in the municipalities where people live, because there are many people who have to get rehabilitation there. But it's not right that we spend less money in this area. The truth is the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2145	The Norwegian Diabetes Association has long worked to reintroduce the overall stencil deduction for people with diabetes. The changes made in 2004 were then based on reports and letters from the Ministry of Health and Welfare of the Ministry of Finance, where it was found that people with diabetes did not have special additional costs for, for example: diet. The Ministry of Health and Health on the order has now received a new professional assessment dated 6 November 2007 – it has not been many days since – and this investigation states that people with diabetes actually have additional costs, including: for diet. I would also like to point out that a unanimous financial committee in the context of the revision expressed concerns about discrimination in the tax system for people with diabetes. My question is this: With this new professional assessment, will the Council of State, on the basis of its health policy position, believe that there may be a basis for the reintroduction of the tax deduction, and perhaps take a talk with the Minister of Finance about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2154	The professional assessment, which we now have to deal with, I can't answer it here and now. What's important about diabetes, because it's a disease that unfortunately is in very big growth, is that we have to do even more to prevent it. The vast majority of cases of diabetes, and when diabetes 2 in the past was given to particularly older men, but is now increasingly affecting younger people, in fact down to the age of 30, is very much associated with the way we live, in addition to inheritance. Therefore, it is very important that we manage to put greater pressure on what is involved in physical activity and diet — all of the things that we know work. When people have become ill, it is of course important that they get good enough treatment and good enough follow-up, and there I believe that it is a good thing to get information and to interact with the hospital and community health services. I also think that the Diabetes Association, in connection with the fact that we have recently marked international diabetes day, has made a very good contribution to how we should proceed that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2161	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2164	The most important task in the Norwegian economy now is to get the good times to last as long as possible. Tax revenue is historically high. The government has an incredible SEK 130 billion more in tax revenue than the previous government had in 2005. The Government and the Minister of Finance have drawn the winning weight and shall be judged by how it is managed. Then it is discouraging, in such a situation, to see the government's inability to prioritize, to prioritize it to the important tasks rather than just to lubricate thinly. It is time to invest in an even better future – invest in research, knowledge and infrastructure and pursue a future-oriented industrial policy that provides a basis for future well-being. It is in good times that one has to make sure that they last, by making it more profitable to work, especially when the country is screaming for labour. In good times, it is necessary to stimulate savings and investment in private ownership — ownership that will in turn lead to increased value creation and welfare through the creation of new jobs. Even with staggering new sums available, the Government does not have the power in this budget to solve health, defence, research and higher education, labour and poverty reduction tasks. And for this government in particular, the latter must be a troubling cross of thought. Despite persistent attempts by the Minister of Finance to reduce statistical differences, the rich and the poor remain equally poor, and the increased taxes largely hit the middle class, and only contribute to making ownership, value creation and job creation more difficult. In its alternative budget, the right has tried to compensate for the interception of research, knowledge and higher education through significant increases in appropriations in these areas. In industrial policy, we increase the allocation of infrastructure, remove the anti-business tax increases on ownership, remove parts of the NOx tax, increase depreciation rates and improve the transitional rules for the shipping industry. It's comforting to have a Minister of Industry who uninhibited boasts of investing 100 million. kr on strategic maritime investment, while he smoothly incurs DKK 1.4 billion from the same industry every year for ten years in the future, perhaps even in violation of the Constitution. It has been difficult to find out what the concept of ‘active enterprise policy’ really is, but it was hardly supposed to be prosecuting its framework conditions in the Supreme Court. Furthermore, the tax on ownership is increased by removing the stock discount on shares, and now SEK 1.7 billion more is deducted from purely property taxes on private ownership than under the previous government. This is done at the same time as creating state funds to provide equity to small and medium-sized enterprises – equity to the same enterprises that take DKK 1.7 billion from each year in increased taxes on wealth. In its alternative budget, the right launches 31 actions to get more people working. Companies are yelling for more labour to get the good times to last. The government should respond with active measures, but does not even seem to see the link between lower taxes and increased access to labour. Any major debate in Stortinget in the last two years has been marked by Pan-Egyrian descriptions from the government parties about the unspoiled existence that is now being experienced in Norwegian municipalities after tax reliefs have been replaced by community. But now I hear some dissonance in the howling orchestra here today. When the representative Ryan is challenged by Røres Bent Höie on next year's municipal budget, the evasive response comes that the needs will always be greater than the economy permits – of course. But that is not the case. The truth is, there is an expectation crisis in Norwegian municipalities. One had expectations of standing at the entrance of an unconcerned economic life. It is replaced by the unpleasant fact that the municipal economy for next year has a real decline in free income. And perhaps there will be more decline when the final increase in compensation of employees and pensions is available. These are the unpleasant realities that Ryan will not answer. It is already a great surprise to many municipalities that it was not as rosy as one thought. The right does not criticise the Government’s municipal structure. We think it's tight, but responsible. The big difference, however, is that, unlike the Government, we tell and acknowledge that this is a budget that requires conversions and efficiency improvements, which must be carried out continuously in the municipalities. When Jens Stoltenberg answers Erna Solberg that we spend more money on a high level and much more than the Bondevik government in the local economy, it is of course. You have NOK 130 billion more. But the municipalities cannot pay wages and live off the Prime Minister's numerical magic. I think many municipal politicians in 2008 will experience that the Soria Moria that the Prime Minister has told them that they were soon at the steps of, was not something Soria Moria, it was just a fatam organa.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2189	Care for people in need of health and care services needs to be given greater priority. The challenges are growing in the years to come. There will be twice as many older people over 67 in 2050 as today. This must be handled with a focus on the content and quality of services, in addition to increased capacity. This can best be ensured through a cross-political obligatory plan for the care of the elderly, as the Christian People's Party has long called for. The newly submitted dementia plan must be followed up with greater financial efforts in the coming years to establish, for example: protected units for all dentures that need it, to set up day-to-day facilities for home-dwelling dentures and for training measures, in order to mention something. The Christian People's Party is proposing another 50 million. to enhance the competence of the care of the elderly in the field of human resources, the development of home-based care, the relief of dying and research. Making sure that everyone gets a worthy old age is absolutely essential. The action plan for the drug field, which the Government has now finally presented, lacks sufficient financial support to improve the provision of health and care services to drug addicts. We therefore propose further investment in our alternative budget in the field of drugs, through increased funds for prevention work under the auspices of non-governmental organisations, increased grants for action for children of drug-dependent and mentally ill, increased provision for drug addicts in non-profit institutions and grants for cultural and leisure activities to ensure better follow-up after treatment. The habilitation and rehabilitation field also needs a lift. Reducing suffering and improving quality of life are important objectives. This is also a good social economy. Reduced need for treatment, care, medicine and greater ability to cope or be at work are the desired effects of good habilitation and rehabilitation. The Christian People's Party is critical of the Government's insistence on unilaterally targeting those who are sick of work, even though it is also very important. We therefore propose to strengthen rehabilitation and rehabilitation in health enterprises, including the use of services from private and non-profit institutions, and to increase the grant for treatment trips abroad. The government has promoted a variety of plans and strategies, such as: National strategy for the field of diabetes, National strategy for the field of cancer, National strategy for habilitation and rehabilitation and Action plan for the field of drugs. As long as there is little or no money with the strategies, they remain just as good goals, as in the organisations within, for example. Repeated attention has been paid to the care of cancer and diabetes. The government must therefore ensure that the necessary health strategies are implemented in different areas and not exclusively symbolic policies. Many of the private non-profit hospitals are at risk of bankruptcy because of excessive unforeseen pension costs. They must operate properly as limited liability companies, while public hospitals may continue to exempt unforeseen pension costs from the performance requirement. The private non-profit hospitals are now in a serious situation where the bankruptcy risk is in fact imminent, and it is essential that the government solves the problem both in the short and long term. The government’s proposal to resolve this, in the worst case not until the revision of the national budget in spring 2008, is not sufficient. It is necessary to clarify this immediately. Reports from the Social and Health Directorate and the Medical Association of 2007 show that the focus on the economy at the hospital level is often on the priority and quality of healthcare. Intervention-driven funding, ISF, was intended as a management tool for regional enterprises and not as a priority tool for profitable and unprofitable patients, as we see it has become today. The ISF system is used to impose performance requirements on individual service providers. This may prevent a comprehensive patient offer and thus improve the interaction between departments and levels of healthcare, which is one of the main challenges we face today in the healthcare system. Finally, I would like to point out that the Christian People's Party in the budget setting proposes that the Stortinget ask the Government to review the overall operating deficit of the hospitals, and also to launch a wide-ranging investigation into the hospital financing system that better than today's single price system captures the need for the whole of the service chain from prevention and primary health services to specialist health care and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2206	I have, of course, come to realize that many in today's debate have been concerned with the fight against poverty, and that the government meets with criticism that what we are doing is too little, and that there is no new grip in the poverty effort. I therefore intend to use this opportunity to talk first and foremost about a very important new approach, a new action that will be fully established around 2008. All parties want to fight poverty, eliminate poverty. And then I think we all realize that there is no simple grip, simple action, some hocuspocus that will help us achieve that goal. What many people are particularly concerned about is the fact that some 30,000 people in this country are living by economic social assistance. We can always discuss what it's like to live on retirement, we can discuss what it's like to live on different social security schemes, but I think we all recognize that those who live on economic social assistance for a long time have special challenges. It's not least because it's never been meant for people to live over months and years of economic social assistance. It has become an unculture in the Norwegian welfare community that people live on social assistance over months and years. Social assistance has always been meant to be a crisis aid for getting over your knees, getting help with the power bill that makes the social security non-performing – that is, the kind of short-term action that takes people on a more sustainable track. Then we see that government after government has failed to make social assistance work like this, and so there are therefore 30,000 long-term beneficiaries of social assistance in Norway today. All governments have talked about that we have to do something about. This government is the first to do something about it. It is very good that the Stortingen in the autumn has contributed to the adoption of our own paragraphs in the Social Assistance Act, which is about qualification programmes. As of 1 November of this year, they entered into force. There's some money in the budget this year, but next year we'll increase the appropriations to 230 million. NOK plus a little extra for the housing support. So what are we going to do? Indeed, in the municipalities that have established NAV offices, we can approach those who live by economic social assistance and offer them activity and action, preferably in combination with treatment if necessary, for example. in the case of intoxication. A meaningful daily activity shall not be a passive receipt of social assistance. These measures are intended to get people to work. You can go on the programme for up to two and a half years. You need to be patient. The list shall be added in such a way that it is possible to get over it, but there shall be something to go after. If you join such a qualification programme, you go from financial social assistance to qualification assistance, an offer of 2G per year that is not tested for need. That's NOK 133 000 that isn't need-tested. You get child welfare, you get it as well. If you have a child allowance, you will receive it as well. You are entitled to state housing if you qualify for it. Then you let go every month to figure out what you're going to get in social assistance. You can focus on the options. You get a fixed monthly benefit paid. And with the level of funding that is now in the budget, we, together with KS, have estimated that on average we will have 4,000 participants in the qualification programme in 2008. By the end of 2008, 5 500 will have gone from economic social assistance to the qualification programme. If you claim that this is not an action to combat poverty, that this is not a new, offensive act in relation to the group of poor people who may be struggling the most, I believe that it is a quite historyless analysis. This is the first real, real social policy action that has been taken above this group for many, many years. And I think it's important that we bring together in the debate on the budget for next year on poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2217	It's going to be line change. At the same time, the President will take note that the time for the morning meeting is soon to come, but will make suggestions that the morning meeting will continue beyond the regulatory time, so that we will be finished with the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2222	In today’s evening post, the Minister of Labour and Inclusion is going out quite strongly, signaling that he wants to return, send home, illegal immigrants who are in Norway, of course, illegal. This is a problem that has grown in recent years, precisely because measures have not been taken to combat what is becoming a difficult problem to deal with. In fact, in the State budget, the Government does not provide for increased resources from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion to repatriate, return, refugees who do not have the right to stay in Norway. So while the Progress Party in its alternative government budget more than doubles that budget line, the government doesn't do anything. My question to the Council of State is: what kind of action is it that the Council of State wants to use to return illegal refugees or immigrants when it is that he is not willing to increase the budget line?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2231	I believe that what Mr Amundsen is saying is wrong, because in the draft budget for 2008, 10 million have been allocated. extra kr for return work. That's what makes up the budget base for us now increasing the number of return attachés at the foreign stations, i.e. people who are going to be helpful just by e.g.. to provide ID documents, which are one of the main challenges for the implementation of returns. So we're getting more return-attaches in place, and we're now establishing this cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to locate illegal immigrants. In addition, we will use that appropriation to have more agreements than we have with Afghanistan to establish a return programme. We are now working in particular to set up a return programme in relation to Northern Iraq, and I think we will be able to do it in 2008. There are concrete examples that what Amundsen says is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2236	I am glad that the Council of State was so clear that in the fight against poverty there is no simple grip. It reflects a reasonable and humble view that this is a complex and difficult area – a much more humble and nuanced attitude than that of the then SV leader and current Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, who thought that poverty could only be eradicated with a pen stroke and that it was just a matter of political will. Governments have said much sensibly while he has been the Council of State, among others. He did not say to the Business of Today long after he joined: ‘Wealth regimes may suffer a fall’. And... ‘I know it’s going to be trouble.’ Further: ‘If I am going to take new steps to eliminate poverty and reduce unemployment, I have to take money from existing welfare schemes.’ When are the concrete proposals to wind up welfare schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2258	We have e.g. Taken into account in the draft budget for 2008, where we have then gone through various welfare systems related to labour market policy, and we are now proposing to wind up the waiting aid as a scheme. So it's a very concrete example that we have a review of different welfare systems. The fact that we have had a system where people who have gone for more than two years on a daily allowance have been able to move from day-to-day pay arrangements to a waiting allowance without any time limit, we believe that many have been locked in on these types of schemes instead of going through the situation we now have in the labour market to get into work. I will be very ready to admit that we have undergone many arrangements and turned many stones. But what you see is that there are pretty good reasons for most of these arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2265	The government's reversal of the health pay scheme led to an estimated 600 million. kr was re-prioritised to health and rehabilitation services and distributed between the ministries of the Council of State and the Minister of Health. This year we find that part of this, 140 million. kr, is listed with the following comment: «is subsequently allocated on the basis of experience in the development of the use of the funds and other needs and opportunities.» [[...]] It may seem that you have a fine chance of money that you at least do not know at the moment how to use it for the purpose of the budget chapter. At the same time, several rehabilitation institutions owned by non-profit institutions or organisations experience that they actually have both available capacity and sound competence in the field of occupational rehabilitation. It's a big paradox. Can the Council of State promise to be positive to allow parts of this temporarily undisposed item to take advantage of the available capacity of the private, non-profit-making rehabilitating institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2277	What has been the reason we've been fond of a lot of money is that we believe there has been a grey zone between it one can call medical rehabilitation, and labour-oriented rehabilitation, with some sliding transitions. That is why we have spent time and effort in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs in between to try to get up the boundaries in a proper way. We believe that we have now done that. In the budget line for next year, we have a clear commitment also to labour-oriented rehabilitation through NAV, and then we have it from this appropriation that is made available by the Ministry of Health. Then we have the money working on it as a goal that more sick people should get to work faster, after two main tracks, both medical rehabilitation and work-oriented rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27.ana.ud659e2282	So the line change is over. The morning meeting is over. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
