ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e66	The representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for sick leave from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad from 14 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Modulf Aukan, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Modulf Increase is elected to the Creation for the time he meets the representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e92	Modulf Agaran is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e98	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Anders Anundsen, Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Width. – Other proposals are not available, and Anders Anundsen, Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Wideth are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e108	The President of the Lithuanian Parliament, Mr Muntianas, is on an official visit to Norway today and tomorrow. He is here today – in the gallery – and it is a great pleasure to welcome him and his delegation from Parliament to the Grand Duchy. We think it is extra nice to have a President of Parliament from a Baltic country visiting, and hope he will have a useful and pleasant stay here with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e122	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2973]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e138	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State, and that no repetition be made. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e145	During the previous large-scale period, the NRK was required to convert its accounting procedures so that the periods for the payment of the licence would follow the calendar year. The reason was that the NRK was subject to VAT. The size of the budget followed this up before Christmas last year. Then a majority in Stortinget said that after the conversion, the license application would follow the calendar year, while the licensors would pay as much as before, at the same time as before and see as much television as before. In other words, the licensee should not recognise any difference even if the accounting in the NRK was changed. Someone, among others The rapporteurs, said this created so much uncertainty that in the proposal we are now considering, they would ask the Government to submit proposals to the Stortingen for the licence payment to the NRC. The premises on which the proposers base, i.e. that the licensee should not be charged additional costs or that they should have their courts weighed down, that one should follow good accounting practices and adhere to the laws and regulations, and that the licence should be in line with the amounts and with the duration of the decision, I believe that everyone here is quite a few. So it's also a little bit hard to understand what's really the essence of the proposal. As the vote shows, the majority believes that it is not necessary to instruct the Government to come back with a matter before tomorrow, when the revised national budget is presented. We've given the government a clear and clear assignment. It has been distributed, evaluated and sent by the government. If the government, after such a process, thinks it's better to do it another way, it's of course that things are put in front of the Storting. The size does not need to ask the government about it. That is why the majority in the Committee voted in favour of the proposal being rejected. Before the weekend we saw that such a matter would just come from the Government. The Minister of Culture has done the job he was charged with by Stortinget. He has drawn the conclusions and will file a case for the Storting, which takes care of the claims we made, in all cases, except that we will have to pay the licence in the future by 31 January and 31 July, and that for 2007 there will be a discount in the licence of NOK 346. I think everyone here can live well with that. A secure NRK's economy and liquidity, and a guarantee that TV viewers will see as much television as before and at the same price. I would argue, however, that all the principles which the majority of people had before Christmas were correct, and that they could be implemented in accordance with the laws and regulations, and that they would not have any meaning for the licensee. Those who have claimed otherwise for half a year have made mistakes. There have been many war headlines that may seem confusing to many, but that it does not have our own and are not. When the government now proposes what it does, it is therefore not based on the fact that someone would pay a double price or that the prices would be higher, or that someone would break laws and regulations. This is simply because one has come to realize that the best way to secure the NRK's economy is by far the best in the future and that it takes care of its licensee's rights and expectations. For the Labour Party's part, no greater achievement has been achieved in an accounting change than being able to live well with it. I believe that the Government's proposal will mainly be supported by the solid majority in Stortinget, which is listed by the licence fee as a funding basis for the NRK. It's all the most important thing. The technical device is, in such a context, subordinate to the objective of a strong and independent public broadcaster. We will be able to see that when the matter comes up here in Stortinget. The proposal we are discussing today has no support from the majority in the Committee, and we have therefore, as I said, proposed that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e168	This is a special case, which around the turn of the year led to a lot of uncertainty among the NRK licensee. It also revealed close links between the Councils of Cultural States and the Governing Board of the NRK, which is not exactly an advantage. Most surprised I have the impression that the party Right was, which had joined the government parties in this case originally. But we in the Progress Party have a great deal of understanding for repentant sinners, and have therefore given our support to this proposal for a representative from the Right and the Left. If we look at the accounting situation, it's true that the accounting correct thing is to generate income when the income is earned, that is. when the licensor consumes what he has paid for – in this case benefits during the licence period. The licence in January and February should therefore have been set off as a liability in the NRK’s accounts, as a prepaid licence. The fact that this has not been booked in the past is a breach of the Accounting Act and good accounting practice, which the NRK must bear. I also believed in the original explanation of anomalous financial statements, but the NRK has not, as far as I understand – only little knowledge of accounting. The fact that the majority of wholesalers do not understand their comments does not alter the accounting rules. When it has been claimed that this is only a purely accounting change, the Council of State, among other things. have said in several media interviews, this is a mistake, because you actually change what the licensees pay for. They have to pay twice for the same service if you don't change the rules. In any other customer-seller relationship, this would be considered unreasonable, and this is the core. The service should be governed by the Consumer Purchases Act. It is this law that should be assessed against this practice. The NRK licence or broadcasting fee must be regarded as a fee for a service or a right for a limited period. This has so far been from September to February. This has been stated on the invoice paid by the licensee. Now, as a proposition was put forward by the Government at the beginning of the meeting today, it can be thought that there will be a change in this. In my view, this proposition can only be perceived – if I have understood correctly – as being flat for the criticism that has been, and admits that it was a legitimate criticism that emerged in December from several parties in various media debates, and also here in the Stortinget. There are now questions as to whether there is a need to promote the proposal that we have made. Since the parties have not spoken on this Monday morning, we will promote it formally, and then we will assess whether it should be drawn over the day. So this proposal is being promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e185	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e188	This case has led to an unnecessary amount of noise compared to what should have been necessary. If the Storting had been invited to a discussion about what solution to put on here, I'm pretty sure we would have found solutions at an earlier time, and, as I said, it would lead to less noise. The case should have been submitted in connection with the State budget proposal. Based on what we understood, it was already discussed. There had been correspondence back and forth between the NRK and the ministry. We could then decide on this, because the alternatives that have now been at the hearing could well have been presented. I think this is regrettable both because I think it hurts the NRK, and because I think it also damages the reputation of the entire licensing system. There are several reasons why we should have had this in connection with the state budget. First of all, it is the case in itself – this is a conversion that the Storting had requested should be implemented. At the same time, we see that the alternative solutions that have been described actually represent a liquidity shift, or changes, of plus/minus 550 million. NOK – up to NOK 1.1 billion. It is obvious that this also has a considerable impact on the possibilities offered by the NRK, and on the scope for action that the NRK will move within the next few years. Last week, we heard from the broadcaster that the conversion to the digital network and part of the new initiatives the NRK wants to do will lead to a rather strenuous economy for the NRK. Then it is clear that an accounting surplus or an accounting deficit is important for the actual space for action. I therefore believe that the government has to tolerate criticism that the matter was not presented in connection with the state budget, and not only in relation to the conversion itself, but in fact also in relation to the licensing decision itself. It has to be obvious that this is of great importance. Now we understand that the government is presenting a proposition where this is presented, and where we are then presented with proposals for a solution to the matter. I see it as a meeting of the demands that have been raised by the opposition parties, and I am pleased about it. As the representative from Knudsen said, we have not been consulted on this, and I also await the statements of the Council of State, where I expect this to be discussed. It would be natural for us to come back to the question of whether we should maintain the proposal or not, after the intervention of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e207	The left is critical of the way today's license is collected. We want an advertisement-free and publicly funded channel. We believe that today's system is both socially unfair and technologically backward, but that's enough for us to have an opportunity to discuss when there's a new announcement about public broadcasting. It's not today's theme either. I want to make two points in relation to today's theme. One is the idea that someone should think that the Accounting Act does not necessarily apply to one of our channels; it is our government channel, and the license is a fee adopted in this room, so it can't be that dangerous. The media everyday is that if we don't manage to treat the different channels the same according to the laws that have to be the same for everyone, including the Accounting Act, we're out running, even in terms of having a certain similarity with the general media policy, if someone is to be treated as specifically as it was suggested for the NRK. The second is that this is called a purely accounting change. That's a very revealing statement. That means that the view of citizens is that if citizens don't notice that they're being tricked, it's okay to do that. But if the citizens notice that they're being tricked, it's not okay to do that. Here you can see that in the course of a long life the injustice of a government levy will be offset. For me, it is an approach to democracy, an approach to the citizens, an approach to the relationship between politicians and the citizens of the country and an understanding of the job we are doing in this Chamber, which is quite dramatic. So I want to say that talking about this as a purely accounting change, I think it's a pretty revealing attitude about how to conduct politics, how to view citizens and how to view democracy. With regard to the proposal that was promoted by the government parties, if anyone tries to run away from it, it is a proposal that would have tricked the citizens into paying for something they did not get. I think that's wrong, so sail if I wasn't behind the remark, I'm willing to fight hard for it not to be like that. That is why this proposal is being promoted. I am very happy if it turns out that this proposal by the Council of State has been ‘backed’ and that people are being treated properly, and not doing things with accounting changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e218	This is a matter that has received a lot of attention. It is rare for a large national television channel to arrange hour-long debates on the accounting and the periodicisation of its own financial situation, so this has probably received attention far beyond the dimension of the matter. The background for this was that the previous Council of State asked the NRC to change its procedures, so that the licensing year would be in line with the calendar year. The reason was that the previous increase imposed a VAT on NRK. As you have a VAT that is substantially changed per person. On 1 January, it is also practical that the licence collection should follow the same calendar year. In the budget proposal last autumn, the Government made no proposal on how this was to be done, as we were not ready to conclude. Nevertheless, the Committee's budgetary position provided some guidance for this conversion. It has been criticised that there has been direct contact between the NRK and Stortinget. That, I think, is a strange criticism, especially when it comes from the opposition team. After all, it must be a strength for the opposition to have direct contact with a large state enterprise. I believe, in particular, that the Left Party would have spoken in even greater letters about citizens' rights if I here in Stortinget tried to cut off individual parties in order to have direct contact with the board of directors or management of state enterprises, at least in the case of such a fundamental freedom of expression company as the NRC. And it's nothing new that a director or the management of the NRK is in contact with Stortinget. I vividly remember how the then broadcaster Bernander was very active against us in the opposition when the government parties in the previous government presented a proposal for zero increase in the license. The majority of people have said that in the cancellation, I see as a guide to how the licence conversion was to be carried out. It was to be done in such a way that the broadcasting fee was paid in the year in which it was paid. This should be an accounting change and, as it says, it should not have any meaning for the licensees. Therefore, I think it is a bit strange that some in retrospect have said that this conversion – which had not yet been completed – was going to affect the licensee, because the Storting had expressly provided that the conversion would not have any consequences for the licensee. I saw it as my task to create a model, which was not described in the staging position, but which the setting gave me a job to do, which would not have any meaning for the licensee. A lot of claims were made before we got a model. When we presented a finished model for consultation, it turned out that it was fully possible to carry out an accounting conversion for the NRK, so that the license was paid the same year as it was paid, while the licensee would not pay another penny, did not receive any less services, and that we followed the Accounting Act. It turned out that it was fully possible to implement all of this. That means that many of the claims made in squares, both by the media and by others, turned out to be incorrect. Some claimed that they had to pay twice for the same service. I heard the representative from the Progress Party said the same thing here. No, no one would pay twice for the same service. Some claimed to pay more. No, no one would pay any more, you would pay exactly the same thing as before for the same period of time. Some claimed that you should get less TV left. No, you should see exactly the same amount of TV. The representative, Skei Grande, just said that people were being tricked into paying for something they didn't get. Then I have to ask, what didn't they get? What kind of services did they get less with the model that was sent out at our hearing? You got the same amount again. It is amazing that these claims are still brought to the pulpit of the Storting when they are so 100 p.m. Error. So it was said that the NRK would get big income benefits from this conversion, that it was almost something NRK had tricked the Stortinge to do, to secure a lot more money. No, the NRK didn't. On the contrary, it has been shown in retrospect that the NRK would actually lose money on such a conversion. Then it was said that the Accounting Act was going to be broken. No, it wouldn't be. The NRK's accountant has said that the model we provided was fully feasible. Then it was said that we have misinformed the Stortinget. Then I have to ask: What incorrect information have we given to Stortinget? I can't see we've done it. Now we have found a model that better fulfills Storting's assumptions, because there was one prerequisite that it was not possible to implement, namely that this conversion should take place without the NRK losing a lot of money. We assume that it was not Stortinget's intention that the NRK would lose money on the conversion. We have now found another model, a new model, that takes care of all that Stortinget has said, and in addition, the NRK ensures the same income as the Stortinget has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e241	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e244	I noticed that the Council of State did not comment on whether one or the other scheme you could have chosen would have an impact on the NRK. So we're talking about an accounting shift of $1.1 billion. It surprises me that the Council of State does not see that perspective when he goes into this problem. Obviously, if you have $1 billion more or less to route in relation to getting out with red or blue numbers, that means a lot. It means a lot to the space of action you have. It is true, as the Council of State said, that at least the majority in this Chamber want the NRK well, in the sense that through the licence we want the NRK to have work space. It's clear that if you have one billion more or less to go with, it's important for the workspace you have, and therefore maybe also for what the license should look like, whether it should be higher or lower. We also know positively that this has been discussed before the proposition was presented. It would also be quite possible to provide a little more supplementary information to Stortinget. Those who have worked here for a while also know that when the government parties come up with suggestions for comments, it is not only likely that they have been on a trip in the department and have been quality assured, but they have been there. In any case, I have been quite convinced that some of the questions that arose afterwards, about the Accounting Act and about how this would turn out in relation to the advance and post payment for the licensee, obviously must have been looked at and evaluated. When I then heard that this has been a discussion about this for at least three months, it is quite obvious that these have been known issues, which I think it would have been very timely that the Storting had been introduced in some way. I think that there is little humility in relation to the Biggest's need for knowledge when, on such a large and comprehensive issue as this, you are not at all willing to accept that a change of 1.1 billion DKK must obviously have a bearing on licensing. I may also think that the Council of State should have been present and expressed his understanding of the criticism that has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e255	Let me first give tribute to the representative Thommess, whom I believe is one of those who have kept their heads called in this case, and actually discussed with the good starting point to find a solution that both meets the needs of the NRK for a solid economy, while at the same time ensuring that the licensee do not pay more than that for which there is reason. Olemic Thommessen was one of those who was on the note, as I believe is standing that day today. You put some premisses. One wants a conversion in which the licensee should be affected to the minimum possible. Of course, you do that if you are allowed to continue to pay the licence in the same way as before. Now it turns out that it's not possible to implement, because the NRK would lose too much money on it, so there's a premise for the economic framework of the NRK that makes this impossible. Model 1 that was sent out at the hearing would allow the licensee to continue as before, but the NRK would lose an amount of about 40 million. kr per year, which would repeat itself year after year – a rather large accumulated loss over time. That's why we had to put forward a new model, and I think it takes care of all these reasons. If you were to look back and look at what you could do differently, you might say that you might have been able to know even more clearly that the Stortinges premises were fully enforceable and that you kept the licensees in check. But when the representative from the Left is still standing here on the floor saying that this proposal would have ‘encouraged the citizens to pay for something they did not receive’, I have to ask: what was it they were not to get? If the representative doesn't come up here and explain it, then we have to consider that the statement that was added to it. After all, it is these kinds of claims that have constantly created a lack of security for the licensors. I know that it was not the intention of the Olemic Thommess or others who were on that note, to charge the licensee with larger bills, the idea was that the payment should go as before. So now we're not going to get it. Now we have to reduce the license on 1 September, as you pay two thirds of the harvest licence. Then the new bill was actually due on 1 January. It is not possible because the budget is adopted so late that the NRK will not be able to issue the licence requirement until mid-December. In this way, we must give a month’s delay in payment – until 1 February. So the condition that the payment dates are maintained as before, we can't carry out, but with the change that we're now proposing, the licensee's going to be financially equal to the one before, and the NRK is going to be financially equal to the one before – and so the Stortinge's intentions should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e265	There was a large majority in this room that gave the Government the task of making changes to the licence collection in line with what the previous magnification had decided. There was a large majority here who asked the government to make sure that this would not mean any change for the licensee. On the contrary – it should be that they paid the same as before, got the same offer as before and got to watch as much TV as before. So the government has done that job – sent out three models on the listener, drew conclusions, and made a new proposal that takes care of the whole purpose and will of the Storting when you're going to rearrange the accounting in the NRK. Even if it's been six months, it won't be like a saying, more true, and whether it's said from this pulpit, it won't be true. I thought it was a little sad, and at least silly, to say that the Storting is not aware of the laws and regulations, that one from here would adopt something that would mean that for some debts no laws and regulations, that one from here would have the intention to trick the citizens, as was said. It seems to me that I'm sad, it seems to me that I'm stupid, and I think we should stay too good to believe that our intention from this pulpit is to trick the citizens into something that they themselves don't perceive. The whole purpose was to get NRK's accountancy to follow the calendar year. It should not mean any change for the licensees, it was explicitly stated in Stortinget's comment, and the Government has followed up the provisions that were there. Then we're going to deal with the realities when she comes to treatment here at a later point in time. I think it is sad that from here we should give the impression that someone is trying to trick someone. We should stick to that for good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e270	The President will also add that saying that other people's views are 'customs' is also not in line with the language we prefer here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e273	Since we've started discussing language usage, I guess an expression like that. Nor is it parliamentary, but I do not ignore the fact that some people who hear this debate on radio or on web TV will be able to perceive the Council of State there when it has been said in the media and in several debates that this is no change, and then it has come to the Stortinget now and actually admitted that there are changes that the Stortinget must look at. We are said to be wrong about the accounting aspects of this case. Now the Progress Party's fraction is not completely green in the area of accounting and economics. Together with our two advisors, we have approx. 19–20 years of higher economic education, e.g. one with a civil economist title, one with an accountant title, one with a diploma economist title and one with a master from the London School of Economics, so I think this is something we can actually do about. The accounting practice so far in the NRK must be a manifest breach of the Accounting Act and good accounting practice. The fact that the changes that came were only accounting errors, because you're actually changing what the licensee pay for. They had to pay twice for the same service, for a period at least, if you hadn't made any changes. There is also a clear violation of the Consumer Purchases Act. If the Council of State would like to have the paragraphs, it is § 2c, cf. § 15 on characteristics, § 26 on defects and § 31 on price reductions. Further information may be obtained from the Council of State by contacting the Enlarged Group of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e282	Ulf Erik Knudsen is entitled to refer to others as ‘heads’, not in accordance with good language.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e285	I have to admit that this debate was a little different than I thought it would be this morning when I woke up. But there's a lot of things that can be like that. I'd like to explain things that seem to fall a little bit heavy for someone to understand. Making a change that others don't notice doesn't mean you haven't made the change. If it's a fixed fee you pay regularly and the one you pay to, suddenly changes the content of the giro, you've actually changed the content. It's actually like the government parties are trying to run from the note they really were with and promoted. First, the council tries to pretend what his party is doing at Stortinget, he's never heard of, never knew about and never talked to anyone about. But let me quote the comment: ‘This majority would stress that the licence is assumed to be paid per. 1 March and 1 September in exactly the same way as before.» That means that what the Council of States has presented to us is actually something quite different from what it says. It's actually a retreat from the comment. It is, in fact, a completely different proposal from that of the comment. In fact, it is a proposal much more in line with the proposal we have presented in our Document No. Eight proposals, which have now been submitted by the Council of State. And pretending that this is just a further case study of what the government parties presented as proposals in the hall is quite amazing. Then you take quite great freedoms in terms of interpreting things. I have never criticised the contact between the NRK and wholesale representatives. I think it is fantastic with all the contact, but that does not mean that I pay tribute to all the conclusions that the contact leads to. Here there has been a contact between the NRK and the Storing Group to the Workers' Party – probably with the good support of others as well – that has ended up with a conclusion that I disagree with, and I will reserve the right to be. I also want to reserve the right to think it is a bad solution for the citizens when someone suddenly changes the content of a giro after they have sent it out. Suffering if the person who pays, doesn't notice, is still the change there. I understand that it is arduous for the Council of States to be able to accommodate what the Government Parties have done, but we are going to spend enough of these four years to hold on to both the possibility of correcting magnificence representatives for what the Council of State does, and to place the Council of State in charge of what its own party members do. What he has now done is the opposite of what the government party said in the remark. What he has now done is in line with Document No. The 8 that we've been promoting, it's in line with good accounting practice, and it's in line with the other assumptions that make us have the Medie-Norway that's fairly fair. I think it's amazing that the Council of States is able to do it in the form of a criticism by us that has promoted something else, instead of saying that the proposal that was there was actually not feasible in relation to the assumptions that were in the comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e301	Of course, the representative, Skei Grande, must have his own opinions. I guess that's why she also has her own party, even though all the things left stand for, are better covered in other parties. But Skei Grande does not answer my question. She said in her first post that the licensee would pay for something they did not get. What they didn't get can't be a change in the giro. It must be a service they haven't received, and I repeat my question: What was the licensee's not supposed to have got with model 1 in our letter of consultation, with what the Stortinge said? They would get exactly the same thing as before, and what I said in all the debates after the vote was given was that this should be done in a way that makes you pay the license just like before, you pay at the same time as before, you pay as much as before, and you can see just as much TV as before. So there shouldn't be any change, and you would get exactly as much as before. So once again, we have to be able to conclude that what Skei Grande said in his first post is wrong. And not enough about it: let's now remember that Left's leader, Sponheim, went all over the front page of Today's Business and encouraged people – 2 million Norwegians – to commit crimes, namely not to pay the license. So serious was this case, and then even the committee's representative for the same party cannot stand here on the pulpit and explain what was so serious that two million Northmen were encouraged to commit civil disobedience. I think it might have dressed the left better to go up here and say that here we just took it wrong, we overreacted, we hadn't understood the matter, and if we got better, we wouldn't have made that much noise. Then I hear that the Progress Party has a great deal of economic competence. I would recommend that the economic competence be used to count on the consequences of the State budget of the Progress Party instead of on this matter, because the NRK's auditor states that the model we came up with, which could have taken care of all the premises of the Stortinget, was in line with the Accounting Act. It was even claimed in the media that it had to take a decision to break the Accounting Act. No, of course not. No decision in Stortinget repeals Norwegian law. Then we have to change the law. We can't say with a regular Roman number decision that some company or individual can break other laws we've given. Everyone has to comply with Norwegian law, and we found a model that followed the Accounting Act. The only reason we come back to Stortinget with the matter is that we were unable to create a model that also provided the NRK with the economy in that conversion. Because that's not how some people claim, that the NRK would make a billion dollars on this. The NRK lost money on the conversion. We're coming back because we just need a new licensing decision for 2007. The 2007 licence has to be reduced, and we have to change the date of payment for 2008 to 1 February and 1 August instead of 1 March and 1 September. Then we are on track for the financial year and the calendar year and have received the conversion for which the Stortinget gave the premise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e312	Step Skei Grande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e315	I think maybe if I had had an hour of speaking time here, I wouldn't have been able to explain to the council that changing the content of a giro to something other than what you really expected it to do actually leads to something. I just have to say that I am happy that I will never set up the household budget with the council, because in that case it would be a little dangerous. The council says you have to pay the same thing at the same time and get the same thing. Why, then, has the Council of State made a different proposal? Why is it so important to go away from that proposal if everything is to be equal, everything is to be fair and all laws are to be followed? Then it's just to hold on to what the government parties are proposing here in the hall! It's quite clear that it's hard to understand, because it ends up with what product you actually paid for over time, which you actually discover just giving up that proposal. I think it's important that there's actually a connection between what you've promised to give, and what you can actually give. It is possible that the Left is small, but it has become much larger since I made a choice, while the Labour Party has lost votes since the Council of State made a choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e324	Olemic Thommess has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e327	It is striking that economics are the only reason to come up with a new proposal. It has, after all, been out of consultation with three alternative solutions, and it is clear that at least there was a need for a significant improvement in relation to the somewhat general remark of the Storting. But now that economics is the argument, I just think it underscores the point that this had also had meaning for the economy that we were to decide on when the government budget was presented. My trust in the media department in the Ministry of Culture is very great. No one should tell me anything but that they put on knowledge and were able to solve the different issues that we are now facing, and that we must have done in retrospect. I find that very regrettable – it is regrettable for the NRC and for the licensing system. Then we'll have to take what the state council has said, inform and leave it there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e334	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2974]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e354	In 2009 it was 150 years since the author Knut Hamsun was born. The Nobel Prize winner Knut Hamsun is, next to Ibsen, Munch and Grieg, one of our most internationally renowned artists. There is a considerable interest in Hamsun on all continents, and it is researched and taught in Knut Hamsun's life and authorship at several universities. In other words, we are talking about a constantly engaging writer who has been the subject of research and thesis over the years and as a leading figure in biographies and films, as well as being read, admired and loved over so to speak the whole world. I have two main angles in my interpellation today. Firstly, I would like to hear how the Minister of Culture sees that the contribution of the Ministry of Culture and the Church to this anniversary can be, both in relation to what has been done so far, and in view of the role of the Department in the further work. And then I've also thought that it must be right that the Greatness contributes from time to time to debates that draw up some overall perspectives on big, national events, as it is always when we're celebrating our very best artists. The 150th anniversary of Knut Hamsun's birth gives us the opportunity to summarize and analyse one of the most comprehensive, lengthy and interesting literary debates we've had here to land. Knut Hamsun is in a special position among our artists, because the debate about him is both about his authorship and – to an equal extent – about his person. It is a debate that carries in itself the confusion and pain that we as people – especially in the years after the war – experienced: that the brilliant poems, which had given us some of the most beautiful and most important books written here to the country, could fail as heavily as Hamsun did when he stood on the German side during World War II. This is a debate that has actually been in the more than 60 years since the war, where scientists, writers and filmmakers have tried to understand and explain these two personalities who have lived side by side in one person. Robert Ferguson’s ‘Gåten Knut Hamsun’, Thorkild Hansen’s apologetic ‘Process towards Hamsun’, Jan Troell’s film on the author and Ingagen The Great Hamsun Biography of the Colloen is some of the many examples that Hamsun experts have tried to find contexts in this extraordinary human life, without saying that we have adequate answers today. What we've got, however, is the understanding that there may be some ways from the meeting with the erratic politician Knut Hamsun into a deeper insight into his authorship. In that chapter of the Hamsun debate that appeared in the national media for approx. 10 years ago, author Jan Kjærstad stated that it is not useful to look for an inner context in Hamsun's authorship or in his person. Kjærstad believes that radical and innovative lives side by side with the reactionary – both in the books of Hamsun and in his life. To make this perspective visible, Kjærstad refers to Knut Hamsun's own statements to psychiatrist Gabriel Langfeldt, who conducted the judicial psychiatric investigation of Hamsun after the war. When Langfeldt asked the author about his characteristics, Hamsun replied in attacking traditional psychology and referring to the characters in his books: ‘They are all without a so-called ‘character’, they are split and broken, not good and not evil, but both parts, nuanced, shifting in mind and in their actions. And” – he added – “I am so despondent myself.” On the basis of this brief and in no way complete review of pages at 60 years of Hamsun debate, you can ask: are we not done with this part of the debate? Should we not put Hamsun's attitude during the war and his obvious support for the occupying power behind us and just make sure that the great writer can stand before new generations of enthusiastic readers? I'm not of that opinion. When the debate on Knut Hamsun has engaged so strongly – far beyond the academics and literary circles – it is precisely because the broad-based theme concerns us as human beings in general. Of course, this has to do with our still great commitment to relations around World War II, but just as much with the understanding that this debate has some perspectives over it that are universal, and that are so absolutely pointing forward. The long-standing Hamsun debate we have had here in the country confronts us with fundamental questions about the relationship between the artist and the art, between the creative/performing artist and the artist as an actor in an ethical and political space. I am convinced that any time before or after will come into concrete contact with these questions, as long as there are artists and artists who communicate with their surroundings. That's why I hope that during the 150th anniversary of Knut Hamsun's birth in 2009, we will dare to stretch up the wide canvas and project sharp the whole picture, with the many approaches we've had and have to Knut Hamsun: to his authorship, his actions and his ideological stand. I look forward to the fact that today in the Grand Duchy we can contribute to an important cultural debate, a debate in which we can identify and raise the big and universal perspectives, which we need to bring with us in the future. And then I look forward to the Council of State saying something about the role of the Ministry of Culture and the Church in connection with the Hamsun anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e372	The Ministry of Culture and the Church wants the 150th anniversary of Knut Hamsun's birth to be marked in a way that reflects Hamsun's national and international recognition as a poet. Knut Hamsun has an important role in Norwegian art life, and it is, as the representative points out, a great interest in Hamsun, both among the people most, professionals and researchers. Taking care of this interest and ensuring that the literary heritage of Hamsun is managed and disseminated in the best possible way is an important national task. Hamsun's descriptions help to make him universally and forever up-to-date as a writer. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has asked the National Library to take responsibility for coordinating the official anniversary marking. The economic side will be assessed normally in the budgetary process. The National Library is well under way in planning and has allocated resources to carry out its tasks and prioritises Hamsun in its exhibition and event programme. The National Library, in cooperation with the Hamsun municipalities of Hamarøy, Grimstad and Lom, has established a Project Forum to plan, implement and coordinate Hamsun. In addition to the National Library and the municipalities, the project forum has representatives of the Hamsun company and the research communities. The Project Forum will both initiate its own projects and base its work on mobilising, inspiring and informing existing institutions and networks. The National Librarian has asked the respective municipalities to set up local committees to deal with localities and to make representations to the national communities. An important task of the Project Forum is to lay the foundations for common projects and to contribute to cooperation where it is natural to have common priorities. The Forum shall be a support player for the development of actions that professional environments and other actors consider necessary. Work shall focus on defined target groups nationally and internationally and, in particular, on new generations. The main focus of the 150th anniversary of Knut Hamsun's birth shall be on his literary productions and his position in Norwegian cultural history as an author. The 2009 Hamsun Jubilee shall contribute to the preservation, visibility and use of the literary heritage of Knut Hamsun. The labelling shall aim to inspire the future more than to be retrospective. The aim of the anniversary year is to spread knowledge and commitment around Hamsun's life and authorship in Norway and abroad. It is particularly important to make Hamsun available to new generations and to make Hamsun visible as an inspiration to other authors and artists. It is proposed that many different actors contribute to and take responsibility for the celebration of the Hamsun anniversary. Mobilising existing cultural organisations, institutions and networks to organise and implement Hamsun projects will therefore become an important task for the project forum. The Nordland County Municipality has decided to complete the planned Hamsun Centre on Hamarøy for the 150th anniversary provided that the State gives a total of 32 million. NOK in grants. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has so far granted 1 million. kr. I am aware that it is a commitment authority that needs to be put in place. However, this has to be dealt with in a normal budgetary manner, in the context of the usual budgetary documents submitted to the Government by the Stortinget. I look forward to a good selection of the Hamsun anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e389	I want to thank the State Council Trond Giske for the answer, and I am especially pleased that he mentioned the Hamsun Centre on Hamarøy. Now, of course, I understand that the Council of State cannot foreshadow budgetary processes, but his mention of the possibilities of state participation in the rapid realization of the Centre is both positive and – I would say – promising. Of course, a Hamsun centre that can be completed in 2009 will have a very significant impact on the many anniversary events that naturally will take place on Hamarøy. I am also pleased that the National Library has a coordinating role in anniversary planning, and that the project forum created has the representation of the important Hamsun municipalities, as well as, of course, other actors. I assume that the device chosen at the project forum means that the environments that have been most closely concerned with the great Hamsun interest and the Hamsun exposure – such as Hamarøy, Grimstad and Lom – will form the centre of gravity of the Hamsun anniversary. We don't have a lot of traditions here to land to think that the big national events can be linked to the environments outside the capital, but this time you have good reason to break up with the rather traditional way we usually set up in these contexts. Of course, then it's also important to make sure that you follow this up financially. I noticed that the Council of State took the international perspective. And that's important. In this regard, I would like to point out that over the years, the University of Tromsø has been building an international network of Hamsun researchers. The university is the only one in Norway that has its own research group working especially with Knut Hamsun. These are central to, among others: in the work of the International Hamsun Seminar held every two years in Hamarøy. The University of Tromsø has also supported several Hamsun markers in major European cities. Thanks to this effort, Hamsun-days have been held internationally for several years – in Madrid, Paris, Brussels, Copenhagen and Hamburg, to name a few. I believe that it is therefore natural that especially the University of Tromsø becomes an important partner in the planning and implementation of the anniversary, not least in view of the international anchoring that the Hamsun marking in 2009 must naturally have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e405	I fully agree with the interpellant's wish that the anniversary and celebration have an international dimension. There is a great deal of interest in Hamsun's literary output abroad. He spent time abroad. It is clear that his connections to the outside world are part of his literary production and must be reflected in the light. He is simply one of Norway's foremost authors who has ever fostered, and one of those who has reached the farthest out with their literary production. Now, of course, Hamsun's life and commitment in other contexts make Hamsun still a controversial person in the light of history. There are still people living in Norway who have memories of Hamsun’s involvement in a way that they react to today. It must be taken seriously, even when Hamsun's literary production is to be celebrated in connection with his birth. But I am absolutely sure that those who organize and are responsible for the anniversary marking will handle it in an excellent way. I hope that the anniversary marking not only looks backwards, but also looks forward, creates a reading and reading interest in new generations, restoring the qualities of Hamsun's literary work, and making new generations also see the amazing narratives and stories that Hamsun gives us. All of this can also contribute to strengthening the general cultural policy and to entering into a general ambition to make Norway a reader in the future as well. As a result, the anniversary not only helps to draw attention to Hamsun in the high-seat but also to the general literary interest and knowledge in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e414	The l50-year marking of Hamsun's birth is a fine opportunity to mark an artist who has set a trail for himself both locally, nationally and internationally. It is important for Norway as a nation to take advantage of the opportunities it has to promote our distinctive cultural personalities. There is no doubt that Hamsun was and is a raging writer, not only in national context, but also internationally. That's why it's nice that we get the opportunity here in Stortinget to discuss how we can best mark it. An anniversary gives new opportunities to increase interest in Hamsun literature and not least in Hamsun as a person. I would also like to take the opportunity to make it clear that the anniversary must not be intended to push anything under the carpet. Hamsun’s political preferences are part of the person, who must be clearly identified when marking the 150th anniversary. There must be room for and opportunities for critical reflection around precisely the political preferences. I would like to stress the importance of the fact that most of the activities and resources associated with the marking are linked up to Grimstad, Lom and Hamarøy. Central events should also be added to those locations. There I am fully in line with the representative Knutsen, who asks why it should be so that central events always have to be added to Oslo. They can just as well be added to Grimstad, Lom or Hamarøy. The reason for this is that using these places brings a natural closeness to Hamsun's life, and not least that they have built up significant competences, both individually and through their Hamsun network. Furthermore, a clear prioritisation and commitment at the sites of the anniversary will increase the motivation and scope for further development of the work being done today. I want to take the opportunity to boast of the cooperation established between Grimstad, Lom and Hamarøy. It allows for an overall focus on Hamsun, but also opportunities for specialisation, such as: based on when Hamsun lived in the various places. I am convinced that this cooperation will contribute to increased competence and activity, and I expect Grimstad, Lom and Hamarøy through the network to become a decisive premise provider when the 150th anniversary of Hamsun's birth is planned and priorities are to be made. Neither can I say anything about Grimstad and the Hamsun bet. Grimstad is in the unique position that both Ibsen and Hamsun have lived in the city. So even though the city is small, Grimstad is raging in the history of literature. The anniversary is a great opportunity to further develop Grimstad as the city of the poets. I therefore hope for even more state intervention, and in particular to realize an Ibsen-Hamsun centre in Grimstad. Realizing such a center will also allow you to move today's library. The unique feature of this library is that it was where the trial against Hamsun was held. This is to be transformed into a Hamsun museum. I think a further development of Grimstad as the city of the poets will be a enrichment not only locally. It will also make sense through national and international glasses. There is a high level of involvement for this local, regional and national level, with a range of activities and bets every year. But we're impatient, we want to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e433	It's beyond any discussion that Knut Hamsun is one of our great writers. And there is no discussion that in 2009 it was 150 years since Knut Hamsun was born. What might be more special is that there is a major member of one of the government parties who puts this interpellation on a theme that could be discussed directly with their government council. It is important to take care of the cultural heritage, of which Knut Hamsun is definitely part. But when we look in the 2007 budget at chapter 320, item 73, we see that the state has granted 32 million. kr to a Hamsun centre in Hamarøy, assuming that the county and municipality are in with the corresponding, and that the entire Hamsun centre has a total budget of 80 million. kr – only in Hamarøy. Everything doesn't have to be in the public domain. Sure we're going to mark Hamsun's birth, and in a few decades we're going to mark Hamsun's death. Hamsun is a very dear writer to me, ever since I already read Victoria in the late 1960s, and Geisler in the Greed of the Land taught me to think a little about what conditions are important in life. As I said, we all agree that Hamsun's birth is worth a mark. But why does the state necessarily have to go in with additional funds? When the Hamsun-center decision was made in its time, it was argued that it was soon an anniversary, and that it was desired that the centre be finished. Hopefully that'll do if you're able to put that in place over the last 20 million. kr which was missing when the Stortinget dealt with the budget for 2007. In order to celebrate Hamsun, one must probably also see other ways after financing. What about the publishers? What about the film producers? What about all the others who have made money on Hamsun's amazing and incredible lives? These should give back a little bit to a writer on whom they have earned a lot of money. In addition, there are considerable public project funds that can safely be used for such an anniversary, without the Government providing additional millions. There are great ambitions for this anniversary, I see. International, national, regional and local labelling is required. Then we see that you need a lot of resources. But I think maybe before anyone goes in and gives a few million to this Hamsun project and the anniversary, before we go into the level of ambition that it's put up to here, that it would be an advantage if we first got the price tag -- the final one, that is, in the Ibsen year. I think that the price tag of the Ibsen year in total is going to be much larger than what was initially foreseen. Knut Hamsun is to be celebrated in 2009 – just as Grieg, Hauge and Tveit are to be celebrated in 2008. Of course Hamsun is to be celebrated. No doubt about it. I hope there's going to be celebration in Lom. I hope there's going to be celebration on Hamarøy. I hope there's going to be celebration in Grimstad. And I hope it stays with the help of good sources of funding, outside the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e448	Let me first thank the interpellant for bringing this matter forward. I agree with Mr Woldseth that the representative has probably had a good opportunity to discuss this with the Council of State, and I believe that she has really done so, so that the Council of State can provide a useful response when he comes here. I think it's great that this is brought up. It is in particular timely in relation to propulsion. We also know that the representative Knutsen has a close relationship with Hamsun in so many areas, not least through her own artistic expressions, which I would like to credit from here. I agree with everything that has been said about Hamsun's central position in Norwegian literature and Norwegian cultural history. I don't need to spend any more time on it. I think, unlike the representative Woldseth, that it's a matter of course that the state has a responsibility in relation to the management of the authorship of one of our three Nobel Prize winners in literature. It's not just that we can leave it to a publisher with the publisher's own -- in this context, I think it has to be -- small, limited resources. Although Gyldendal is quite a big enterprise, it's obvious that here we have to take a responsibility, and here we have both an opportunity and an obligation to manage a cultural heritage, which is not only our own, but is also part of the world's cultural heritage. I notice that the National Library has been pointed out, and I think in particular that there is a good solution. But it demands that we actually build quite broad networks, and I think I agree with the representative Woldseth: let's not forget the publisher and the other private actors inside this picture. I noticed that of all those that the Council of State did not mention, the publisher and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were. These two were actually not mentioned. As I have heard from the posts since, I expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be a mere forgetfulness, and I hope that when the Council of State talks about the networks, of course, it also applies to the publisher. I think an experience we have from many literary markings is that without an active contribution from the publisher, there won't be any fuss about this. I think it's exciting with the international perspective, and of course we're going to use the expertise we have here to land on it. But I would say that we should also use some of the expertise available in other countries. Hamsun has been looked at so much with Norwegian eyes. I think on such an occasion we will have great pleasure in seeing Hamsun with the eyes of other countries. In this way, it could be thought that the network in Tromsø has the ability to implement it. Then I will also make a visit to Grimstad. Grimstad has done a great job of facilitating his Hamsun/Ibsen marking – or his Ibsen program, I almost want to call it – and has a very exciting concept at its center. It is an area where the state will also have to contribute on the building side – perhaps also on the operation, we will see that afterwards – but at least on the building side. We'd like to support that. As far as Hamarøy is concerned, the Right has included funds in its proposal for a State budget, and it is interpreted as a positive greeting from us on this matter. In Lom, Hamsun-stugue – which is not much larger than the president's pult here on the Stortinget – may not be a big construction, but let's not forget for that reason what was Hamsun's starting point on Lom. I think it's a great idea that the whole country is brought in through these different places that have been part of Hamsun's life. I hope that we will use the experience of the Ibsen year, not least in relation to the international part of this, and I also look forward to the fact that, in later crossroads – perhaps the first should be the state budget for the autumn – we will have an opportunity to set out a course and contribute where we see that the good ideas lie. Because at the end of the day, it's all about which environments come up with good, building ideas, which actually involve them in glowing with this authorship. In doing so, we also best safeguard our national interest and responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e469	Knut Hamsun was born as Knud Pedersen in Wågå in Gudbrandsdalen on 4 August 1859. Three years later, the family moved to Hamarøy, Northland. Hamarøy became Hamsun’s childhood kingdom. Here he grew up, and here he felt at home. Hamsun left Nordland as a 20-year-old, but returned to Hamarøy as a writer and lived for some time at the farm Skogheim, together with his wife Marie and the children. The landscape and the environment in Northern Ireland became the source of a wide range of stories. His literary breakthrough came in 1890, with Starvation — a book that many consider to be one of the most important books in Norwegian and European literature history. And in 1920, Hamsun received the Nobel Prize in Literature for the Greed of the Land, a myth of creation and a civilisation criticism as it came, was read as a gospel of peace. Hamsun's sympathy with the occupying power during the war has caused Hamsun to have long been a national and cultural trauma. Therefore, Hamsun's topicality lies not only in his greatness as an artist, but also in offering the public a sustained debate on the relationship between fiction and society, on the role of art and artists. Hamsun is being read today as one of the most masterful writers from the late 1800s. His goods are love descriptions, his vitality and irony, satirical civilisation criticism, humorous folklore and word art have brought him readers around the world. SV has worked for a long time and is very happy that the Hamsun Centre is now becoming a reality, and that Nordland County has decided to start construction work with the Hamsun Centre with a view to completing the important 150th anniversary of Knut Hamsun's birth in 2009. SV is also very pleased that such an important centre is added to Nordland, which is fully in line with the Government's cultural initiative throughout the country, and a focus on the cultural initiative in the north, especially. Knut Hamsun is one of our greatest literary artists, who deserves to have their own centre. The Hamsun Centre in Hamarøy has been on the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church's list of important national cultural buildings, and the Stortinget has on several occasions highlighted the importance of funding falling between state, state and municipality, so that plans and progress can be maintained. SV is very pleased that the Council of State is giving such positive signals here today. Unlike the Progress Party, SV believes that it is essential that public authorities are responsible for maintaining and further developing art and cultural institutions in order to ensure a diverse art and cultural life. In the development of Norwegian society, cultural policy needs to be given greater attention and integrated into overall social planning in order to meet the growing demand for high-quality artistic and cultural services. The Hamsun Centre in Hamarøy will represent and meet these needs and become an important meeting place where the audience can have experiences and acquire knowledge and understanding of contexts in local, national and not least internationally. SV looks forward to marking the 150th anniversary of one of our most internationally renowned artists. We want it to be a multiplicity and successful celebration, which has also been the interpellant. We want the whole country to be used, and we are happy!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e490	When big artists celebrate, we celebrate them. We mark them because we're proud of both having had, but also having people with artistic skills between us, people who are being noticed, not only here at home, but also abroad. We do it to give status to the artists and so that young people with artistic abilities can get attention and praise if they choose to use their abilities. With that, we hope to facilitate more high-quality artistic expressions in the future as well. Knut Hamsun is one of our most recognized artists. At the same time, like many other artists, he was a contentious person. But Knut Hamsun was not only contentious in his day, he has also been disputed in retrospect. Few will ask questions about whether Hamsun is a great artist, some may be able to ask questions about whether it is right to do great honor to such a contentious person in the light of the hold that he had, and the political point of view that he can measure. And then there's no way we're marking. It's Hamsun who writes and the artworks he's got in mind, which we're marking. Hamsun's authorship is considered one of the most significant authors of Norwegian cultural heritage. Hamsun's works are met with considerable interest and a large audience internationally. It is natural and correct that Hamsun is selected. It is the National Library that has been entrusted with the marking in cooperation with the relevant municipalities, cultural institutions and other actors. Hamsun through life offered several places in the country. To say that Hamsun thus complied with the slogan of ‘making use of the whole country’ may be to draw it too far, but this has led to the recognition by several places in the country of a special ownership of Hamsun. We in the Center Party expect it to be reflected in the selection that is to be held. It is positive that the three Hamsun municipalities have entered into a partnership and that one of them has secured local anchors attached to these municipalities. The centre party also found it positive that the Ministry of Culture has a focus on the anniversary and the important work being done on Hamarøy in Northern Ireland in relation to the planned Hamsun Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e508	First, I would like to thank the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen for raising this issue, which is very important. It has been said very well, and many good minibiographies of Hamsun have been presented in this debate. I can join all the good words. Now, when Lillehammer’s literary days are going to list the best books, it’s interesting that Hamsun is the one that is most often repeated on most of the proposals for such a list. Maybe it's what's the great advantage of Hamsun, that there's so many who own him. There are many who feel part of his literature as part of his own awakening. Also geographically, he is owned by so many, both in Grimstad, in Hamarøy and in Lom – yes, we in Oslo can actually see that we own Hamsun a bit, since he has written a book from this city that helps to express the view of the city. If you've been to Stratford-upon-Avon, or you've been to Isla Negra to Pablo Neruda, or where you've been to all the places that have tried to develop places related to writers, you can see the incredible potential of having such an engine. It's also very exciting about using culture as an engine in the development of a district. I'm impressed by both Grimstad and Hamarøy, which are the two I know best about the plans for. I see both the Hamsun Centre on Hamarøy and the poem town of Grimstad have amazing plans to use culture as an engine in district development. I am amazed that the Progress Party does not see the possibility that the development and development of a district can be started by using artists as an engine in that way. Of course, there's a lot of private actors that can be drawn into it, but the very point of using an artist as an engine is that you get the opportunity to develop what's around business interests. Then Hamsun is a composite human being. The fact that his story is pretty close in time, makes us think a lot about the things we don't like so much about him. In fact, most artists have a complex personality. It doesn't make them worse artists, but it makes them more interesting people to look at in a historical perspective, as well as with Hamsun. I think it is important that all parts of him are involved, in order to understand and interpret what he stood for as an artist as well. Then I also think it's a little strange to disconnect the different parts of the Hamsun people and say that it's just the artist we're going to look at, when we know that it's the whole human being that's actually behind the creation of the art. I think that in future experiences will be put more and more in the center of what people want to carry on in life. How much food we get into the refrigerator is limited, how many sofas we get into the living room, but it is unlimited how many experiences we can have. That's why I think using art and culture as an important driving force for developing small and large places is a very exciting way of thinking. To draw out another artist who is close to my heart, Olav Duun: It is also important to know where Shakespeare did his most private things, if you are willing to pay a guide to get it told – the art is so much in the center that you don't get more involved in the processes around it. To us duun-lovers there is a fixed history from Namdalen. It's about the Dun company that came up to Namdalen from Oslo and lightly after Svarthammaren, which is a significant geographical unit in Duun's dictatorship. When they didn't find it, they were a little disappointed, and the brother of Olav Duun said, "I think he was so fit for poems that he was able to find on a black hammer." It is important that in the commercialisation of an artist — using him in district development and in development geographically — one does not forget the art and the driving force that makes a writer write.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e523	Thank you to the interpellant Knutsen for addressing the theme «Hamsun» for discussion at such an early stage before the 150th anniversary of Knut Hamsun in 2009. Hamsun is not a new theme in Stortinget. In connection with all the budgets since 2001, I have been involved in writing about the value of Hamsun's authorship and about a centre on Hamarøy in Northern Ireland in memory of the author. Hamsun, or Pedersen, as he was called when he came to Northland as a three-year-old, later took the name Hamsun, after the home of Hamarøy. The family met what we call the 'construction animal' when they came to Hamarøy. The shelters were immigrants, had a different background and talked and dressed differently. The family had bought land on Hamarøy, but Hamsun remained a poor peasant boy in all his growth. He sought solitude in the woods and fields and dreamed and fantasized away from the life he lived. Throughout his life, Hamsun was a troubled soul. Many of his books are written in hotels, in pensioners, and in remote farms, but the impressions of growth in Northern Ireland he never forgot. They gave him raw materials for a lifetime's dictatorship. The place, the nature and the surroundings made him return to Hamarøy from his home in Grimstad later in life. The kingdom of Hamsun, as it is called in the mouth of the people, is fertile, lush and mountainous. Here, people have found life savings in the excess of nature since the Stone Age, and there are traces of hamsunish merchants along the entire ladder. In Norway, we are good at marking large events and large Norwegian cultural personalities that have a name far beyond borders. Hamsun blends naturally into the sequence. That 2009 will go into the history of the Hamsun year is natural, and it is also natural that many activities will take place in Lom, Grimstad and Hamarøy. In 'Hamsun's kingdom' in Hamarøy, they have celebrated Hamsun with a festival every two years since 1982. Then there will be thousands of people coming to immerse themselves in the poetry of the author and the Nobel Prize winner, and not least in his growing-up environment and in nature. Everyone knows that Hamsun sympathized with the Nazis during World War II. But Hamsun Cinema None The Styroof Colloen believes that the King has forgiven Knut Hamsun's national saviour, by quoting from Hamsun's last book "Paa Recreated Paths" during the government and Storting dinner in 2003. Knut Hamsun's life and life are still in the spotlight. Some think he should have a street in Oslo named after him, and some think it is important to develop a psychoanalysis of the author. Both of these proposals seem unnecessary to me. What is now necessary is to build a well-designed Hamsun-center in Hamarøy, designed by the American architect Steven Holl. The building will be a Hamsun settlement, concrete in an architectural sense. It will be characterized by strange and surprising spaces, where perspective and light will form an inspiring framework for the exhibition. It'll be a very spectacular building. In line with Knut Hamsun's poem, the exhibition will surprise, break with people's expectations and challenge given performances. The exhibition shall be developed in cooperation with literature researchers, historians and interaction technologists and organised in several languages. Children and young people will have their share, not least through the cultural school bag, which stimulates literacy and narrative fantasies. The Hamsun Centre shall become a new national and international travel destination. The municipality, the county council and the business community have contributed their own. Now only the appropriations from the state remain. People in Hamarøy and the County Municipality are now setting strategies for 2009. I know that the Council of State is concerned with both Hamsun's dictatorship and a distribution centre in Hamarøy. The state funds will have to come soon, so that the centre will be ready for its anniversary in 2009. It will then be one of the largest and most successful contributions to the anniversary of a Labour Party Council in the Ministry of Culture and the Church. Thank you to the Council of State for the positive words that came at first!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e551	First, I would like to thank the interpellant who has addressed this topic, and asks the question: What can the Ministry of Culture and the Church contribute to the 150th anniversary of Knut Hamsun? I'm glad that the Council of State so clearly outlined the framework of the event to take place in 2009, that we're getting an international dimension, and that we're getting one of our most profiled writers in recent times. I want to focus on what has happened in the work of realizing a Hamsun centre in Hamarøy. This is a matter that has been worked on locally and municipally for almost 15 years. The municipality has put in place its economic part, the county has done the same. The budget included a sponsorship income that was a little difficult to get in place, because the sponsor wanted the government contribution to be clear and clear in order for them to contribute. This has now been solved in such a way that the county has guaranteed a full sponsorship pot. Then it's exciting to see what the council will do in the time that's coming. Like previous speakers, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the famous American architect Steven Holl has now drawn a complete Hamsun Center. It becomes a good symbol of the author and his life's work, in an area where the author and his books have been strongly influenced by the people and the nature he has met. That's exactly why it's so important to get a Hamsun centre in this area. The framework around the Hamsun Centre is the best, and the sponsorship contributions are now formally put in place through the county guarantee. That's why I hope we can get the last piece in place – a final clarification from the ministry that the government contribution of 32 million. kr is clear and that construction can start. We have very little time to realize such a construction within the time frame that remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e564	First, a little clarification in connection with the comments of the representatives Olemic Thommessen and Karin S. Woldseth. So it's not special that representatives from the government parties bring matters into the hands of their government councils in the form of interpellation. It's not that we're not talking to the state councils, or that we can't deal with issues in exclusive or fractional meetings. It's because we want to bring matters into the Storting House for a broader debate. I am pleased with the debate we have had today. I would like to thank the Trond Giske State Council and the representatives who have participated and who have contributed to a good and constructive debate on the Knut Hamsun anniversary in 2009. The debate on Hamsun, his role as an artist, national and international, goes hand in hand with the debate on his obvious position during the war, and his ideological position both human and artistic. It is in many ways a difficult debate, but it is nevertheless important. Taking all this complicated debate in connection with the 2009 anniversary doesn't mean we're making the artist Hamsun less – on the contrary. We get a wider approach to Hamsun's authorship, and thus the possibility of a deeper understanding of his greatness as an artist. In addition, it gives us an opportunity to raise some superior perspectives in understanding the relationship between art, artist and society. It's a perspective that's most forward-looking. Then it's also important, as the Council of State said, that the anniversary gets an international anchoring, and that we use the international network that is already established here to land, not least through the work done at the University of Tromsø. It is to be hoped that the debate on the arrangements for the anniversary of 2009 to mark Knut Hamsun’s birth can gradually go into many public spaces. Then it will be important for us in Stortinget to have a good dialogue with the Ministry of Culture and the Church on the financial framework for this anniversary and how much the state will contribute. It is quite clear that the state must have a superior responsibility for such an anniversary as this, depending on whether it is natural and conceivable that, in addition, funding is obtained from several sources as a supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e577	I would like to thank the interpellant for giving both myself and Stortinget an opportunity to illuminate the Hamsun anniversary by having a broad debate in Stortinget. In this way, you're actually involved in making the anniversary bigger and more important. I think it's positive that we get such a debate, which, of course, also reveals an engagement in many parties in relation to Hamsun's work and the significance of it, and how we can help to create new information and knowledge and disseminate it to new generations and interested ones. There have been many good ideas, suggestions and points of view in this inter-pelling debate, which we will of course take further into account in preparing the anniversary. I would like to stress that in our contacts with the National Library we have said that there are four equivalent anniversary sites that form the basis. It is not the case that the major events should be reserved for the capital, and the small ones should be added to the districts. On the contrary, as the representative de Ruiter said, it can be fully possible to add large events also to small places. I hope that the commitment shown in today's debate will also manifest itself when we get the budget space for a Hamsun Center, when we're going to set up an anniversary program, when the Storting is invited to participate in various big and small events, so that as government and greatness we contribute to giving the national dimension of the Hamsun anniversary that such an anniversary should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e586	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e604	The issue of State-Church relations has been on the agenda for the Norwegian social debate for over 100 years. On the political agenda, the matter has been two times earlier in the post-World War II period, and we are now in the third round. In the old days, a person's age was calculated for 30 years, and it might look like this happens once every human age. It began in 1945, in the light of the experience gained during the occupation period on the relationship between state and church. A large, public church commission was set up that worked for several years, and the Stortinget finally considered a proposal for a new law on the Norwegian church system, in 1953. Politically interesting at the time is especially – and this was during the period when the Labour Party had a purely majority in the Stortinget – that the Labour Party in the Stortinget turned its thumb down for the proposal of its own government and did not want to perform as extensive church reforms as the Government had proposed. The next time was in the mid 1970s. Then the Sivertsen Commission delivered its statement. Following a comprehensive consultation round, the Government issued a major report in 1980, and the Stortinget completed it in May 1981. At that time, it was agreed that there was no basis for making changes to the Constitutional Paragraphs dealing with the State Church Government, but one wanted to go as far as possible within the framework of the Constitution, in the direction of delegating authority to its own church bodies. At the time, the then State Council Einar suggested that something be created that he called the Church's annual meeting. The Storting cut through and called it the Church Meeting, and after that, the Norwegian Church has had a top representative body, the Church Meeting. Now we're in the middle of the third round. The grant committee did its work exactly 30 years after the work of the Sivertsen Commission. In the Gjønnes Committee, there is a majority of 18 out of 20 members who agree that the time is ripe to wind up the Constitutional Framework around the State Church Board. Let me stress that the investigation that was launched in the setting-up of the Gjønnes Committee had a unanimous growth behind it. The only thing that led to disagreement in the Storting was whether the Commission should be appointed partly by the Storting, partly by the Government, or whether it should be a purely government-appointed commission. There was full agreement on that. The sample was representatively composed, and the Stortinget adhered to the mandate of the sample. When 18 out of 20 members of such a broad body agree on the crucial point, namely that the Constitutional Council framework on the State Council of Churches should be phased out, no insignificant weight should be attached. In terms of changes to a historical perspective as long and profound as the relationship between the Norwegian Church and the State is concerned, it is important to achieve as broad a cross-political consensus as possible. My interpellation is based on the fact that all the way through, in all three rounds I have described, there has been one common premise that all the parties have assumed, namely that the Constitutional Framework on the State Council of Churches constitutes a whole. It is not possible to pick out some building blocks in this framework. It is – to say it in modern Norwegian – a ‘take it or leave it’. This has been the premise through all investigations and through all rounds of political treatment in government and growth up to the present day. As I have pointed out in the interpellation text, it is very often felt today that in the public debate it is argued that the Basic Law § 2 is a general purpose paragraph for the Kingdom of Norway. It's historically a misunderstanding. That's not how it was thinking of Eidsvoll in 1814, and it's never worked like that at any point in history after that. If anyone had been in doubt on that point, at least the Supreme Court judgment in the Børre Knudsen case from 1983 shows that this has been raised beyond doubt.The Supreme Court states that what can be read from the Basic Law § 2 is an obligation on the part of the State to maintain a state church service, and that the basis for the administration of the Church is a specific definition, namely that of the Evangelical Lutheran religion, and its norms are more specific by reference to other law – in practice Kristian V's Norwegian law. At this point there has never been any legal doubt as to what the content of Section 2 is. It is desirable that the Stortinget, when it comes to getting a big message, be presented with the issues as clearly as possible. Therefore, it is crucial political issues, this time as in the past, whether one wants to maintain or liquidate the State Church Board. Or even more precisely, if you want to continue a system in which the Norwegian Church is incorporated into the Norwegian State as one legal person, or if you want to establish a system in which the Norwegian Church is a separate legal entity in line with all other religious and life views organisations in Norway. The hard core of the state church government is not § 2, that is § 16. It is Section 16 that defines the contents of the State Church Government. That content is almost boundless — i.e. The King is commanded to administer all aspects of the Church's life. It is on the basis of the provisions of Section 16 that authority has been delegated to the Church Meeting and to other specific church bodies. Section 16 necessarily follows Section 4 which obliges the state to profess the public religion of the state and enforce it. The provisions relating to the public religion of the State in Section 2 are, by law, nothing more than the necessary basis for the further provisions on what the State Church Government is dealing with. If that, when that time comes, is a majority in the Great Britain that wants to continue the state church regime – i.e. § 16 and § 4 – in my opinion, it does not make sense to hold any further debate on changes to Section 2 and even less to make extensive investigations on what section 2 might look like, because if you want to continue the state church administration, the current section 2 is a necessary anchoring and home. It is possible, figuratively speaking, not to remove the pedestal of a building and insist that the building otherwise remain standing. It will at least cause significant damage to the sentence. That is why I have found it timely to give the Storting a chance at the moment, after all parties have carried out their national meetings where this has been partly on the agenda, and before the process of the big picture is started, to give the Storting an opportunity to express itself on this, with the aim that the Stortinget will have the most possible alternatives and the most clear possible issues to address in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e634	The Prime Minister has asked me, as the Council of Churches, to respond to the interview of the representative, Inge Wohnning, on behalf of the Government. The interpellant raises a number of questions relating to the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Constitution and this paragraph in conjunction with other paragraphs of the Constitution. All these issues will, of course, be discussed in depth in the forthcoming big-time communication, which is scheduled to be presented to the Stortinget at the end of this year. The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Constitution states that «The Evangelical-Lutheric Religion remains the public religion of the State». The word ‘remains’ indicates the line back in history and provided a basis for the underlying ecclesiastical code of the exclusivity to be continued after 1814. In one period of violence, the obvious expectation was that the people of a country would share the king’s or prince’s religion. The king's obligation to profess evangelical Lutheran Christianity under Section 4 of the Constitution therefore has a close connection with the wording of the State's religion in Section 2. Paragraph 2 of the Constitution puts the State in a special relationship with the Evangelical Lutheran religion. But it's not in 1814 that this ratio comes first to its expression. The content of the term is given in the Norwegian law of 1687, second book, first chapter. The Scriptures listed there — the Bible, the apostolic, Nikken, and Athanical creeds, the "Augsburg Bekiende" and Luther's little catechism — are still the formal basis for the doctrine of the Church of Norway. The listing of confessional writings in the Norwegian law 2-1 is part of the state church as a legal system and is closely linked to the second paragraph of the Constitution, without, as usual, having constitutional status. It is common to assume that changes to the basis of confession can thus be made by the Grand Duchy by legislative amendment or by the King of the Council of Churches in accordance with the Constitution § 16. So far, it hasn't been time to make any such changes. The designation of the State's public religion by the Constitution is a specific feature of the Norwegian Constitution. In Sweden there was a similar wording on the country’s religion in the Constitution of 1809, but a new constitution adopted in 1975 omitted this wording. The Danish Constitution simply states that the Evangelical Lutheran Church is the Danish People's Church and that the State supports this church. In 1814, when the Constitution was passed, there was a coincidence between citizenship and church membership. This changed beyond the 1800s. The first dissident law in 1845 indicated that it was possible to be a Norwegian citizen without professing the Evangelical Lutheran religion. In the years that followed, and up to the 1960s, there was only a small proportion of the population outside the Norwegian Church, but the situation has changed a lot over the last ten years. Today is about 17 pst. by the population either belonging to other religious and life-view societies, or not members of any religious or life-view society. The principle of freedom of religion has gradually become more pervasive in society. The provisions of the Constitution that exclude certain beliefs were subsequently repealed, but it was not until 1964 that the principle of freedom of religion was explicitly incorporated into the Constitution as the new first paragraph of Section 2. Thus, the principle of public religion and the principle of freedom of religion were regulated in the same constitutional paragraph. Although, in principle, there may be a tension between the two joints, it has proved possible in practice to combine a state church system with individual freedom of belief and life, and a great deal of equal treatment between the different religious and life views. This has been guaranteed by specific legislation, both the 1969 Act of the Faith Society and the 1981 Act of the Vision of Life. There are differing opinions as to whether the repeal of the second paragraph of Section 2 would result in the abolition of the State Church System. Some people think, like the interpellant, that this is the very support of the state church system, while others think it is fully possible to maintain the King's church rule even if the link is removed from the Constitution. The national meeting of the Workers' Party has taken the last interpretation into account for its decision. The question will be thoroughly addressed in the Storing Message. The wording of the second sentence of Section 2 of the Basic Law also imposes on parents who are members of the Norwegian Church an obligation to raise their children in evangelical Lutheran religion. Although the provision may have a certain symbolic function, it has no legal significance for parents today or for government authorities. The interpellant indicates that it is often claimed that the Constitution § 2 is to be understood as a general value paragraph for the Kingdom of Norway. The sample of which the representative was a member writes about this in NOU 2006:2, The State and the Norwegian Church, the following: ‘In the constitutions of other countries, it is not uncommon to start with some form of value paragraph determining the country’s value base. On the basis of its position in the Constitution, the second paragraph of Section 2 may appear to be such a value paragraph, and it has been understood by many." – I underline: this is how it has been understood by many. – ‘Historical is not exactly correct. For the founding fathers of Eidsvoll, the point of § 2 was not primarily to specify an exhaustive value base for the state, but to continue the public church system. [[as democracy and equality of law]] Other values were laid down elsewhere in the Constitution and were considered as equally central. Therefore, the second paragraph of Section 2 cannot be considered as a Paragraph of the Basic Law. No such single paragraph exists. However, there is reason to note that in the last world war, Section 2 was used as a value paragraph against the Nazi regime.’ The work on the Storing Communication will assume that the second paragraph of § 2 of today’s law is primarily about the Church Government and is not a value paragraph in general the rest of the Constitution. The paragraph, in our understanding, is not, either, a paragraph overarching the other constitutional paragraphs dealing with the Royal Council of Churches. The fact that Section 2 of the Constitution is not a binding value paragraph does not necessarily mean that the Constitution or the law as such lacks value anchoring, as some later to believe. Under the Constitutional Law of 15 July 1994, the obligations of the State under human rights were incorporated as a new Paragraph 110(c). Human rights are based on a commitment to certain values, and the state has obligations to act in accordance with them, as established by international treaties. Although it is both correct and legally uncontroversial to state that the second paragraph of the Basic Law § 2 is not to be understood as a value paragraph, but as a church paragraph, it will not be an exhaustive description. The Norwegian Constitution has meaning that goes beyond the legal framework. It should not be under-communicated or underestimated in the forthcoming merger treatment. The size should take into account that many in some sense perceive the wording of Section 2 as a value formulation. We cannot fail to relate to the fact that many, including in the political parties, place great emphasis on the symbol function contained in Section 2. Some believe that the provision of a public religion sets out some value priorities that it is important to take care of. Others again regard the provision as an undue monopolistic of the concept of ‘values’ and consider it to be restrictive on which basis is valid for ending up the state community. The symbol function of the Basic Law Section 2 means that the Storting should discuss whether it should be changed from being a church paragraph to becoming a value paragraph. It's quite clear that it's going to be giving the paragraph a different function than it has today, but it might be better suited to the perception that many people have. There is little tradition of the Government proposing the wording of any new provisions of the Constitution. The usual thing is that proposals for amendments to the Basic Law are promoted by large-scale representatives as private constitutional proposals. The majority of the Gehönes Committee proposed that the provision of Section 2 on the State's public religion be repealed as a known fact. The Labour Party also took part in its national meeting. Various majority and minorities in the Committee of the Regions also proposed new provisions to replace the second paragraph of Section 2. It would be natural for the Storing Communication to present the different options available and discuss their legal consequences. It includes a reflection on the relationship between the relevant paragraphs of the Constitution, as the representative for Wage expresses expectations in his interpellation. Such an organisation intends to facilitate the assessment of the various proposals by the Storting and to provide a treatment which the Storting considers appropriate and which may lead to changes in the Constitution. The purpose of the Landfill Communication will be to facilitate the decision of the Storting on the continuation, reform or winding-up of the State Church Scheme. It is the main question that the Stortinget through the message is invited to assess and answer. The government has always had a common overall objective of a comprehensive solution to the church issue. That is why we want to emphasise that the big message we are submitting should contribute to a good debate and a clean treatment in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e678	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no need to get involved in extensive discussions on historical matters. Let me just say that at one point I disagree with the presentation of the Council of State. He said that ‘in 1814 there was a coincidence between citizenship and church membership’. That's not right. Paragraph 2 states explicitly: ‘The Invaders who confessed to it shall be obliged to...’ This means that already in 1814 there were citizens who did not belong to the public religion of the state. But for the most part, I think the Council of State got hurt to misunderstand my point a little when he claimed that it was a particular view of Section 2. No, what is my concern is that the Constitution of this chapter on religion, state form and executive power – because this is where all the church regulations belong – constitutes a closed whole, where all the paragraphs are necessary components of this ended all. This has been taken into account in all previous discussions on changes in the relationship between state and church. That's why I'm so surprised that the Workers' Party seems to think that these paragraphs are more or less randomly spread around in the Constitution, and that you can pick out someone and keep the others – almost at best. The point is, at my discretion, that if you want to keep the hard core of the state church administration, that is, the Royal Church administration, unchanged, that is, in practice, Section 16, all the other discussions about any change in wording in other paragraphs really fall away as uninteresting or directly irrelevant. Of course, you might want to use § 2 for a completely different purpose than the paragraph has served so far, but then you actually construct a whole new constitution. I allow myself to quote from the latest comment version of the Basic Law of Arne Flivet. He says in his comment to Section 2: ‘This paragraph expresses both the principle of freedom of religion and gives a constitutional anchor. Paragraphs 4 and 12 must be seen in conjunction with Section 16 and the other provisions relating to state religion and the State Church. I could not agree more with anything than in what the Civil Ombudsman here states. § 2 is not a ‘overall’ paragraph, said the Council of State. No, that's perfect right. § 2 is the anchoring of the church system, and if the anchoring is removed, it should be removed in the name of reasonableness.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e702	What the representative for the payroll says is simply wrong. Even the quote he brings to squares to substantiate his own claim, does not contain what he claims. Of course, § 2 is a anchoring of the state church regime, but it is also the other paragraphs of the Basic Law that deal with the church regime – § 16, § 20, § 21 and not least § 4, which deal with the King. Nowhere in the legal literature, after what we have investigated, is there a review of an order between these constitutional paragraphs that says that § 2 is the anchoring of the others, and that if you remove § 2, you must also remove § 4, § 16, etc. In Sweden, this paragraph was just removed in 1975, but a state church arrangement was maintained for another 25 years. It shows, at least, that in some democratic Western countries it is fully possible to create a constitution that combines the constitutional provisions in the way that the National Labour Party's National Assembly was in favour. It could be interesting in the closing posts of the inter-pellant to find out if Sweden had a state church from 1975 to 2000, or if 8 million people in the neighbouring country lived in the confusion that they actually had a state church — while interpellant pay thinks they didn't. Obviously, the paragraphs are linked. But it's quite possible, as the interpellant says, to convert § 2 from a church government paragraph into a value paragraph. That's what the Stortinge will discuss. There are different opinions, and there are different opinions in the Green Committee. But it is therefore fully possible to retain the other paragraphs even if you remove Section 2 on the appointment of church officials and on the King's powers of arrangement under Section 16 of the Basic Law. It might also be interesting to hear what would happen if the Biggest actually by a two-thirds majority based that interpretation. Would one then end up in a situation where the Supreme Court would test the understanding of the Storting itself? It's this hall that adopts the Constitution by a two-thirds majority, based on the understanding of the different paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e715	The starting point for today's debate seems to be the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and, of course, as the interpellant says, previous investigations and the debate that has taken place in the last year on this matter. Furthermore, it seems quite clear that the national meetings of the various parties have given rise to much discussion. Of course, considerable emphasis needs to be placed on both the position of the Committee and the national meetings. It is truly a fantastic democracy we live in, in which we can openly discuss fundamental questions in a sincere and factual way. I have to say, however, that sometimes there has been a tendency that someone in the discussion has been dangerously close by using the characteristics that hardly contribute to a propitiatory and inclusive debate – not necessarily in this room, but in the general debate. I'm going to admit that I think the debate that the interpellant is going on today is very complicated. It raises a lot of questions. Today I would have had great problems falling down on one answer. Now it looks like I'm not alone in this. For this reason, the time until the notified wholesale notification is presented, and, of course, its treatment, will be good to have in order to clarify important questions. Paragraph 2 of the Constitution states that the public religion of the state is the evangelical Lutheran. It really belongs to the time of the oneness, that is, to a time when the ruler of a territory determined the religion of subjects. When Jean Baptiste Bernadotte became King Carl Johan, he of course had to convert to Lutheranism, and he wrote to his friends in France that he had now become the Scandinavian pope. From that time of understanding to today's society, a lot has happened. After the discussion about the position of the Committee on Retirement and the question of whether § 2 is about church rule, there is little doubt in my mind that the paragraph of many can be seen as just the country's value base. Like the Council of State, I want to be careful about looking away from the fact. When Stortinget is about to discuss this in more detail, the very change in today's § 2 to any new value paragraph will be important. On the one hand, it is discussed whether the «Gospel Lutheran Religion remains the State's public religion», on the other hand, whether this formulation should be removed and replaced by a value formulation. For a long time, I have said that the state’s values – if we are to produce such a text – should recognise the historical importance of Christianity, today’s multi-religious societies, and have human rights at the centre. We cannot and should not ignore the importance that Christianity has had in Europe, and therefore in Norway. It should be said that Christianity has been the dominant supplier of value to Europe. How we're going to deal with this problem, I think it's a good idea to spend time, so that we can communicate what we think and mean, and thus create the good foundation that such a paragraph deserves. There's a lot of interesting questions this is traveling. Do you want a value paragraph at all? Or is it that this has already been ensured through our implementation of human rights, which for some must be said to be a basis of value enough? I look forward to the Storting coming back to some of the issues that have been addressed in this debate, during the process of the Storing Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e734	I would first like to thank the interpellant for the fact that Stortinget is now given the opportunity to give some signals to the Council of State prior to the notification coming to the autumn. The representative of Opheim argues in his statement that § 2 is in a way to be understood as a value paragraph. I find that strange, because in the light of the time when this provision was designed, it was hardly the value of the Norwegian state that was the point of Section 2, but the paragraph was seen as part of the framework of a continued state church arrangement. That is why I think the Council of State basically answered well in parts of his contribution, when he stated that Section 2 was part of a comprehensive framework. Little surprised, therefore, at the conclusion that it is not certain that the Storing Message will see this framework in the context, but that one can pull out § 2 as an isolated part of the framework, remake it, and still keep control of important church issues. Then the question is, do we still have a state church? Or, what do we really have with the solution that the National Labour Party and the State Council themselves described here? So what are we left with? Are we left with a state church, half a state church? Or, how will the Council of State deal with the Church after that? I also find it strange that the Council of State challenges the Stortinget in terms of a wait and see if the Supreme Court might review the Storting's understanding of the Constitution. There is a small relevant issue, because it is obvious that the Storting may decide to make changes to Section 2 without making changes to the other provisions. But the people, and I also assume the Supreme Court, will expect the elected people to take decisions that are connected. I regret to say that a decision to remove the state church provision in Section 2 while not touching the other framework of the state church system is not related. This probably does not mean that the Supreme Court will review the decision of Storting, far from it, but it means, in my opinion, that Stortinget has not done his job properly. It is strange that the Council of State is so high on the ground to ensure that the state continues to have control of the top denominations, church control, without prejudice to the fact that in a society with a relatively high level of equality between religious communities, we have the same right to the appointment of, for example, imamer. Could a perhaps for the sake of equal treatment expect the Council of State to take the initiative in a law where the State will appoint imams? I don't think so. And it shows how strange this construction in case will be. The progress party wants to separate state and church, and we've wanted it for a long time. We have recently put forward proposals for a referendum on the state-church issue for the autumn. There we will be able to get a signal from the people, which concerns one of the most important questions in many years. I think it is necessary that we then see the whole of the framework and ask to hear the voice of the people in relation to which direction we are going. Then it's the fundamental clarification that's important. It is essentially the fundamental clarification that must be important – even without a referendum – in the big news. Do we still want a state church with its consequences? Or do we want a freed church? If we do the last thing, it's not just useful to change § 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e749	§ 2 has an embedded dualism in its form. First, it establishes the freedom of religion, and second, it says that «The Evangelical Lutheran religion remains the public religion of the State». This dualism we've gradually learned to live with and find a form on. That's not the main problem. The Constitution uses ‘remaining’, and it also shows that the Church of State is a survival from the one-time period, has its roots in the one-time period of violence — and that in itself should be a good reason to do something about this anachronism. But that's not what the theme is now. We don't have a confesional state in Norway, and we don't have a state-supporting belief. I think it's important to stress that Section 2 does not give us that. As I see it, and as I also perceive the Supreme Court, this is not a value paragraph and cannot be seen as a value paragraph in the way that it lays the lead for what the Storting can take of decisions. If the Constitution had a value paragraph, it would have to lay the foundations for the majority's freedom of action. Paragraph 2 does not, and it has been reasonably clear in the so-called Børre Knudsen case. The size is free to adopt laws, regulations and rules independently of Section 2. I'm a little surprised by the Council's response. When he commented on Section 2, he used the concept that this is “first and foremost about the church regime”. So he indicated that this is about something more. There I think the Council of State should have been clearer. It's not about anything else here, it's about the very foundation of the church government that comes into later paragraphs. This has also led to a debate on whether we need a value paragraph. If we wind up Section 2, are we going to get a value paragraph, replace Section 2 with a value paragraph? I have a big problem seeing the need for a value paragraph. I have a hard time understanding what one wants with such a value paragraph. For me, the Constitution will be a value document. After all, the whole of the Basic Law shall be a value document in itself, in which a kneeling of certain basic principles in the various paragraphs. Making a value paragraph doesn't look like I need to. I also see some major problems associated with this. A value paragraph will have to be a minimum common multiple of many and different interests, and I think that formulating such a paragraph would be difficult. Let me also comment on the change to Section 2 and the connection between Section 2 and the other paragraphs. I think if we change Section 2, in many ways, the basis for the other paragraphs is gone. If we change Section 2, remove Section 2, it is a natural consequence for me that the rest of the paragraphs dealing with the Church of State are also changed. I am not sure, if you remove or change § 2, you cannot maintain the paragraph on church rule, but I think it would be a bad form, and it becomes illogical – there will be no connection between the principle statement contained in Section 2 that we have a church of the state, and the other paragraphs on how the church regime should be designed. It won't be logically consistent, but that's possible, I think. My appeal is that one withdraws from the Constitution all the provisions relating to the Church of State, Section 2 and also the rest. There is the Labour Party and the SV disagree, but it is a debate that needs to go further. I hope that we can find a good way to dissolve and remove the ties that are today between state and church. This is an anachronism, a survival, from the time of one violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e766	The issue of distinction between state and church in Norway has been one of the most frequently discussed issues in the last hundred years. How long it'll continue to be, it might depend on us sitting in this room. It might be interesting to do a thought experiment: if we were to start from scratch, set aside today's church system and create a whole new order – what would we do? Would we then start designing a new state church? I'm absolutely sure we wouldn't. Would we draw a completely liberated church in line with all other religious communities? Yes, it's much more likely that we would. Section 2 of the Constitution would not look like it is doing today, with the obligation not only in a particular religion, but also in a particular denomination. We would first of all think in principle. The problem with our thought experiment is that we don't start from scratch. We have a story, and we have inherited an inheritance to manage – a 1,000-year Christian tradition that, to those degrees, has shaped our culture, our history and our way of thinking. We had the state church system in its classic design first and foremost during the royal empire of the 1600s. Then was state and church one. Today, the Church of State rests mainly on some of the paragraphs of the Constitution that together form the basis for our Church of State. I therefore believe that the representative Wohnung is entitled that the Constitution § 2 is formally not to be understood as a general value paragraph for the Kingdom. The provisions of the Constitution constitute a whole, where Section 2 provides the basis for the concrete design of the State Council of Churches. But when that's said, it also has to be stressed that the formal here is one thing, but how it feels, on the other hand, can be something else. There is little doubt that Section 2 in particular is seen as a basis for values for Norway. That is why many are afraid of removing this paragraph from the Constitution. One of the strongest expressions of this was the outcome of the extensive consultation process set up by the Government. There was an overwhelming majority of 81 p.m. a request for a new value paragraph in the Constitution if a removes Section 2. Most parties have now had their national meetings and debated the relationship between state and church. The results have been different, but there seems to be some confusion that today's Section 2 is due to fall. If we in Stortinget go to the step of repealing § 2 together with the other church paragraphs, it is important that we are aware of what we are doing. Then the Norwegian constitution will not have a reference to the Christian religion at all. I think it's 81 pst. by the hearing bodies. The Christian ethics and cultural heritage is an important historical heritage and represents a common value for Norwegian society. As I mentioned earlier, Christianity marks our view of humanity, our values, our laws, our history and our culture. This should still be an important part of the core wall of Norwegian society. A new arrangement of the Church-State relationship must not mean that these values are removed from the Constitution. That is why the Christian People's Party will continue to work in the Stortinget for a new order, where the Norwegian Church can be ruled in its own house, i.e. become a legal entity of its own and be entitled to decide for themselves who should be able to hold church offices as a prost and bishop as well as to have control over matters of doctrine and order. Christian People’s Party believes that a new value paragraph that refers in particular to Christian and humanistic values should replace today’s § 2 of the Constitution. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that this relationship be settled before anything else. We want a binding agreement in Stortinget that nothing will be cancelled without ensuring something that is equally acceptable. Instead, we have to get a value paragraph that says something about the state continuing to build on the Christian value base. For today's Section 2 and the discussion about it gives the right to rule, I would like to say that it may well be technically that it does not allow the right to rule, but the content of Section 2 that this is the religion of the State, is what, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, gives the State the right to rule, in the name of human rights and freedom of belief. That's why the change in it is important. The Christian People's Party has initiated a dialogue at Stortinget and has encouraged all parties to sit down and discuss the matter further. We will follow up on this initiative, because it is so important to find a durable and good new arrangement for the relationship between the state and the Norwegian Church that gathers, not splits.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e800	There is no doubt that when the Stortinget is presented with a big message about the relationship between the state and the church for the autumn, there will be a big and important debate on the Stortinget. When we look at the hearing opinions and the recordings that are coming, the numerous debates that are being held on the topic, it is also clear that this creates commitment. It's positive. There are reasons why it engages. Faith is very personal, and many have a very close relationship with their faith. But not least, the debate is about what state we're going to have, like what church we're going to have – and what relationship we're going to have between church and state. I would therefore just like to mention briefly that the invitation by the leader of the Christian People's Party, Dagfinn Højbräten, to the Stortinget has been well received, precisely because it invites to a broad settlement and a broad discussion of what the Stortinget is going to do. Today's questions and the theme that the interpellant, Inge Wohnning, addresses, in my opinion, are a very fundamental part of the whole debate on the Church of the Church system. It's what the interpellant was about, so that the Constitution permits Section 2 of the State Council of Churches. Just so it's said: I also base the interpretation that the Constitution § 2 is the home, while the other paragraphs that belong to the Church Government define the content of the Church. So they don't anchor the state church, but they define the content of the state church. I also disagree with the Council of State when he mentions that the Committee on the Remuneration proposes to remove Section 2 and that it may not be a problem either that it is a proposal that the Workers' Party and others have made. Well, that's right, but the Gehenna selection goes further. The Committee on Remuneration proposes to remove the Royal Council of Churches which is laid down in the other paragraphs of the Constitution. So there's a context in the Gehenna committee that you might not be able to trace in what the Workers' Party has proposed. What the various national meetings adopted during the spring have contributed to debate. However, the view of the Workers' Party has also contributed to some confusion, because it is not just about the understanding of Section 2 whether to remove Section 2 or not, it is so much about the fact that during the presentation of this at the Press Conference one said that one wanted to keep the other paragraphs of the Constitution until further notice, i.e. one wanted to remove Section 2 and keep the other paragraphs until further notice. More explicitly, it was said at the press conference that they wanted to keep the paragraphs until a better democracy was in place in the Church. Then you can discuss back and forth how strong democracy must be and when that happens, but the interesting and fundamental thing in this context is that you want to remove Section 2, which authorizes the state religion and the state church, while you want to keep a state-run church. To me and obviously to more people in this room, this is not logically consistent. It's not very logical that when the foundation of the Church's government falls away, you should continue to rule the same church. So it's like thinking of a model where you no longer have a state religion, but a state government of a church. Then there is the fundamental question: Should the state also govern the internal affairs of the Catholic Church and of the Muslim religious community? In that case, why should one relate only to one particular religion, if one is to abolish what is the basis of the Church of State and the state religion? These are big questions that we probably do not find an answer to during this interpellation debate. However, it is at least affordable that they travel, for this must necessarily form an essential basis in the Storing Message that comes about the setting of the Gehöns-committee. One of the most basic things the Biggest can decide is: Can we formally imagine a church that is state-run, but not authorized? In my opinion, it's hard to imagine. I do not find it particularly logically consistent, and I am addressing the debate that will come about in the context of the Great Britain Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e820	There have been many useful input into the debate. I'm 100 pst. agree with the Council of State in one thing: the right of appeal of the Supreme Court in relation to the law does not include the Constitution. We're 100 pst. agree, so it's a completely engineered problem. It is true, as the representative Anundsen said, that if the Storting starts to pick out some components of the construction works that are in the Basic Law today, there is only one requirement for it to be possible to do so, namely two-thirds of the majority in this hall. But this will mean that Stortinget has done a crazy bad job – I am 100 pst. agree with the representative of Anundsen in. It is not true that all the constitutional paragraphs are on the same footing, as the Council of State said, and are anchoring the state church regime. The other paragraphs define the contents of the state church administration, and my point is that if you want that content to be passed on, that is. Paragraphs 4 and 16 are not correct either, as the representative Dagrun Eriksen said, removing Section 2, all references to Christianity fall away from the Norwegian Constitution. No, they don't. Still, the King will be obliged to confess to the Evangelical Lutheran religion. For the readers of the Basic Law, however, it will be incomprehensible why the King is obliged to do so – because the reason has been removed, namely that it is the religion of the state it is about. Furthermore, in Section 16, we will have the wording on the public teachers of religion to be supervised by the state at large. So the state religion follows 100 pst. with the load, even if the one sentence in Section 2 is deleted. The council says there's been different perceptions in the Gehönes Committee. Yes, it is true, but they are all based on one common premise, namely that there is a completely necessary internal connection between Section 2 and Sections 4 and 16 and that it is impossible to rock some of them without the others joining in the purchase. There has been a common premise for everyone across all disagreements. That was also the common assumption for the Sivertsen Committee. It was also a common premise when the Storting discussed new church law in the 1950s. The thought that it is possible to disassemble the paragraphs bit by bit, is a fragmented new invention. I interpret both what was going on in the Storting's spontaneity hour last time the Prime Minister was here, and the debate today, so that it is to be seen as ruled out that there will be a constitutional majority for such an operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e837	It is possible that there is a new invention to rock by one paragraph without rocking by the others, and that the Right is therefore opposed, as they have previously opposed many new inventions, such as parliamentaryism, general voting rights and welfare state – but it is not impossible to implement it for that reason. In Sweden, then, for 25 years there was a state church without a section on the religion of the country. I realized that I did not get an answer to the question of 8 million Swedes lived in confusion over the 25 years. What is a state church? Is that § 2 about the state's religion? Is it the paragraph on the appointment of the clergy, is it the arrangement authority, is it the King's obligation to confess, is it the composition of the council, or is it that the state and the Church are one legal entity? There are many different variations of the state church. Of course, they're a whole, but it's possible to find many different groups that together form a kind of state church – of course, you can choose that freely in the Storting. I am at least pleased that the representatives of Wage and Eriksen Soreide do not live in the same error as their leader, who, after the Workers' Party made its proposal, stated that a church without a religion is not a stasis, and that one sees that faith and religion have a different background to that of the Norwegian Constitution § 2. Then the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide says that it is illogical to say that the state should have no religion, but still retain government over the Church. The majority of the Committee on Gender Equality is also in favour, but one should not do so in the Constitution – one should do so in a common church law. You have to have a specific law for one religious community, a law on the Norwegian Church – I see the representative's pay shakes on your head, but you have to. One must have a law on the Norwegian Church adopted in Stortinget, but one should not have a law on the Catholic Church or a law on Islamic religious communities. They shall be governed by the Law of Religious Societies. The logical consequence of saying that the state should have no extra say over the Norwegian Church is that all religious communities, including the Norwegian Church, are governed by the Law of Religious Society. The representative, in his interview, says that it is ‘take it or leave it’ – you have to take everything or nothing. He tries to force the Storting and us into a corner where you have to choose a package, preferably his, by removing all the constitutional paragraphs or keeping everyone – but it's not that simple. I think, on the contrary, if we're going to find a broad solution, we don't have to choose ‘take it or leave it’, then we have to work together and find a whole. I also have to say that I'm a little surprised at a bit of a hustle and bustle from the Progress Party, which is talking about that we're also going to start appointing imams. Well, we have a thousand years tradition of being a Christian country. We'll have 500 years of tradition of having a state church. It is not entirely comparable with the Muslim religious communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e852	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e870	Students from 2 to 10 years of age. class living more than four kilometres from school is entitled to free school kisses. First class students have the right to shower when they live more than two kilometres from school. In addition, students who have a particularly dangerous or difficult school route, regardless of their right to school kissing. However, this interpellation is not about the school code, but about all the others, those who do not live far from school and who do not have a very dangerous school path but who have an unsafe school path. What do we do for these children? The theme of ‘hazardous educational pathways’ is taken up at regular intervals from Stortingen’s pulpit, especially as the new school year approaches. That's good. But what's even better is if something is actually done to secure the school roads, so that more children can bike or go to and from school. This theme is not so hot to talk about as racial protection and new ways. Media shows little interest. I notice how the money of the journalists rests when I am engaged in talking about this topic, even though this is at least as important. It's about the health and safety of our children. I was in the election campaign around my own home country, Akershus, to look at school roads. I was shocked at how dangerous school roads were some places. I actually got a little ashamed. We must be able to assure our parents around the country that they can safely send their children to school! In 2005, the Trafik economics institute asked 7,500 schoolchildren and their parents how they got to and from school and how they experienced the school route. The study was part of the evaluation of the project Active School Children. According to the study, 43 pst goes. of the children of the school, and 25 pst. I was driving in the car. Nearly half of the first-graders are running. Only every four children have paved roads all the way to school. More than half of them experience traffic problems at school. Parents often find it difficult to decide how to get children to school safely. Should the child walk, bike, or be driven? Studies, such as the one from the Traffic Economics Institute, show that many parents experience the school route so insecure that they choose to drive them to and from school. The paradox is that parental driving leads to a strong increase in traffic at school and in its immediate surroundings. Often, the school’s vicinity is not designed for increased traffic. As a result, unbridled and dangerous delivery and retrieval situations arise. So we're getting a vicious circle: the parents are driving the kids to school because they think the way is too dangerous. The result is increased traffic risk for all those travelling to and from school. Making more children go to school will have a health effect and an environmental impact. We know that physical activity has a beneficial effect on the well-being and performance of children. Physical activity is also important for good health in growing up and later in life. Similarly, almost daily we can read that Norwegian children and young people are much less physically active now than before. Making children go to school will help increase the physical activity of children in a natural way. In addition to its health impact, it will result in less driving and less pollution. In other words, it's just beneficial. All children are obliged to go to school, and it is their parents' responsibility that the children attend school. But children have no rights to safe school roads. According to Safety Traffic, the soft road users represent an increasing proportion of the fatalities in traffic. According to the Road Directorate, six schoolchildren were killed on the school road between 2001 and 2005, while 50 were seriously injured. The entire 546 children were more easily injured. There's too many of them. It is basically the road owner who is responsible for the school roads, i.e. that it is primarily the municipalities and the counties responsible for ensuring safe school roads. The State is responsible for the national roads, and the Ministry of Transport has also granted funds for road safety measures for several years. I belong to a party that wants more power to local democracy, and I therefore do not call for the state to override the municipalities and states in this area. Responsibility and challenges are mainly local. But the state obviously has a driving role and a responsibility to raise money in the pot. When it comes to concrete measures to secure school roads, there is little more effective than money. Here, the state can contribute more than it does today. In the context of Norwegian road and road traffic plans for 1998–2007, checklists were drawn up to ensure roads for 6-year-olds to go to school. The checklists assume that the actual speed is not higher than the speed limits indicated. There is a lot of good work in municipalities and county councils, but I think it's time to think a little bit new. I think it might have been a good idea to consider state incentives so that more states and municipalities could start taking action to secure the school roads. For example, it is possible to put in place a reward scheme based on the model of public transport, which allows the municipalities that spend a lot of money on school roads according to measurable criteria to also receive more money from the state. I think it would be interesting to hear whether the Council of State agrees with the Left in such a way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e893	The government, and I as Minister of Transport, prioritise traffic security high. In the light of the zero vision, prevention measures are at the heart of road safety. Securing school grounds has been a priority area for the State Road Service since the reform of the school for 6-year-olds. Ensuring children a safe route consists not only of the establishment of walking and cycling roads, but also of other important measures such as pavement, speed damping, securing intersections, pedestrian crossings and, not least, good traffic training for both children and adults. Every year, an average of about 1,500 children aged 0 to 16 are injured or killed in police-reported traffic accidents. ==References== 42 pst. these children are injured as passengers in a car, while the bicycle and pedestrian hatches are responsible for one third of the damage. A minority is injured or killed on their way to and from school. The average number for the last five years shows that 83 children of elementary school age were injured or killed each year on their school grounds. This is approximately 5.5 pst. of all traffic accidents involving children. The number is somewhat uncertain due to a lack of reporting on police travel purposes. It is estimated that the actual number is between 10 and 20 pst. cf. St. Report. No 37 for 1996-1997, Norwegian Road and Road Transport Plan 1998–2007. Today, children’s and youth schools are a municipal task. The type of way these schools are at, municipal, county or national roads, is determined by who is responsible for building walking and cycling roads. Consequently, municipalities and county councils are responsible for the measures on their part of the road network. The construction of pedestrian and bicycle roads will take place here up to the individual municipality and county municipality. However, the State Road Service shall be a knowledge intermediary and promoter of good organisation for walking and sick countries, even where the municipalities and counties have the primary responsibility. Municipal self-government and freedom of choice were among the reasons why from 2001 onwards, the former ear-marked back-up system for county roads and road safety measures, formerly Aktion sculvej, was incorporated into the framework of the county municipalities, cf. St. pp. No 62 for 1999-2000 and Innst. S. No 252 for 1999-2000. The eartags suggested that measures should make the school roads and the community of children’s insurers. Most of the funds for the ‘Action School Road’ were therefore used for the construction of walking and cycling roads, speed reduction measures in residential areas, minor cross-repairs and road derailments. From 2001 onwards, the county authorities administer the criteria for the use and licensing of funds for road safety measures. There are wide variations in the priority given to this area by the individual counties and municipalities. Here I have to say that under this government and the municipalities have obtained an economic freedom of action that allows them also to prioritize this important area in a completely different way than they had with the previous government. The government can't decide that people should go or ride, but we can set the conditions for this. The 2007 budget assumes that a total of around 310 million will be used. kr to walking and cycling roads, about 240 million. kr is government funds. In addition, route-wise measures will be implemented, leading to better conditions for walking and sick people. As part of this organisation, the Government prioritises the development of a coherent cycling network in selected urban areas. This has been defined through the National Cycle Strategy, which is part of the National Transport Plan 2006–2015. An action programme has been developed as a debt for the period 2006-2009. The frame is not filled after two years, but the Government aims to implement the NTP action program in this field as well. Slopes and other routes where there are many minors are involved in this work. The work done in inspecting and improving existing bicycle tracks with regard to road safety, design and experience will continue. In addition, I have started work on reviewing the traffic rules in order to make cycling safer and more attractive. A moment that is considered in Vegvesenet's assessment of how best to ensure a safe school path is not to give children and parents a false sense of security. This may include: arise in connection with setting speed limits that are not exceeded. Speed is likely to have a significant impact on the risk of accidents and the extent of damage. Speed reduction measures and police controls are important here. False security may also occur when more and more of the children are run to school. As the representative Tenden says, unsafe situations have been created when traffic on the school grounds increases. Such an increase in private school pillows is an unfortunate development both in terms of road safety and in relation to children’s physical activity. The track has changed from the active path of discovery to the passive stage of transport. The schools, the police, the road authorities and other actors must continue to inform about the possible consequences of this practice, and one must facilitate both physical action and alternative measures to break the vicious circle described by the representative Tenden. The Social and Health Directorate, in cooperation with the Statens vägvesen, the Police Directorate and the Safety Traffic, has established the project ‘Active School Children’, including: provide information and instructional facilities linked to an active and safe school route. That being said, it is also important not to minimize the anxiety and concern that all parents have for their children in and out of traffic. The government's aim is to ensure that the schoolchildren have a safe schooling path to all the basic schools in the country. I have therefore taken the initiative to ensure that the State Road Service carries out a survey of needs and costs related to this objective. Walking and cycling roads, together with other conditions that are important for a safe route, will be included in this survey. In order for the Government to be able to align its further work in the most effective way possible to achieve this goal, it is also important that the State Road Service analyse the factors affecting the progress of today’s construction of pedestrian and bicycle roads. Is there a lack of money, or is there in the first row local will and plan decisions that are decisive? Today, we have a total of about 3,100 basic schools in Norway. The implementation of a complete survey of the conditions around all these schools is therefore a very extensive work. Due to the scale and complexity of the cases, the possible full monitoring and follow-up of the policy objectives of the natural right-hand home in the forthcoming National Transport Plan 2010–2019 will be undertaken. However, in order to get the work started, the State Road Service will initially undertake a minor assessment of the need based on a review of some selected municipalities. In order to achieve the objective of the Action Plan and to ensure a safe schooling path for all Norwegian schoolchildren, it is important to cooperate with all key actors. The state can and will allow money, but it is to the seventh and last counties and the municipalities themselves that need to prioritise and actually adopt plans for the development of walking and cycling roads and local traffic pressure plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e927	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that she says she will give high priority to the school roads. But the answer was probably also as expected; the increased funds for the municipalities are the answer to most of the questions. Of course, it is positive that some municipalities have more money to travel with, but it must also be allowed to be creative and use other tools. The reward scheme for public transport has, as you know, been a success. It's focused on the importance of public transport in our cities. As a result, cities have increased slightly, and larger cities are asking for similar rewards. I have a great sense of such positive arrangements – that you're stretching a little. I am pleased that this government is following up the reward scheme, albeit with a little less money. The Bondevik II government in its time gave additional project funding to Akershu County, because it was not possible to care for the huge student growth in secondary school. In this way, counties and municipalities may have different needs at different times, and I believe that a government council should be able to give signals and incentives to such an important area as safe school roads. Therefore, I would be very pleased if the Council of State looked closer to some sort of reward scheme, incentive. She did not quite respond to it in her post, but I hope perhaps she can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e943	I did not give any specific answers as to whether the Regening will implement a bypass arrangement to ensure schoolrooms. The reason is that the Government has not taken a position on this matter. If this is the case, I will consider in connection with the national transport plan, when I have been identified with needs and what may be the reason why the rate of development is not at the level that one might like. In the Action School Path, a very incentive agent was used. Now I haven't checked if it was a whole bunch, but there was at least a large number in Stortinget that let the incentives into the local authorities' framework transfers, so that a local person could prioritize them. That doesn't mean the funds have been lost. That means you're over them. A resource still has its own local resource. I have also asked for figures to see if there have been less or more funds for the school after having allowed the funds into the framework transfers. This may be interesting, not least in connection with the fact that regions, which may become hotter, will also be given greater responsibility for other parts of the road network. In his main post, the representative tended to say that she was “enraged” about the situation she saw in the election campaign. It must have meant that the representative was ashamed of what her party after four years of government and four years of management in the Ministry of Transport had received as a result. I'm impatient to be able to do more in this area. So I've started a mapping of what's needed to do more. But I'm also very clear that we're not going to take responsibility for this from the municipalities and county councils. It has been put there by Stortinget, and they have received funds in the framework to do that job. In addition, we have now received a municipal economy which has gradually been more balanced, where it is possible to find the means to prioritise this important area. Of course, the country should contribute more. Yesterday I was in the municipality of Vindaford. I looked at an important piece of a school road in Skold, where one should go in with some state resources to make sure that the students should not be run to school, so that in a while they can take their legs or get their bikes. There are many such distances where government funds help to secure the school ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e956	It is an important theme that the representative Tende is travelling here today. It is incredibly tragic that people in Norway die in traffic at all, but of course it is even more tragic when there are children dying on Norwegian school roads. We politicians must take our share of the responsibility for this. It's us people watch when they feel that the roads are unsafe, when they feel that their children don't have the safe school path that they think they should have had. I believe that we also need to look at some of the attitudes that are in society about using a car, and what the representative also mentions in his interpellation, among other things. parents are eager to drive their own children to school to get a safe school route. They may thus help others to get a somewhat safer school route. Where I grew up, at Holmlia in Oslo, we had largely just passageways to school. I have recently seen that even there kids are driven to school. So there are children who can go without ever having to cross a highway, which is driven to school by their parents. The most dangerous area for the children is the parking space right at school. Here we have to look at people's attitudes. However, there is clearly a need to focus on road safety measures, such as pavement and protective measures. Where children go on or near something larger roads, I believe we must also be willing to bet on traffic monitoring. This is something that, in particular, the Left has been skeptical of in several other interviews. I believe it is important that we also take up that work and are willing to monitor the traffic along unsafe roads in order for children to have a safe school path. Then it might have to be at the expense of the freedom of the individual human being driving these cars. That's what I'm willing to do for children to get a safer school path. I have recorded that the left is not. In the Labour Party we are also concerned that all work in this area must be seen in the context. Public transport bets, both rail, bus, T-Bahn and others, must be seen as road safety work. Smaller cars on Norwegian roads also mean less risk in traffic for children. No, Borghild Tenden, this government has not given less money to public transport. The reward scheme for public transport will be corrected in the revised national budget. We've been told that today. This government gives just as much money as the Left did. In addition, we also have a reward scheme for public transport in the districts, which means even safer roads for more children, if more people in the districts start driving buses. I am sorry that I spoke directly to the representative Tende. I fully agree that the reward system is important. But it is also true that there is no question of triggering funds that do not exist. In the previous period there were 120 municipalities on the ROBEK list. It doesn't mean much that there are incentives from the state that are going to trigger funds in the municipalities, when you don't have the money to trigger because the money is already tied up in other important areas. This government has focus on road safety. We have also given priority to the local economy. So it's easier for municipalities to take out money through incentive schemes with this government than with the previous one, and it may not be at the expense of other important areas. I am a strong supporter of municipal autonomy, but then there must be money to manage. I am pleased that the Council of State now announces that the Government will continue to invest in road safety, and I am happy both for monitoring and for further efforts through the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e979	The President accepts the complaint of direct speech to the representative Tenden and therefore does not recall that all speech is to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e982	With the address of the previous speaker, it is that the traffic situation and traffic situation of the parents most than the country is probably quite different from that of central Oslo. It is important that we get better safety for children on the way to and from school. The best measure is, in the opinion of the Progress Party, better and safer roads. Either a two-field or a four-field road or a full motorway standard should be established, Norway must and must have a road standard that ensures good safety for all road users. There is also security for those who travel along and off the road, including schoolchildren on the way to and from school — whether they go or are driven. The only thing that really benefits is a large-scale expansion of modern roads in Norway, making them efficient, safe and environmentally friendly. If I remember correctly, it's probably the fact that the interpellant's party, the Left, cut the national road allocations for 2007. Well, that's kind of weird, starting with the exposure, which is otherwise affordable. For schoolchildren on bus, by car and by foot, modern roads are important to ensure everyone, including walking and cycling. Still, most children go to school. A lot of people walk alone. Only 5 pst. is followed by adults, but according to statistics I found for 2006, one in five is driving to school. I don't think it's for masculine reasons, but I think it's because of security. There is reason to remember that the road network is owned by three road keepers: state, county municipalities and municipalities, and that a total of 40 pst. of the road network is municipal. There is therefore a significant responsibility on the municipalities to make the road network safe for both pedestrians and drivers. Then it remains to be seen whether the alleged liberalism and improved the economy of the municipalities also indicate that the municipal roads, the municipal road network, are 40 pst. Of our roads, and on which many schoolchildren travel, actually get better, if there is a good prioritisation in this area in the municipalities as well. Many children are transported to and from school on a school bus. The challenge is not only that the school bus is safe, but also that children in school buses are well - assured. In this respect, the Council of State should take initiatives towards the Minister of Knowledge, who either lacks knowledge of school bussing or does not care. I refer you to Document No. 8:84 for 2005-2005, as the Stortinget was treated not long ago, in October 2006. The proposal of the Progress Party to amend the Road Traffic Act to prohibit the transport of schoolchildren and young people by school bus was rejected by the Stortinget. Only the Left supported the Progress Party in this important matter in order to ensure safe transport for schoolchildren. There's reason to look at the boundaries of getting school bus transport to school. The law was referred by the interpellant, but it is practiced very differently. Too many parents feel that they have to fight against the local school office about whether the road is dangerous or not. Unfortunately, there are many dangerous school roads and many examples of over-practice. It should be looked at both by this Council of State here today and by the colleague of the Ministry of Knowledge, so that we get a more consistent and equal practice, regardless of which municipality you live in. Here parents, together with school management and police, should be able to make a joint assessment that determines whether students are awarded school kisses or not. State councils should also look at whether we are building too much on the ground and too expensive when we are dealing with safety measures along existing road networks, in particular with regard to walking and cycling routes to school. Here, too, simple, effective and therefore reasonable solutions should be considered — again in cooperation with individual schools, not least the FAUs at schools. Let me remind you that the Progress Party still wants the municipalities themselves to be responsible for the financing of the school shower, so that the school owner also pays the bus transport. I would remind you that all the other parties voted against our proposal on this in October, when the document No. The 8-proposal was discussed. There are too many dangerous school roads in Norway. During an inspection with the Transport Committee, we have seen this, made this clear and difficult from engaged parents and students and from local authorities. Better roads must be provided, better safety in school buses must be provided, and more people should be transported by bus, because the road is dangerous. That's also why many parents drive children to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1005	I'm glad that more people are on the road now to create safe communities. Stronger action on road safety is an important part of this work. Therefore, the right welcomes this interpellation and also refers to the recent World Health Organisation initiative to increase the focus on road safety and a stronger response to accidents. That's pretty gloomy statistics we can read. According to WHO figures, 1.2 million people worldwide are killed and 50 million injured in road traffic accidents every year. These numbers will increase by 65 pst. in the next 20 years if one does not apply countermeasures. In Norway, a number of measures have already been taken. Safe school roads and ‘Action School Road’ have been mentioned here before — it is an important part of the work on safe communities. I agree that where the municipality is the weigher, this is primarily a municipal responsibility, but at the same time I think they are exciting and interesting, the recordings that the representative Tenden has about the incentive scheme. At the same time, I think it is good that the Council of State now wants to have a survey of the school roads around the country to see if action can be taken. The right has strengthened the budgets for better road installations, but we are busy with more than just budgets. I think for many years we have to accept that the road standard is too poor in many places, and that it is still and will be unsafe school roads. That is why we must maintain and strengthen the attitude-building and prevention work. The cooperation on the road safety campaign ‘Children in traffic’ we would like to see more! We adults also have to get better at thinking about our behaviour in traffic. Recently, the transport committee in Hallingdal was on a committee trip to Buskerud. There we were told about a unique road safety work that has come about and that should be an inspiration and a follow-up elsewhere in the country. I am glad that the area where I myself have lived many years of life has gone into the brink of innovation and more cooperation. Hallingdal has had a very bleak accident statistics for many years. When we know how many people are affected by an accident, it is not too early to initiate action. The fires in Hallingdal have been creative. There the municipalities, the Vegvesenet, the transport industry, gas stations, emergency stations, insurance companies and several others cooperate in the project Traffic Safety Hallingdal. They have recognized that in the foreseeable future there will be too bad roads. Although our task as transport politicians is to increase investment, it is important that a country around also sees what can be done differently within today's budgetary framework and with the road network at its disposal. If we look at accident statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau, there is a trend towards a decline in the number of road fatalities. But we have a zero. In addition, there is an increase in the number of hard damage. With better cars, more people survive, but we see that more people have to live a life of lasting harm. Accidents mean reduced quality of life and affect so many more than those directly involved. If we look at what accidents cost society, we should invest more in road safety. In each municipality, road safety congestion should always be included in the planning of new installations and large maintenance projects. I have mentioned that road safety is so much more than better roads. This does not mean that we should not also strengthen the road budgets. Right is impatient. We want to speed up the zero vision. If we let the tunnel scandal lie for a moment, there is little doubt about what new E18 has meant to reduce the accidents in Westfold. When the Right wants more of the OPS project, it is because we also see that there is a significant amount of available capacity in the construction industry and because it is possible to carry out several good road projects. The faster we get better roads means fewer killed and hard damage in traffic. The right will have a forced development of the high-traffic main road network and strengthen efforts for several middle parts. The articles during the interpellation debate here today promise well. I look forward to seeing if the lag in the investment funds of the National Transport Plan Action Programme, NTP, is recovered when the revision comes tomorrow. One accident is one too much. That's why we have to think more thoughts at once!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1028	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing this important question, which I believe the whole Storting is busy. Then there's a question of how to improve. I am very happy to start by saying that the Left is out of government, Skogsholm is out of government, and that we now have a government that really trades, with the Council of State Navarsete at the head. And then I think we could think about how to do more. Our government is using the community's money, not to give the individual more tax and billions to go by private route, but to strengthen the community's interests. Perhaps when left out of government, the Left has come up with better ideas and found that fiscal policy is not the policy that creates greater security for Norwegian and Norwegian students. But let me continue this also challenge a little bit ideologically. This with free schooling is a problem that has to do with road safety. If you have as a tenant that everything should be free, that all school choices, children's events and everything should be free, yes, well, then you would like to have a mobility problem – if you go to a school or a kindergarten in another part of the city. This thus creates the free school elections, which are so important for some parties, a breach of extra traffic, which can create more accidents. The left and others concerned with road safety have to ask themselves whether it is a good idea to have an option as ideological superstructure when it goes beyond both the environment and the road safety of young people. So the risk of accidents increases with free schooling. So it's interesting if the left has some time to look at that problem. This is also, as many people have been involved in, an important local policy objective. If a plan well enough — something that, after my head, as a socialist, is to plan such that one has the family, the school, the nursery and the nearby store in the same neighbourhood — one of the transport needs is to be reduced enormously. This will, of course, also reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental problems created by traffic. There's really socialism to prefer to liberalism. There is no doubt that such measures as the right-wing representative was involved, for example. The Hallingdal project, which we saw, is very good, no matter what one thinks about the road and the like, because then a different set of groups and different experiences put together and ask, can we somehow reduce traffic accidents, whether they are due on a school road or road in general? If the parties involved are involved in this, and are involved, one would also like to find the best solutions, because, as Right says, and as most people have understood, except for those who had the national meeting now on the weekend, not all three questions are answered, road, road. Actually, one has to have different thoughts in your head than asphalt. And I don't think that's what the party in this room has. Finally, let me say that a good climate policy is a good road safety policy. I am very pleased that the Government now has more money on the compensation scheme than we had in the budget, that we now have more money than any government has had before on the concession scheme, when revised tomorrow, that we have more money on the railway than the left could ever dream about when they were in position, that we are now also looking at a sectorial climate action plan, where we are trying to take car traffic away from the roads through rush time charges, in order to get more people to travel collectively. It is also good that we get a real bet on the bike. Norway has too low a share of bicycle transport, 5 pst., while Sweden has 12, Denmark 17 and the Netherlands 27 pst. We still have a job to do here. That's the challenge we're going to take. Cycling is good for people's health, for the environment, for road safety and for the climate. Now it's just for us in the government party to deliver even more of the good messages that we've offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1044	First of all, I would also like to pay tribute to Borghild Tenden and Left for bringing this topic up in a separate interpellation. Safe school roads are one of the most important things we can work for. It's about our children and their lives and health. In Norway, we have a duty to go to school. The Christian People's Party believes that this duty must be followed by a right to get to and from school safely. A safe school road has little traffic. Speed limits are not too high and are respected. On a safe school road, there is a pavement or a walking and cycling road, so that children do not walk on the road. Where children have to cross the road, there is a pedestrian, gangway or traffic light. These are some simple and general requirements for a safe school road. They should be obvious. But unfortunately, conditions aren't like this everywhere. In many places, the road to and from school is heavily trafficked and dangerous. We're adults who make the road dangerous. It is the mixture of hard and soft road users that is the problem, and the volume of traffic is increasing. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important that the road sections in the community around the schools are secured so that the children can walk or cycle the whole school road alone. As many people have been involved in the debate, many parents experience the school route that is so dangerous to their children that they choose to drive them to and from school. It is understandable that some people choose it, but at the same time this parent drive causes a strong increase in traffic around the school, and right at the time when the school starts or ends. Unseen and dangerous situations arise when parents stop, back and turn, and the result of parental driving is increased for all those travelling to and from school. This is a very good reason why it should be organised so that children can go to and from school. Another good reason is the health aspect. The physical activity is an important element in this issue. We know that it is good for the children – yes, for everyone – to go and ride, to get more physical activity than what we do today. This is another good reason to facilitate safe schooling. Then we also have the environmental aspect. The more it is that goes or bikes to school and work, the better it is. We know that ever-increasing car traffic is destroying the environment with high greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore all unnecessary driving should be avoided – another good reason to enable children to walk or ride safely to and from school instead of being driven by their parents. Safe school roads are primarily a municipal responsibility. The municipality is responsible for ensuring the safety of children in the field of school and on the school road. However, if the school route is located at a county road or highway, the county and the state are also responsible for road safety. In several places, counties and municipalities have allocated money to make the school road safer. The Ministry of Transport, as has been said today, has for several years allocated money to various road safety measures. However, too many school roads are still dangerous, and the interpellant asks a timely question when she asks if the Council of State will take initiatives to further government involvement so that more counties and municipalities can start projects to ensure more school roads. Finally, a little bit about walking and cycling road construction in general. Giving children and adults the opportunity to go and ride to work and school is the best thing we can do for health and the environment. The cycle is the ultimate zero-emission means of transport. It provides positive benefits in use, as well as transport. The Christian People's Party believes that priority must be given to building up our own paths for pedestrians and cyclists. The motto must be health, exercise, environment and safety. Finally, it's important to learn good habits. The person who has gone and rode a lot in childhood will probably be a better walk than the one who was always driving.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1063	At Easter I was in a very nice place called Ilseng, and met the community there and was going to discuss what was the challenge in the community. Then there was one thing that came up from the local well-being: it was walking and cycling road and walking and cycling road – time and time again. It tells me something: that this issue is important both to the local politician, to the community, to the state politician and to us as big-scale politicians. I also worked a little on road safety when I was a state politician, and fortunately we see that the accident figures are going down, even though traffic growth is getting stronger and stronger. There were more accidents in the 1970s than it is now. So something right has obviously been done by politicians both locally, nationally and in the state. As a decentralist, I believe that it is the local solutions that are best, and is therefore very pleased with what we have managed to do in this government, to increase the appropriations for the municipal sector by approx. DKK 18 billion. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the municipal walking and cycling roads, it is the counties that are responsible for the county roads, and for the national roads it is the state. So the most important thing for the community around the school is that we've managed to increase municipal budgets. Then we have also seen how important the County Road Safety Committee has been in the local work of distributing school bags, running information campaigns and transport campaigns such as the ‘Home for a 50-note’ for particularly vulnerable young people on Friday and Saturday evenings – a wide range of good measures that have been seen locally and at county level in need and that have been implemented. Because of the promise we have now made, there is a greater chance that we will see more such good projects in the years to come. According to the numbers that I've seen, it's approx. 83 children each year who are injured to and from school. There's too many of them. We can't settle down. But I think it's local you can manage to find the solutions. I think it's hard for us here on the house to sit and find the solutions you're going to have in Ilseng or in other small and large places. Therefore, the most important thing now is to continue to strengthen the local economy, and that the state has a knowledge apparatus through the state road system that can help individual municipalities and individual counties to have good road safety plans in their neighbourhoods. Borghild Tenden asked in his post for action. I feel that this is just what we have done, and also in accordance with the spirit of the Left, because the Left is also not a big fan of earmarked grants. But we actually have increased the space for action, and we're going to increase it further, and we're going to fill it up in relation to the commitments we have towards the municipal sector. It is I, who sits on the municipal committee, and who is a decentralist, very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1078	This is a very important debate, but I think, having followed it, that it is beginning to get a vandalism of shifting responsibility away from the Stortinget and the Government. I must first be allowed to arrest the representative of Langeland, because it is always the case that when the representative of Langeland is on this pulpit, he will try to tell us about all the others who have not understood anything. The progress party has actually understood a lot. We've realized that asphalt and road, road, road also provide better schooling for the students who travel on the roads, because then new roads are being built for which there are completely different demands than the roads they had in the past. I hope that the representative of Langeland also agrees. I think those who want to use bicycles, and those who want to go, are largely also dependent on having something asphalt either to go on or to ride. The bus also needs some roads to drive on if you want to transport all those who want to use the bus. That SV then does not want to build a road is the SV’s problem – it does not get better for those who walk along the road, who are dangerous to traffic, and will still be dangerous to traffic because you do not want to use funds to upgrade and upgrade, because SV is basically against spending money on road construction. Then I have to go back to what I always experience from the red-green government we now have, that you constantly shift the responsibility to others by saying that you have given more money to the county councils, you have given more money to the municipalities, which they can also use to build traffic-safe walking and cycling routes, just as the same government says that we should get better elderly care, better kindergartens, better schools. It's kind of not how you're going to cope with what the government's been adding up to now. When you start looking at all the money that the government now says it has granted, and all the good measures, it starts to be very little money again for some measures. At least the promotion party is concerned that it is important to bet on transport and to bet on road construction. I also find it quite interesting that more people have been up and said that the reward scheme has been a success. Yeah, that's interesting, because in connection with the state budget, the government chose to cut by 50 million. kr, and something that is a success, I think it's something special that you choose to cut – when you're so busy that it's been a great success. The Council of State says that the Government will collect more information on the needs and will come back to this in connection with the national transport plan. It's no problem to know the need around the country. It's just getting in touch with the municipalities or with the State Road Administration in the regions and in the districts, you'll know what you need to secure and get safe school paths. So I hope we get a more offensive state council, which doesn't constantly push the challenges ahead, but actually wants to meet the challenges and be in front of them to solve the problems. I want to draw up a concrete example. It's often a bit of a mistake to draw examples from your own municipality, but there are examples that you know very well. There we got a new ferry a few years ago to go between Norway and Denmark. This meant getting 50 to 100 new trailers along the school road, because it's often the way the boat comes in right then, because it's the best time to get the goods out to the market and where to deliver. Then the problem is that you drive straight into a school road that has an excessive traffic base initially, but given that something new is emerging – you actually don't refuse to start a new job and don't refuse a new one – you get a challenge because the road doesn't meet the requirements and needs you have. The parents and students who walk along the road do not have time to wait for the National Transport Plan, perhaps to enter 2018 or 2020 or 2025. They need to do something about the way now. Therefore, I should have liked to have seen that we had a government council that was much more offensive, that wanted more, and that wants to take advantage of the possibilities that you have, also sending out some signals that you're concerned about the county councils prioritizing school roads and doing something about the poor school roads. Then I think it will also be felt that state politicians and others give more money. The scheme that was in the past was very good, because it made it quite cheap for the state and the county councils, because the municipalities also had to set up with 50 pst. of the grant. So I hope you'll take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1091	Also, I would like to start by saying thank you to the interpellant, Borghild Tenden, who took up this important matter. With regard to those who have spoken in the Chamber today for this interpellation, I note that there is a broad consensus that we have major challenges in the road sector. But let me be allowed to pay tribute to the Minister of Transport for having managed to achieve significant improvements in the budget for transport. I believe that we have a particularly offensive and positively impatient Minister of Transport who would like to make improvements in this area. Let me remind you again that it is this government that has for the first time come up to the level that has been included in the long-term budget of the NTP. So for traffic safety: most speakers have said that we have an increasing traffic. This applies to passenger traffic, commercial traffic and heavy traffic — on all of our roads. It is gratifying to note that we have received greater appropriations in the field of road safety, on roads which to date have not received the necessary improvements. Let me go to my own county, which is Nordland. There I have a good knowledge of it for 12 years as a state politician, also responsible for transportation. I note that there are many school roads that have not received the necessary remedial measures, including pavements in the areas concerned or walking and cycling routes. The same situation I assume is in the rest of the country. Then it is interesting to note that now the Right has come onto the track and wants larger appropriations for the transport sector. I was in my time as a state politician and found that it was a downward trend. Now the Right has turned. I am pleased that the Ministry of Transport has focused on and increased the appropriations for this very purpose. So I'm going to be concrete, and I think the example I'm taking shows how problematic things can be. Rv. 808 from Finneidfjord on E6 to Hemnesberget are facing total renovation due to increasing commercial traffic from business operators on Hemnesberget. I'm not going to go into details there, but the project was actually stopped where you swing down to Hemnesberget, up on the hill, because you borrowed from this project for other purposes. Then we are in the area where we need the most road safety, the road from Hemnesberg and up to the hill where the school is located, is exactly the road where most schoolchildren go – a road without pavement, without walking and cycling paths and with increasing heavy traffic. So my prayer and my appeal to the Council of State must be: see if there is any chance of completing rv. 808 according to the original plan, so that schoolchildren at Hemnesberget can get a safe and safe school route. Then I wish the Council of State luck with the positive work she has done in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1104	I would like to thank the Council of State and all the representatives who have spoken here today. That means there are several people who see that this is an important area. Nothing, as I said in my first post, is more important than the safety of our children. As usual, a lot of speaking time was spent on the previous government. It has stopped surprising me. I've gone into a phase where I think it's stupendous of a majority government to continue with this. I don't want to spend speaking time here today squaring. I want to look forward and be creative. I understand that the representatives of the big business here in this room have been very satisfied with the state of things, especially the committee I'm in. But I'm experiencing a government council that's impatient in this area. I'm glad. I trust that, and I'm going to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1113	First, thank you to the Tendend for raising an important topic, then thank you to the representatives for a good debate with important input that I have noted, for it was very interesting to sit in the Chamber and listen to the debate that has gone. And then it always becomes so that one does some reflections. When I heard representatives Sortevik and Hoksrud and their posts, they talked a lot more about the road. Blackevik talked about the two- and four-field road, and Hoksrud talked about the road, about when the ferry came in and the trailers were going to run. I did not hear – and the reason I am wrong – that the mentioned walking and cycling paths with one word in their posts. Yes, it may be in the Progress Party's logic that we shift responsibility away from us, but for the other parties on the Stortinget, this is about trust in local democracy. There were incentives for walking and cycling roads or for safe school roads, but in the belief that a local could control this better than the Stortinget and the Government, the funds were added to the framework transfer. Then it should just be missing that we don't expect it to be followed up locally. I also want to point out to Bård Hoksrud that 18 billion is going to be worth a piece. I record that the Progress Party will have both school, kindergarten, care – absolutely everything must be governed by government. It is an incredible trust that we, as we are in the government agencies, can do much better than one can at local level. It's not in line with the view of the world of the Center Party or the other two government parties – and fortunately we have multiples. It has been an important mechanism for increasing public transport in cities, and that is why we want to increase them. We're evaluating that arrangement no. There may be changes in the challenges. But what matters to the Government is that we have the best possible policy to make the most of the way to travel collectively, both for the environment and, of course, for better traffic management in our cities. When it comes to the mapping to be carried out, it should just be done by contacting municipalities. Of course it is. The local authorities have important facts. They're going to help us with this, but it has to be done. It must be systematised in order to provide a basis for decisions to be taken in connection with the national transport plan and, where appropriate, other budgetary discussions to be held before the national transport plan is submitted. The representative tend to say that we are using the speaking time of the previous government. That should be positive. One should be able to highlight everything that one did in the previous period, to really show the selections what one stood for, and what this government does not follow up. But then one becomes so unlikely to be offended when we find out what the previous government did. Could it mean that the representatives didn't think it was nice to talk about what they did in the previous government period? Can they actually be ashamed of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1128	That being the case, it is no. 5 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1146	I think it's good that this interpellation has received so much attention in the media. This suggests that the theme is engaged. Not least, it is nice that we have a Minister of Industry who has so clearly signalled support for the proposal for ethical guidelines against sex purchase after the debate was held in the media. Nevertheless, I think it is important that discussion also be taken into account in the Storting, by businessmen, because trafficking in women and children is a global human rights problem that is increasing with globalisation. I am very happy that so many people have contacted me and the website nulltolerance.no and told them that they want to introduce policies against sex purchases in their companies. I would like to praise LO and NHO for the offensive attitude they show in this matter. The LO has implemented guidelines for its employees centrally and has sent letters to all its associations and asked them to do the same. The Code of Ethics of the LO reads as follows: ‘In order to respect the population of the host country and not to damage the trust and esteem you need as a contractor for the LO, you shall not purchase or receive sexual services when travelling abroad or in your own country on behalf of a job or assignment. This rule applies both within and outside the working hours.» The Transport Workers' Association has also introduced the zero-tolerance principle. The NHO adopted ethical guidelines on sex procurement in 2002 and now has a clear recommendation for its national associations on its websites. ‘Serious enterprises must distance themselves from sex purchases’, we can read. Ethics Officer in the NHO, Erik Lundeby, says it is ‘red light for all who travel as representatives of Norwegian enterprises. When not everyone understands that, it's a management responsibility to say from the point of view of everyone in the company. [[...]] [[...]] It is important that all employees perceive the message, says Lundeby. – This is about organised crime and serious abuse, something that serious businesses are far from doing.’ 13 pst. by Norwegian men have purchased sex. The good news is that 87 pst. has not done so. Nevertheless, a significant number of men are involved. We also know that the vast majority – the entire 80 pst. – of the share that has purchased sex, this has been done abroad, often on business trips. At the source.research council.no we can read about interviews among Nordic men showing that the threshold for buying sex from a Nordic woman is much higher than compared to women from Russia, Estonia, Nigeria or Thailand. This is also one of the findings of the Finnish researcher Anne-Maria Martitila’s interview with Finnish men who buy sex in Estonia. This means that we need to use many tools to deal with the problem, and that it does not involve domestic action. Of course not. Some people, such as Trygve Hegnar, want the proposal on ethical guidelines to be an expression of moralism and a lack of respect for privacy. I don't understand. The analysis made by the UN and other serious actors does not say anything about buying sex primarily about morality, but it says a lot about human rights, poverty and equality. This is where we need to focus, as well as show the connection between sex trafficking and organized crime. According to the UN, trafficking in human beings is in the process of passing drugs as the second largest illegal economy in the world, and the profits of this modern slave trade amount to billions of dollars a year. Prostitution and trafficking are two sides of the same coin. It's not easy to draw a clear distinction. We know, for example. countries that have separated voluntary and involuntary prostitution through legalisation often end up as transit countries for traffickers. Janice G. Raymond from the network Coalition Against Trafficking in Women warned during an Oslo visit in 2003 against separating the fight against trafficking from the fight against prostitution as such. Raymond believed that a prerequisite for women and children to be sold is that there is a social acceptance and a market for prostitution. This makes sense. Countries such as the Netherlands, Germany and Australia have been at the forefront of legalisation — a review of ‘professional’ prostitution, official control of brothels and taxing of women. From states in Australia that have legalised prostitution, Coalition Against Trafficking in Women reports on businessmen who organise meetings and lunches in sex clubs, doubling the number of brothels and generalising prostitution. I remember a session at the Nordic Council where the question of the criminalisation of sex purchases came up. Representatives from the Baltic countries and Russia also participated. A male Russian parliamentarian was horrified that the idea of criminalisation was at all thought, and thought it was important to remember that men must have what men must have. He had probably never thought that even women have a sexuality. Others stress the fear of an increase in the number of rapes in society if we take effective action against sex. I think this is a sad debate, and especially men should be concerned about the human vision that comes for a day. That men should be willless creatures without self-control, I don't believe in anything. I have more faith in the man than that. I also think it's in place to ask all those who think prostitution is natural or necessary, whether they think it's okay that their daughter, wife, girlfriend or sister should take responsibility to satisfy all of these willless men's needs and society's need to prevent rape. Of course they won't. There's always someone else's daughters, sisters or wives who's going to do that job. A disappearing small number, if any, of prostitutes would have chosen this profession if they had had good choices. But I still don't agree with those who give a clear description of the sacrifices of women and men who are prostitutes. There are many strong and tough individuals here. In fact, some people experience that prostitution has been a way of gaining greater power over their own bodies – or their own lives. It's a cross of thought, and it says a lot about the terms many women are offered in the world today. In 2002, Norway introduced a ban on the purchase of sex for state employees while travelling. The scope of the ethical guidelines is for civil servants who are on a mission or on a mission both in Norway and abroad. Sickness if the focus of the case is directed at government officials on duty or assignment, the guidelines are so general that they also apply on leisure time when they are on behalf of the state. The following guidelines have been adopted: ‘The purchase or acceptance of sexual services usually involves the exploitation of people in a difficult situation, and women and children will be particularly vulnerable. Such behaviour could also easily have a negative impact on the credibility of the employee and damage the reputation of the enterprise or Norway. An employee shall not, at any time, behave in a manner which may violate human dignity or which is suitable for discrediting the activity or Norway. Any official travelling on duty or discovering the country's account in Norway as well as abroad should therefore refrain from purchase, etc. by sexual services. This shall also apply during the official's free time on such missions.’;» Many organisations, not least aid organisations, and some municipalities have such guidelines. In addition, some companies have such rules. However, many people are satisfied with general rules that do not explicitly mention prostitution, and many have rules that employees are not aware of – because they are not talked about. A short time ago, the ownership message was debated here in the hall. It was established that the majority, all with the exception of the Advance Party, supported the Government's proposal that companies in the form of ethical guidelines for the companies, among others. shall assess the reasons on which the Pension Fund's ethical guidelines are based. In this respect, I can mention that Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has started work on clarifying these guidelines, and she has stated that she wants prostitution-related issues to be included in the legislation. The ownership message states that attention to ethical guidelines forms part of the active ownership policy pursued by the Government. A Joint Economic and Social Committee expects all the companies in which the State holds holdings to comply with high ethical standards in all its activities. Furthermore, the Committee expects all state-owned companies to practice zero tolerance against corruption and has good systems in place to control this. In this regard, I would like to refer to Professor of INSEAD Business School, Ethan B. Kapstein, who in January this year says that it is the same people who are engaged in trafficking in human beings that contribute to an increasingly criminalised world economy, often in cooperation with corrupt officials around the world. When they do not take a settlement with slavery, the nations of the world undermine the foundations of an international system based on economic interaction and enforcement of agreements and laws and laws. Kapstein also says in the Newspaper Magazine that “in absolute numbers, there are more slaves in the world now than they were dealing with slaves across the Atlantic in the 17th and 1800s”. On the basis of this, I would therefore recommend to the Minister of Industry that he use his influence to press for ethical legislation in all the companies in which the State holds holdings, and that he encourage all private-sector enterprises in Norway to do the same. In addition, I would ask him to take up the debate internationally and in meetings with Norwegian employers and employees, so that this could become an active and visible regulation and thus contribute to raising and raising Norwegian men and women to say no to the purchase of sex. I think a lot of employees will appreciate whether zero tolerance rules were put in place. I believe that some people feel a social pressure to behave like a ‘man’, and a clear regulatory framework could help them to set limits – both on sea, for colleagues and for business relations, not least in countries where this is more acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1187	I can start by answering a simple ‘yes’ to the interpellant’s questions. The government will actively use its ownership to prevent slave trade and promote human rights. But these are so important and difficult conditions that they must be tackled far wider than just via state ownership. The government aims to combat all forms of trafficking in human beings both nationally and internationally. We underlined this objective in the Soria Moria Declaration, and we have now presented a new action plan to ensure a common leverage for combating trafficking in human beings. The use of women and children for sexual exploitation forms the basis for trafficking in human beings and maintains the criminal sex market. Purchases of sex can thus help support organised slave trade. Trafficking in human beings is a serious form of crime involving serious violations of the human rights of victims. Criminal networks with disparity in a number of countries tend to be behind them, and other serious crimes are often committed in connection with those activities. The prevention of trafficking in human beings is a social obligation through prevention, enforcement and assistance activities. Since trafficking in human beings is a global and cross-border problem, Norway has committed itself internationally to preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. In June 2006, the government launched a three-year information campaign targeting the general public and sex buyers and potential buyers. Through this wide-ranging information campaign, the Government will seek to contribute to increased knowledge of what trafficking involves for individuals and for society, and we will increase knowledge of the relationship between prostitution and trafficking in human beings. In December 2006, the Government presented the Government’s action plan against trafficking in human beings for the period 2006-2009, ‘Stop trafficking in human beings’. The action plan has been drawn up by a number of ministries and the Ministry of Justice has a primary responsibility to coordinate the government's efforts. Through the Action Plan, the Government facilitates coordinated and coordinated efforts to stop trafficking in human beings. The main objective of the action plan is: to prevent trafficking in human beings through measures that may limit recruitment and demand, to intensify efforts to detect and penalise trafficking in human beings, to provide victims with a comprehensive and adapted supply of assistance and protection. Special attention shall be given to children: The State also has a specific responsibility as an employer. Therefore, ethical guidelines have been developed in the country which prohibit the purchase of sexual services. Those guidelines stress that an employee should not behave in a manner that could violate human dignity or that is suitable for discrediting the activity or Norway. It implies that an employee on behalf of the country in Norway or abroad is to refrain from the purchase of sexual services. When these guidelines were introduced, they were also communicated by the Ministry of Industry and Trade to whole companies where the Ministry managed the State's shares. It is gratifying that business itself has also begun to take these issues seriously. The NHO Ethics and Social Responsibility Committee has recommended that Norwegian companies take a clear and transparent distance from the purchase of sexual services by employees when the company and its employees are involved. The sample suggests that companies should be responsible for finding appropriate means of indicating the attitude and behaviour that this entails. I think that's positive. The government's attitude to the purchase of sexual services and trafficking in human beings is therefore crystal clear, and the government has already put in place a series of measures to bring this evil to life. The state's ownership gives one influence that we also want to use. And we've already started this. In the ownership notice, the Government clearly states that it expects all state-owned companies to develop a set of ethical guidelines. We also say that these guidelines, like the Pension Fund guidelines, should be in line with the UN Global Compact and OECD guidelines for multinational companies. The principles of the United Nations Global Compact encourage companies to develop a high level of awareness of human rights and to work to promote them, based on the basic view that we all have a responsibility. That is why we expect companies with State ownership to work with it. Thus, through the expectations expressed by the Government, both through the Government's action plan and through the requirements now set out in the ownership message, the Government has already begun to use the means of action contained in state ownership. Some of the national companies have already introduced rules on zero tolerance for the sex purchases of employees, including: Statoil and Innovation Norway — they show the way and demonstrate that this can be done. Of course, the country’s active ownership must be carried out within the framework of Norwegian company law. It implies that the Boards of Directors are responsible for assessing and deciding on the concrete measures to be implemented in the companies. But this does not prevent the State, as the dominant owner of many of these companies, from communicating with the board what is expected of them in terms of such relationships. I have every reason to believe that the companies that this is about take these issues seriously, and that it is working to develop internal guidelines, good practice and good attitudes. But in order to assure me that everything that should reasonably be done is done, I will make an enquiry to all the companies concerned about these issues in the follow-up to the ownership notification. There I want to make it clear that in the assessments we make as owners, the state will also focus on the ability and willingness of the companies to care for such fundamental ethical issues as what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1236	I don't have to spend that much time. But I want to give praise once more to the Minister of Industry for having taken that ball so quickly, and that he shows such an offensive attitude as he does here. I think it is important that more governments and also more politicians here than those who usually take this discussion can be involved, because this is about a wide range of instruments and is a problem that affects society as a whole, not least the area of trade and globalisation. The U.S. authorities also issue an annual report on trafficking in human beings, and they claim that the worst regimes in trying to limit trafficking in human beings are Belize, Burma, Cuba, Iran, Laos, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Uzbekistan, Venezuela and Zimbabwe. Some of those countries we have a lot in common with, so it is important that this is also addressed in commercial terms, and that we link the fight against corruption with the fight against trafficking in human beings. It is also the case that both the national meetings of the Workers' Party and the SV have been very clear that a wide range of instruments are needed to address this issue, and that guidelines are one of the things that can be used, but as the Minister of Industry said, it is not possible to have guidelines. They also have to be followed up, and there has to be work to make the companies aware that they exist, and what that means that they exist. I think it is very good that the Minister of Industry will also take on a role in this. Finally, I would like to say that a new campaign related to the zero-tolerance website has been launched.no, called the Oslo initiative against trafficking – or in English: The Oslo Initiative Against Human Trafficking, because they will also target businesses abroad – where they will provide an overview of businesses that introduce zero-tolerance rules, and also offer to come to visit and give lectures on this topic. I think they should be commended for being drivers to get this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1245	The President records that the Council of State does not want the word to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1248	First, thank you to the interpellant for an offensive interpellation. And a thousand thanks to the Minister of Industry for a clear answer, which I very much appreciated. Just to say, it is not acceptable for employees of Norwegian companies abroad to buy sex. Nor is it acceptable for Norwegian companies to facilitate the use of prostitutes in Norway when they have foreign customers on visits. It's two sides of the same thing. Norwegian enterprises shall not contribute to men making women as sales goods. It's just as unacceptable that more and more boys from high school in Oslo are dating prostitutes, or, as shocking teachers tell, when they're on a class tour in Oslo Center, the boys are discussing just how much the girl costs. What's going on in society? In the Netherlands, half of all young men now debut sexually with prostitutes. For a foreign politician, this is unfortunately the negative consequences of the end of the Cold War. Fortunately, most of the consequences are positive. Tens of thousands, not to say hundreds of thousands, of sex slaves now lock into Europe. Trafficking in human beings is now the second highest source of income in international mafia and, as the interpellant said, is in the process of passing drugs, which have first place. What does this do to human vision, to women's vision? Europe is set back several years in time for attitudes to sexual equality. Women – especially slavish and dark-skinned, notice it – have become soldable. So this is the slave trade of our time. It's just as bad in other parts of the world. Last year the Foreign Affairs Committee was in China. In South China, Vietnamese sex slaves lock in to ‘serve’ Western Hong Kong businessmen. Since there are many Norwegian companies, my call to both the Minister of Industry and to the NHO will be that we must be very aware here that the employees or local representatives of these companies have zero tolerance for sex purchases. Everyone agrees that we need to get international action against trafficking, but we need to focus on the market, on the customers. We have to make Norwegian companies aware of what this is all about. I would like to refer to the item on NRK radio on News Day, not so many mornings ago about the Moldovan youth – she was a little girl, I think – who was cut up to be ready and ready to be a prostitute in Turkey. I actually think it's okay to put words on what's about to happen, and that happens, here. Let me add, as I also realized that the Minister of Industry said, zero tolerance for sex purchase must apply to all Norwegian companies, not only where there is state ownership. It is therefore also necessary to consider the prohibition of sex purchase as an integral part of the work on national guidelines for corporate social responsibility. The Development and Environment Forum has forwarded to the Foreign Affairs Committee requirements for guidelines aimed at ensuring that all Norwegian companies and financial institutions, wherever they operate, comply with and promote human rights, including professional rights, women's rights and children's rights, as expressed in their own conventions. At present, only the OECD has proper guidelines for corporate social responsibility. In addition, there is the United Nations Global Compact, which was also addressed by the Council of States. The UN Secretary-General has appointed a Special Representative to continue the work on UN standards for the field of human rights. This work is financed, inter alia: by Norway. I know that the NHO has taken action to make members aware of their social responsibility, and I will challenge the NHO on and ask the Minister of Industry to include zero tolerance for sex purchases as part of such guidelines. As the interpellant also said, the country has zero tolerance for sex purchases in respect of its own employees. This, of course, must also include foreign services and foreign operations. I think it is important to focus both on aid work and on international operations, because we simply have experience that this is happening that should not happen. It also means that we need to work both in NATO, towards the EU and in the UN to get clear guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1271	I'm going to start my speech by quoting a little from a resolution that was adopted at the Country Meeting of the Advance Party yesterday: ‘Human trafficking and trafficking have the third largest turnover in international organised crime, following arms and drug trafficking. Therefore, priority should be given to combating this phenomenon.’ There is much more in that resolution, but it shows that the Progress Party also takes this very seriously, and focuses on it – so that there is no doubt about it. To combat forced prostitution and trafficking in human beings, I think all parties agree. And now you're facing some problems. In the interpellation, it is linked to the fact that zero tolerance for sex purchases should also apply to employees in enterprises where the country is the owner or the partner. It has not been long since we dealt with the ownership message. Then there would have been full opportunity to promote a number of suggestions in that way for the interpellant and her party, if you really wanted to focus on it. But I saw in the position of the case, when we dealt with it, that no proposals had been made. You've got a lot of input for the interpellation today. One of the telephones I have received is from employees of state companies who think it is a little unfortunate that they are pushed forward in such an important matter, and are almost suspected that there is an unculture going on in state companies. It's not. It is only to read the annual report to state enterprises where the State owns either all or part of the enterprise. There has been considerable work in all, most of the companies I know, precisely on this type of challenge – because it is a challenge in such a way that many of these companies are large internationally, and also have to deal with a law that is different from what we know. In Germany, for example, as Trygve Hegnar draws up in the Financial Newspaper, the purchase of sexual services is legal. I'm not saying that it's necessarily right, but it just makes it clear that it's a big and comprehensive problem you're facing. The ethical guidelines have been implemented in all, most of the companies I know. If the interpellant knows something else, it would have been pretty nice to get it informed here today, so that the Minister of Industry can take it further. It is also a fact that there are significant challenges to how to control this. Does this mean that you have to check on your employees during their vacations? The Minister of Industry should be able to explain a little in his final statement how this should be handled, because I see significant challenges in this way. The best way to combat forced prostitution and trafficking in human beings is to provide the judiciary with resources and instruments to prosecute the perpetrators. These are proposals that the Progress Party has been fighting for for a number of years, but unfortunately we have been quite alone in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1295	The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen invites a debate on several measures to combat prostitution and trafficking in human beings – this time by responding to the demand for sex purchases in our own country. I will give the representative Thorkildsen the honour of impatience in action against trafficking in human beings. The demand for sex purchases and the willingness to pay, which unfortunately are present for such services in our own country, are vital drivers of trafficking in human beings. Together with the fight against international poverty and social measures in our own country for the victims, measures to counter the demand for sex purchase must be part of the strategy against trafficking and trafficking. When the Christian People's Party last year promoted a plan of action against trafficking in human beings and prostitution, this plan contained five concrete measures to limit the number of customers buying sex, thus limiting market demand. Some of these measures were recognised in the action plan promoted by the Government last year. So it's a broad political majority to do something active and offensive about this. One of the measures in the action plan to limit demand, for which the Christian People's Party has worked for a long time, is a ban on the purchase of sexual services in Norway. Now there's a majority in the Biggest for this ban. In this context, I would like to express my joy at the fact that both the National Labour Party and the SV National Meeting made a clear decision on this. The Christian People's Party expects a bill for Stortinget rather quickly. So I would also like to say that the Christian People's Party would like to cooperate with the SV and other parties in the continuation, together with the police, non-governmental organisations and others in society in other measures that need to be taken at the same time as the prohibition. The measures proposed by the Christian People's Party in the United Kingdom, and those contained in the Government's action plan, for which there has been good progress, must be given priority and active political support. We also need new measures, which I think will work. As many have already mentioned, the country as an employer has established guidelines that clearly state that the purchase of sexual services by its own employees on service orphanages is not accepted. That's good. I expect that both the local representatives of the Christian People's Party, SVs and other parties in municipalities and county councils are concerned with having similar zero tolerance established in the municipalities' ethical guidelines. In the case of enterprises owned by the State itself or jointly with others, the ownership notification has established that the boards are responsible for the operation of the companies, including the content of the ethical guidelines. The Council of State does not issue detailed directives to companies in areas for which the boards are responsible, but it is clear to the owners that the boards have an active relationship with ethics and the environment and the expectations of society in these areas. There is a good reason to add that, as representatives of the Stortinget, we should like to make a recommendation to the boards of companies to follow this up with active policies and clear positions. It's good social ethic, and it can't possibly be negative for companies' financial performance. But I would like to stress that the expectations that we as representatives of the board of state-owned companies are valid in full in private companies. Whether or not potential sex buyers are members of a state-owned company is less important than the attitude of the business community on this issue. The fight against prostitution and trafficking in human beings must be fought on several fronts. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we must get a ban on the purchase of sex in place quickly. It needs to be followed up by a number of social measures to help victims of trafficking in human beings. This will be the most important work in the future to combat the slave trade in our own country. We also welcome the initiative to make a recommendation on zero tolerance for sex purchases to employees in companies where the State is the owner or the joint owner. The Christian People's Party believes in attitude campaigns. A law ban on the purchase of sex will help to reduce the amount of prostitution and trafficking in human beings, as it has done in Sweden. It is good that all social actors, both in business and professional organisations, impose zero tolerance for the purchase of sex. An attitude campaign must be in addition to a law ban, not rather.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1318	There is a close link between local prostitution and international trafficking in women. In this way, Nordics who buy sex abroad and here at home are involved in building up under one of our greatest human rights violations. Globalization leads to more travel, more travel, and more frequent travel. More and more Norwegians are travelling abroad for work and holidays. Some people buy sex on these trips. The studies show that a significant proportion of men buying sexual services have only bought sex abroad. Everyone has heard old stories about sailors who bought sex when they were at sea. The stories told about a human culture where it was more common than unusual to buy sexual services, and where the peer pressure was great. Often, young first-time travelers were put on a tour of the brothel by more experienced colleagues, and the sex purchase became a sort of confirmation of the male community. Unfortunately, the same mechanisms are living today. Young men who have experience in the purchase of sex tell of comradeships abroad where the whole gang goes on a brothel, and that group membership is an important element in their buying sex. Sex tourism has increased. Fortunately, some travel agencies in Norway have taken the consequences of this, especially of the worst sex tourism, namely child sex tourism, and threaten with boycott of travel destinations where children are exploited without intervention by local authorities. When we see that international prostitution and trafficking in women and children are an increasing problem, we need to address that there is the demand for sexual services that lay the basis for such trafficking in human beings and such an industry. Of course, the state has a responsibility to prevent human beings from being violated as victims of trafficking in human beings. Ethical guidelines against the purchase and acceptance of sexual services in businesses and organisations are a clear and necessary signal of what ethical and moral expectations we have. I am particularly concerned about the aid sector in this context. Aid workers, on the one hand, must contribute to a positive development in the country in which they operate, but aid workers at the same time have committed abuse by buying sex. In my opinion, abuse in the aid sector is among the most serious examples of how things go wrong. The fact that the aid industry can help lay the foundations for and increase prostitution is a huge paradox. Therefore, it is good that all the major Norwegian organisations in this field have strong and clear guidelines for their employees, and that this is also something that is being debated openly. I am very pleased that some of the first political leaders in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did in their meeting with NATO after the government change, was just to address it with soldiers in foreign service buying sex, thereby creating and maintaining a market for the exploitation of women. Development Minister Solheim has also addressed the issue of the aid environment at home. He's right that the theme men who buy sex is a very taboo area. There's something that's perceived as private, and there's not much talk about it in public. That's why we need this kind of interpellations. We need politicians who knock down on men buying sex. We need laws and regulations against, and we need other measures to prevent girls from becoming victims of prostitution. Should men stop buying sex, we need more than one letter in the State Staff Manual. I don't think the problem is that we don't have well enough formulated guidelines, but I think that the penalty possibilities for breaching these guidelines are often not clear, and that the threshold for alerting may be too high. Ethical guidelines that do not have consequences to break are of little value. If the threshold among colleagues for alerting is too high, people can actually do as they please, and buy sex in confidence that they will never be reported – and then fan the ethical guidelines as a defense, if the topic of conversation should come up. Guidelines must never become a sleeper cushion to look for even more measures to do more to avoid the purchase of children and women and the purchase of sex by men. But we must also never abdicate and not say that it is totally unacceptable to buy sex because it is just hard to check whether the guidelines are being followed, as I believe the representative of the Progress Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1348	When a poor girl from Nigeria is abducted and forced to sell her body on a street corner in Oslo, when a ten-year-old novelist is set to steal wallets in a business center in Horten, when lucky Eastern Europeans with the hope of a better future in the West pay large sums to human traffickers to come to Norway, when children are deprived of childhood and are set to link carpets in Afghanistan, when foreign workers are eaten off with lice wages under mission in Norway, all of this, according to my concepts, is part of the modern slavery known as human trafficking, where children, women and workers are exploited most seriously, and where the backers run off with the great profits. A trade union trustee told me this day that a Polish post office company would deposit more than NOK 200,000 a week by renting 50 underpaid Polish workers to Norwegian employers. We like to call it social dumping, but also the circulation of labour is now being organised and increasingly run by international mafia, with slave contracts that are almost impossible to get out of, and with criminal methods that hit children/family if anyone breaks the links. Therefore, it is important that the interpellant now raises a debate on the slave trade of our time, and in this context focuses on sex trafficking. I don't belong to those who, on a moral basis first and foremost, are appalled that men buy sex. It has men made at all times, and there are likely men to continue in the future. Nevertheless, morals and attitudes are of great importance to our common behaviour. However, when I support the criminalisation of whore dogs in Norway, it is for other reasons. I think it can help limit a strong growing market. In short, if fewer people buy sex in the street in Oslo, there will also be fewer street prostitutes. The behaviour of Norwegian business travellers abroad is hardly better or worse than that of other business travellers. I don't think it will have a particularly strong impact on the international sex market if the Norwegians travel. When I think Norwegian companies like the state, the municipalities and the big organizations should have zero tolerance for sex purchases as part of their ethical code, it's simply because it should be our attitude. The companies which the State itself owns, in part or in whole, must take precedence. And the good example should never be underestimated. The victims of human trafficking have become more visible in recent years, the debate on what to do to combat and prevent this, as well. But the visibility has caused more people to react. And that's good. We have a common responsibility to combat trafficking in human beings, both in our own country and internationally. As early as 1949, the UN adopted a Convention on the Elimination of Trafficking in Human Beings and Prostitutions, but little has happened since. A growing and affordable market with sky-high profits for the backers makes us likely to be further away from the goal now than then. But that doesn't mean we're going to give up. The fight must be intensified. We need to do more to combat and defeat trafficking in human beings. We have to go new ways. I think the Government's action plan on trafficking in human beings is a significant contribution to this. So the state has introduced rules against the purchase and acceptance of sexual services for its employees. That means a lot, because the state is one of the largest employers in the country. The LO today encourages all members of the association and the other social partners to introduce rules against the purchase of sexual services. The NHO means the same thing. It is important and gratifying that social organisations address this, also because sex trafficking has been used and is still part of the lubricating culture of international business. In my previous life, I have worked on information and communication as a means of changing attitudes and influencing behavior. Deepest, I guess that's what we're doing, all of us doing political business -- although some of them are more unresponsive than others. Positions are not formed in the short term. They are only created over time. Last year the government launched a three-year information campaign against trafficking in human beings. It is affordable, although three years is a relatively short perspective on attitudes to be created. But campaigns can, as you know, be extended. The main thing is that in our society and business life, we have a constant eye on human trafficking. To help us with that, we have, among other things, and fortunately, No Marte Thorkildsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1368	First, I would like to thank Steinar Gullvåg for the good words. I would also like to thank you for being so clear and clear a commitment from, after all, so many people who have been here in the Chamber, with the exception of one, from the Progress Party. It surprises me, I'll say a little bit about it afterwards. But first I want to say that this area we're going to follow on, and we're many who are going to follow on. I believe we have received a good action plan against trafficking in women and children. It is funny that the drawing on the front page of the action plan was made by a girl in Albania as former Secretary of State Anne Rygg Pedersen of the Workers' Party and I met when we were on an anti-trafficking campaign in Tirana and Shkodra last year. I think at least it's important to stress that no matter what kind of instruments we put in here, we never have to let any of them become a sleeping cushion. We need a lot of concrete measures, we need to ask for them and follow them up. I also think there is a risk that a law ban – which I have been very skeptical about – could end up like a sleeping cushion, if we do not ensure that there is a range of other measures in place. We must also always be in dialogue with prostitutes, even though they perceive both the actions being developed and the way they work, and the attitudes they feel they are meeting on the part of society. I'm very concerned about that. I am concerned that the guidelines to be established in the companies must not be entirely general. The problem needs to be addressed, as Marit Nybakk illustrated by her post – she put words on something that is really too bad to be able to do properly. We need to discuss, as Anette Trettebergstuen was also involved, what sanctions are available to us. At least a staff case has to be established when it is discovered that there is a breach of the guidelines. I would like to say to the Christian People's Party: Yes, we like to cooperate – very much. This is an area in which we're not going to let it go in any way – here we're going to try to get effective tools. With regard to the Progress Party, I am very surprised at the backward attitude that they have. The focus is on those who have to feel suspicious. I see that the Progress Party is not here now, but I should like to know if they are really in favour of or against this measure. It was completely impossible to understand from what Øyvind Korsberg said. A focus with a division into forced prostitution on the one hand and voluntary prostitution on the other is to go straight into the ditch. It's a completely wrong focuser. I believe that a policy that is not offensive neither to poverty nor to differences in the world, to discrimination against women or to the demand side in terms of the purchase of sex, shows that they are simply taken up on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1383	I was also going to start my last post with a short reply to the representative, Korsberg, whom I registered, spoke and went. But anyway – a short comment: When the representative of Korsberg criticises the interpellant and other depositors for not stressing this topic related to the ownership message, I completely disagree with the representative of Korsberg. For my part, when the Stortinget has agreed with the Government's proposal that we expect ethical directions from the companies in which the state is a partner, it is a confirmation that we want to believe something about the issue of the purchase of sexual services – although such a communication does not, of course, contain a concrete table of contents of what should be stated in the ethical guidelines. I have seen the decision of the big business in connection with the ownership message as a connection, and not – as the representative Korsberg – as a deficiency in the question of having this as part of the ethical guidelines. I also do not think that the representative of Korsberg's reference to that, for example. In Germany, prostitution is legal and, therefore, it becomes difficult, is an argument for not doing anything. When it's hard, there's probably more need to do more, and not to sit down with your hands in jail and say that these are looted. I want to say that, for example, has actually incorporated Innovation Norway, instead of having it as part of its ethical guidelines, into the Rules of Procedure. For me, that's a good solution. The point is that it is clear that the company has an attitude towards buying sexual services for its employees when they represent the company, even in their spare time when they represent the company abroad. I am pleased with the support of the Christian People's Party for what has been discussed here today – I am not surprised, of course – represented by the representative Tørresdal. But let me still say that if the National Assembly of the Workers' Party had only taken decisions prohibiting the purchase of sexual services, it would have been a poor decision. However, we have taken decisions on many measures in addition to that, because we must not believe that this will be resolved primarily as a legal issue. We must have all the social measures that should follow the decision on legal changes, if there is to be a whole of the measures we are taking against prostitution and the purchase of sexual services. So I'm glad that the private business, represented by NHO and LO, is clearly on the same line that I and the interpellant and others here have expressed. I think we're going to have a lot of people with us in that every company should have the attitude that their representatives on foreign travel are abstaining from the purchase of sexual services. The ownership message I believe is a good starting point for it, both in the ongoing follow-up I'm going to have with the companies, and in the themes I'm going to address when we're going to have a ownership conference with all the companies where the state is a partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1396	The debate on substance is then closed. Six over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1407	The cancellation goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1430	During the debate, the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size request of the Government as soon as possible and, at the latest, in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2007, submit proposals to the Storting regarding the conversion of the licence payment to the NRK.’ Ulf Erik Knudsen – for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1438	Not so much in words, but in practical action, the Government has supported the proposers, in the form that they have promoted a proposition in this area today. It is then natural for the proposers to draw up their proposals. However, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left will nevertheless vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1445	The proposal is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1462	In Case No: 3–6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-14.ana.ud1929e1588	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
