ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e43	In the absence of the Grand President, I shall give a brief explanation of the background to the majority voting from the Presidency. What the Storting must decide on is a formal proposal for a representative to amend the Storting's Rules of Procedure, more specifically by adding a new sub-paragraph under Section 13 which provides the basis for the creation of a new selection. However, it is clear from the attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that this raises a whole range of questions of a constitutional nature, namely the understanding of the division of responsibilities between the executive authority and the legislative authority, and it also raises a whole range of questions on how the Stortinget organises its own internal working arrangements. Let me therefore start by stressing that, in my opinion, a proposal for a representative is not a good basis for taking a position on this type of question. In the last year of the previous enlargement period, we had an investigation into the committee structure of the Storting, and it led to a decision at the end of the previous enlargement period underpinning the rules of procedure at this point. In that investigation, no questions were raised, as far as I recall, of the type raised in the draft representative. It should have happened if you wanted to make a change on this point, because then it would have been possible to make a serious assessment of the consequences of creating such a sample. Let me also add that the Stortinget had a very comprehensive review of Stortingen's control function, which is one of the main arguments behind the proposal for a representative, the Frøiland Committee's investigation, which has since also led the Stortinget to launch a number of follow-up cases, including: the question of the amendment of the national law regime. Nor was this wish raised in this context, and therefore was it not discussed. When the majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the majority of the Presidency propose to reject this proposal, it is because we cannot see that there is evidence that there is an unmet need in the Storting's own internal working system in this area. It is also because we believe that setting up a Security Committee would create far more problems than it would solve, because it would create ambiguity both about the division of responsibilities between the state powers and about the division of responsibilities between the Storting's own preparatory bodies. In addition to this, following up on the proposal, as it is designed, would also break very strongly with what is otherwise the basis for the composition of the Enlarged Bureau's preparatory bodies. Providing a body of this kind with a not insignificant element of what the draft representative calls the leadership trio of two selected professional committees would be a fragmented new way of putting together bodies in the Storting. Everyone knows that the way in which comitology is distributed in the context of the formation of a new magnification is a result of a wide range of considerations and can have a not insignificant element of randomness in relation to the question of what is representative of the political distribution of strength in the Storting. It would therefore include in the composition of such a sample a not insignificant measure of randomness, which would weaken the representativeness of the sample in terms of size as a determining body. Finally, the basic question remains, of course, the starting point for the proposers. There is no disagreement that the safety challenges are significant, but there is good reason to point out that there is a lack of clarity in the justification. The vast majority of threats to internal security in both Norway and other societies today come from the international organised form of crime and terrorism. In most cases, it is about challenges that naturally fall within the scope of security policy as a concept. Among the issues raised during the previous period in the review of the committee structure, the question of whether there is no time to merge the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee into a single Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. For my part, I am quite convinced that it would have been a forward-looking and well-founded reform, but unfortunately it did not have enough excitement when the Stortinge dealt with that issue at the end of the previous period. Such a reform would have created a clearer structure for the Storting's way of dealing with this complex of cases. Finally, let me point out that the reasons for the proposal for a representative have not included any provision on the division of responsibilities between any new Safety Committee and the Control and Constitutional Committee, or on the division of responsibilities between this and the Judicial Committee, the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, respectively. On the other hand, the extended foreign committee has been used as a kind of pattern. That is why, with the agreement of the majority of the Presidency, the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs believes that most of the considerations to be taken into account have already been respected in the Rules of Procedure on the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs. The enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee is not a normal preparatory committee, but a consultative body in which the Government can informally consult the Stortinget and ensure that there is an uproar from a majority in the Stortinget on the positions the Government intends to take, in a matter which is the responsibility of the Government and not of the Stortinget. It appeared several times during the last growing-up period that the Minister of Justice explained this type of problem in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. As far as I can see, there is nothing in today's Rules of Procedure that prevents such a practice from continuing, when there are cases in this field in which the Government wants to obtain the view of the Storting. It is suggested in the vote that perhaps one should consider whether the Minister of Justice should be explicitly mentioned in the existing paragraph on the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. At my discretion, it's a relatively uninteresting issue. I clearly perceive the practice and practice of the government – not the individual state council – as consulting the Stortinget. Of course, when Section 13 explicitly mentions the ‘Minister of State’ and the ‘Minister of Foreign Affairs’, it cannot be interpreted exclusively that it excludes the involvement of the other members of the Government in their matters, but it is a firm practice in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee that it is the Minister of Foreign Affairs who represents the Government, together with the Councils of State which have constitutional responsibility in the matter in question. Today's practice is, in my opinion, entirely satisfactory, and I cannot see any reason why one should not be able to continue with it, without any explicit permission being given for it in Section 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e69	For many years, work on social security and preparedness for terrorism has been the subject of more investigations as well as changes. The size has addressed a number of issues relating to this important theme. Part of the work to protect society from terror and undermining activities is such that its transparency must be limited, both for the public and for parts of the political environment. The reasons are obvious, but of course there are dilemmas in terms of democratic and parliamentary control. For this reason, a separate control body has also been set up to monitor, on behalf of Stortingen, the performance of the services in question within the framework laid down. The changes that have taken place in the international threat scene raise new demands for the necessary countermeasures, such as: leads to a greater impact on civil society. We notice it not least as air passengers. This again calls for greater transparency on the reasons for the measures taken. This is also the background to the annual threat assessment published by the Police Security Service on its websites. The Minister of Justice has said in reply to questions from the Stortinget that he wants more transparency and information to the Stortinget, and to the general public, about the operation of the PST and the resource situation. The majority of the Control and Constitutional Committee points out that there is a need for the Storting to be kept systematically and regularly informed of the assessments made around the threat picture and social security. The processing of the annual report by the EEA Committee is part of this work. The Joint Defence Committee has been entrusted with tasks in this area. The President of the Grand Duchy receives regular briefings, and the Government will be able to provide information at any time to the Grand Duchy, either in plenary — if necessary in a closed session — or to the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. As the representative on the pay side said, the need for information and consultation channels between government and growth in this area is well covered. If you want to further strengthen this information, the Committee of Inquiry points to the possibility of amending Section 13 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the Minister of Justice is also given the opportunity to ask the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee to be briefed without having the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as Inge Wohnning pointed out was practice, but that a more direct opening was given. The presidency says that this raises some issues, and that they will come back to this. There is therefore a broad consensus that this area poses new challenges and demands for information, both between government and growth and against the public. The representative Inge Wohnning pointed to some formal issues related to the representative’s proposal from, among others: Carl I. Hagen and Siv Jensen. I will address the substantive issues related to the content of the proposal a little bit more. The majority both in the Presidency and in the Control Committee believe that this proposal is not a good response to the challenges we face in this area. First, there may be considerable doubts as to whether the mandate proposed for such a committee is in accordance with the Basic Law, Section 3. The mandate goes far into the operational sphere and thus into the responsibility of the executive. According to the proposal, such a committee would include: have the task of discussing with the Government important issues relating to anti-terrorism, contingency plans and operational security measures, not only to establishments and institutions but also to officials, and such discussions should take place before important decisions are taken. The size is well suited to a lot of sense, but as an executive and operational body it is not the most appropriate. That is why we have shared responsibility between a legislative and admissibility authority and a executive authority. In order to play such an operational and executive role as that of this Committee, the President and Vice-President of the Grand Duchy, the parliamentary leaders and the leadership of the Defence Committee and the Justice Committee should therefore be appointed. At today's height, there would probably be a total of 15 people, who, first of all, don't reflect the composition of the Storing, as all the other bodies of the Storing do. Secondly, this assembly would be among the leading candidates of authority to be the subject of threats and thus of possible safeguard measures. Now, big business representatives are not subject to the rules on stability, but I think there would be something inexorable about the President of the Storting or one of the parliamentary leaders being the subject of consultation in such a committee on the relevant measures in a threat situation addressed to their own people. This composition raises many questions: What emphasis should the Government place on the advice given in the Committee? Who would be responsible afterwards, the Government or the Security Committee? The fact that such consultations were to be carried out in advance is, in operational terms, little luck, to say it carefully. That evening in April 1986, when the Willoch government raised cabinet questions and we had a government crisis, a threat was called against the Labour Party parliamentary leader. Shortly thereafter, the police were in place here in the house. If this proposal had been implemented, it should have been called to the Security Committee first to discuss what action would be taken. The majority and the minority share the wish of the proposers for Norway to be as equipped as possible to withstand crises and terrorism. But clawing into the division of responsibilities and work between the legislative and executive powers, as proposed by a separate safety committee, is not a good contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e102	Let me first say that I am pleased that both Inge Wohnning and Svein Roald Hansen agree that there are important issues that are addressed, and that they both underline, as I interpret it, that it is also important in this area that the Government should be able to provide information to and consult the Stortinget. That's really what this proposal is about, instituting a system to do that. The absence of this proposal in the context of the review of the structure of the standing committees is due to the fact that this is not part of the structure of the standing committees. It is a consultative committee which has been proposed here. In this respect, it is directly relevant to compare it with the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee which previously had the EEA Committee, but which has been amended, so that it is also the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs. However, in order to have EEA consultations, the members of the Norwegian delegation to the EEA Parliamentary Committee are also included. So we already have two consultative systems, on the EEA and on foreign policy, trade and security policy issues. Several of the objections put forward by Mr Roald Hansen, I find it difficult to understand, because the wording of our proposal is identical to the wording of the Rules of Procedure on the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs, where it is, among other things. states that ‘so that discussion should take place before major decisions are taken’. It is the same wording that has been included in the proposal for a Security Committee. It does not mean that, as Hansen tried to do at the end of his speech, the Safety Committee will discuss individual cases which may arise in operational terms. These are the operational systems, the major, important issues that the Storting today has no knowledge of, like what was thought of. I am a little surprised that no government has felt a greater need to ensure more political back coverage in Stortinget through consultations. If there were to be some kind of terrorist act in Norway – which we all hope will not happen – there would probably be a requirement to investigate, to investigate. What errors have been made? Why wasn't that better surveillance? Why wasn't the environment more closely followed by the police security service? Why didn't you have any more informants? Why didn't you know in time? And why did you have too weak resources to detect plans and prevent them? Then you'll also ask, where has the Storting been? The answer is, in fact, that this is something that has been fully trusted that the government handled, without really putting any particular information ahead of the Storting. It's the only area I'm familiar with, where the Storting is not part of the overall decision-making system. We have regular meetings in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, but we have never, as far as I know, had a meeting where we have been thoroughly briefed on how our contingency plans, our monitoring and our actions to prevent terrorist acts have actually been involved. We have the general debates. But when we propose a separate safety committee, it's based on an experience that Inge Wohnung didn't mention with regard to the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, namely that members can ask for a hearing. You can ask for meetings, and you can ask for presentations. It is suggested by Svein Roald Hansen and Inge Wohnning that it is possible for members of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee to ask for the Minister of Justice to come and explain the extent of the monitoring of extreme environments, including extreme Islamic environments, in Norway. I have not interpreted it there that we have the opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice to meet in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee to make such a statement and to answer the necessary questions as to whether our preparedness is good enough. So if an action were to take place, I think the situation would be that more would say that this is exclusively for the government, and that we really have no responsibility. In budgetary terms, too, there is a part that is not passed on to the Stortinget. I would have thought that a government would feel more comfortable if it had a committee that it could consult and orient, in order to secure political back coverage for the measures that the government chooses to have in terms of being ready to fight terrorism and to prevent acts of terrorism. It's absolutely right that this is a special construction from our side. I have no problem seeing that there might be other ways to do it. If that results in a return after the majority of the Presidency on a later occasion, I think you could do it now, which I allowed to write in my remark. A decision could now be made: I am very pleased that the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee could be used as a consultative body in the area of terrorism, and that the members of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee could ask for matters to be put on the agenda, including asking members of the government to meet to brief and answer questions. But why can't you adopt it now? Now you want to come back to it later. I believe that this proposal for a representative could have been adopted at this stage. Then I had a little feeling that Svein Roald Hansen was the devil's lawyer and read all sorts of strange objections he could find against the proposal. Several of them I think were actually irrelevant and not correct, but I'll leave it. Our whole main idea is that the Storting must take on a more active control role in this area too, precisely in order to help ensure that our preparedness is optimal. If, for example: would be a large majority of the Stortinget who would have wanted more comprehensive security measures if they had been prepared for the situation, that would be an advantage for this work. It would also be an advantage to the Government. So I'm a little surprised that the government in this area, which in most countries has become very, very important and has brought about significant organisational changes, has actually not made so many major changes in Norway, except for the preparedness changes made with regard to the new directorate, and some other things. That the Storting should have a greater degree of participation and carry out its ordinary constitutional control tasks better than what is being done today, we will maintain. Of course, if it is suggested that this can be done through the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee – there are as many people there, but there is a different composition – it is also a long step in a sensible direction. On this basis, I refer to the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e123	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e126	SV supports the majority comment in the option. However, I would like to clarify three aspects of why we are opposed to this proposal. First of all, we think that we should have the most openness in the Stortinget and the least possible secrecy. Such a selection as it proposed would have to be very closed. One thing is that the meetings of the committee shall be secret, the meetings between the committee and other committees shall be secret, and the convocations shall also be secret. I think it's important that Storting's activity is as secret as possible, as open as possible. As pointed out, we do have an enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee where there are closed meetings. In recent times, we have registered that the Progress Party has on several occasions asked to move matters that have been discussed in the enlarged Foreign Committee, into Stortinget. SV is pleased that several of the debates traditionally held in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee have been moved into the main hall. That is why we do not want new committees or committees to come up with this secret. Secondly, like both the representative of Wage and the representative of Hansen pointed to, a composition of this sample does not represent the composition of the Storting. We think that in itself is a major democratic problem, and therefore we believe that the way to put together a sample is very unfortunate. Thirdly, today we have a sample called the EOS Committee, which came after the Lund Commission's work. International attention has been paid to that sample. Many believe that what we have done in Norway is exciting in view of the fact that the Stortinget has its own body that accompanies the intelligence, surveillance and security services. We also have the impression that this sample has great legitimacy in the Norwegian population. We believe that a new security committee could have led to a ambiguity in the relationship between the Storting and the EOS Committee. That is why we are opposed to the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e137	There is no doubt that there have been changes in the international threat picture over time that require both increased vigilance and enhanced preparedness also by the Norwegian authorities. As both the representative Inge Wohnung and the case rapporteur for the work on the matter in the control committee, Svein Roald Hansen, have already explained in their contributions, a number of measures have been taken which just mean such enhanced preparedness. Several have been inside these. They are also listed in the majority comments in the vote from the Supervisory Committee to the Presidency, and I see no reason to repeat neither this list nor what has already been said. However, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we will stress the need for the current threat situation to be continuously the subject of illumination and assessment of competent bodies, including the assessment of whether we have sufficient apparatus at all times to meet the threat in question, and whether this apparatus is functioning as intended. This responsibility is ours at all times. As far as I can see, neither the rapporteur's statement nor anything else has led to the fact that we do not have a good enough preparedness system today or that safety has not been adequately ensured. Of course, such a threat assessment can often be based on complex discretionary considerations. However, if it is a matter of setting up a new and superior body, such as the Security Committee of the Grand Duchy, it will also require a much more thorough investigation than that carried out in the proposal by the proposers. This was also pointed out by the representative of Inge Wohnung. Mr Hansen also pointed out that, as it stands, the proposal could possibly be contrary to the Constitution. I hear that the representative Hagen believes it is based on a misunderstanding. It could be. But at least it has not been sufficiently clarified either in advance of the process or during the process. Before proposing new bodies, it would be wise to start by assessing the extent to which the bodies that already exist meet the requirements that should be set in it at all times. So far it doesn't seem to have been shown anything that suggests that we need to create more organs than the ones we already have. Having said that, I would like to stress, like others, that it is appropriate to consider whether adjustments should be made to the existing structure. One example is that the Minister of Justice may address the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee directly instead of having to contact the Prime Minister. But even this, of course, raises some questions that may have to be resolved. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have also indicated in the process what has now also been mentioned by the representative of Hagen, that it may be appropriate to allow the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee to be, to a greater extent than at present, an up-to-date body which can be a consultative body, even in the context of the internal threat picture. One may also consider a change of name to, for example: ‘the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security’. This was aired both during the work of the Control Committee and also in the Presidency, without anyone looking at such an idea. This led to no proposal being made on it, and it does well not be possible to adopt anything about it today, as the representative Hagen now seems to think we should do. In that case, you will get back to it in the Presidency's further work on the matter. As far as I also understand the representative's salary, this could be done without any modification of Storting's Rules of Procedure. I find here no reason to go into any further argument about this proposal by the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party has concluded that the proposal for a new Security Committee proposed will not be appropriate. I just refer to the comments that we have had with the majority on, both in the committee and in the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e156	The left will follow the majority, but I find reason to attach some comments to the proposal. For my part, I see that the aim is to ensure awareness and discussion of important security issues. That is the purpose of the proposal. I want to say with the background I have, and the different roles I've had in my life, that it's an important purpose in itself. In this context, I wonder a little bit about the fact that the Committee on Control and Constitution has not pointed out the expectations of the previous government, namely that we should regularly come to Stortinget with so-called vulnerability messages. The Bondevik II government made a communication in 2002 and 2004. At least it is an instrument that Stortinget should maintain – regular vulnerability messages. Some may say that they have to comply with the long-term defence plan in parallel, but in the previous enlargement it was decided in 2002 and 2004. It's an instrument that I think the Storting should hold on to, and that I'm going to ask that the government's representative in the hall at least take on board, because it provides a systematic opportunity to look at the unpleasant conditions that might occur around us, not because it's everyday, but because the situation is that when the unexpected occurs, it's quite unexpected. How to raise awareness in a country, including the people of the country, about how to think about the unimaginable without ending in (a) the psychosis on the one hand or (b) the naivety on the other, that is the core of democracy. I perceive that this is the purpose behind it. With regard to the practical ways of doing this, I think there are some progress lines that can be used in a beneficial way and that the majority have pointed out. I would like to point out that the Minister of Justice in the current year's budget debate, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and the Police, said that he would add to greater transparency about the situation of the police security services resource. There was general agreement in Stortinget, and I was one of those who agreed to it. I believe that the Storting should be concerned about, is the framework and prerequisites for such a security service to do its job. The majority have assured themselves that the job they are doing will be done in accordance with the rule of law, through the EOS Committee. But it's the Vulnerability message and the budget proposition to the Justice Department that makes you say more. I thought it was positive, even with the experience I have, that the Minister of Justice came up with it. When that's the case, it's because this was a problem I was concerned about – even at the time challenged by the representative Hagen, but there's nothing wrong with being challenged by the representative Hagen. Then you have to sit down and think, and you have to think in terms of the whole thing around you. I'm defining the main purpose as I've now done. Along these two axes, through the Vulnerability Communication and the budget proposal and greater transparency, the Biggest should be concerned about how well equipped one is to deal with the different situations. I also think it is quite possible to use the track that has been pointed to, the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. The Presidency itself has pointed out that there is a question that the majority of the Committee on Control has expressed that they will be able to look at. I would like to support that view and ask that you actively look at it. Then I agree with the views expressed by the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and also by the majority of the Presidency, that there must be a clear line between the legislative and executive powers. There must be a line that is such that there will be no pulverisation of responsibility. It is now such that there are some inconveniences in having responsibility. However, what I see, when I interpret it kindly, is that the representative Hagen's intention is that elected representatives should also be involved as citizens and elected by the people in terms of the situation for the country, including in unpleasant areas. My contribution to this is the views I have now expressed, where I will once again stress the need for us to receive regular security messages, that I expect the Minister of Justice to follow up the line he outlined in an excellent way when we had the budget debate here in the house, and that the Storting will also find its shape in relation to how we can conduct debates on the unmistakable without ending up in what I have called the one extreme point. If we think about it every day, we're going to have a permanent psychosis. If we never think about it, we end up in the situation that we can call the great naivety. There's a big balance between these two extremes. It's the democratic balance room that makes us involved and able to think about unpleasant things. I feel that this is a debate that has not been concluded. We're probably going to have to be looking at this as a society. I would like to stress very strongly: the whole starting point is that it happens after the division of responsibilities constitutionally in society, and that it happens according to the principles of the rule of law. In itself, introducing unpleasant topics is a challenge. I simply went to the pulpit to provide support for someone, regardless of name and reputation, to raise an unpleasant subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e171	The Centre Party also participates in the multilateral recommendation of the Control and Constitutional Committee. I'm just going to make a few brief comments on our part. First of all, the proposal we have put forward has itself seen the search light on the need to be more systematically oriented in the Stortinget on PST's assessments and PST's work. It's positive. A request has been made if it is now included in the multiple recommendation. Secondly, the work on this proposal has also made it apparent that the Minister of Justice, through annual budget proposals and bank statements, provides information on both the tasks of the PST and the assessments that have been made of the general threat picture. It is underlined that this will also be followed up on. In addition, there has been a further clarification of the arrangements and possibilities in the Storting per year. date, based on the acute needs that may arise both to receive and to provide information. Thirdly, there is an own control selection, the EOS selection, that carries out its work over the year, and that gives its annual messages to the Stortinget. These will be the subject of annual debates here. We find it positive and useful that the question has been raised as it is, by the Progress Party. We fully share the assessments that the multiples have made. Let me add: I think Svein Roald Hansen, who is the case-speaker in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, has well prepared his recommendation for the majority. It is also good to record that the Presidency has followed this up as they have done, that they will also consider how the government can provide information, and how the Storing can ask for information, and that they will come back to it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e190	First a few minor clarifications on some things that have been said in the debate. It was shown by the representative Hagen that the review we had of the committee structure in Stortingen in the previous period, and to which I referred, had nothing to do with the composition and function of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. It's directly wrong. It was discussed in detail in the sample, and it also led to changes to the provisions of Section 13 on the composition of the Foreign Affairs Committee. So it would have been full opportunity, very natural even, to promote the desire for a new parallel committee to the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee at that time, if you had come up with the idea. So the representative told Ryan that a significant motivation for SV to oppose the proposal for a representative is that one is in principle against secrecy and therefore is implicitly opposed to establishing a body of this type. But it can put the misunderstanding close, which I have registered also applies in other contexts, namely that the usual committee meetings in Stortinget are open. They're the ones who don't know. There are no committee meetings in Stortinget that are open. Only the hearings of the committees shall be open. Now, of course, it is right, as Mr Hagen pointed out, that there is a difference of substance between the Permanent Committees of the Grand Duchy and the extraordinary consultative bodies, and the difference lies in the fact that the Standing Committees have a procedural function for the Grand Duchy in plenary and for the departments of the Grand Duchy. The consultative bodies do not. Let me so underline that I think this debate confirms what I said in my first speech, namely that, in general, the proposal for a representative is a poor basis for conducting this type of debate, simply because they could never be based on an investigation and a discussion of the consequences of making changes to the Rules of Procedure in the way that normal prepared matters are. I still think it is remarkable that a proposal can be made to set up such a body on the grounds – I quote from the basis of premise – that one wants to end the ‘burden will continue to give up its normal control and policy-setting constitutional functions in this field’. There must be reason to recall that there is no such thing as the exercise by the Storting of its admissibility and legislative powers, either in this area or in any other area, either in the Rules of Procedure or elsewhere. The aggregate has full access to its general admissibility and legislative authority in the way that the Storting itself considers it to be too good. No one can make restrictions on it. There are no restrictions on the questions that individual representatives may ask, there are no restrictions on the overall control function of the control committee vis-à-vis the government, either in this or in any other area. That is why, in my opinion, it is directly wrong to present it as if the Stortinget today does not discharge its constitutional responsibility in this area. That's why, I think, almost alarmingly too, one cannot, when it comes to justifying such a far-reaching proposal on the working system of the Stortinge, at all, mention the fact that the Stortinge has taken its constitutional responsibility in this area – in contrast to all other areas – so seriously that a separate selection, the EOS Committee, has been set up, which is supposed to follow the course of action in this area, because it normally requires a much higher level of secrecy than the otherwise applicable in our society. After all, the Storting has long since taken the consequences of this. That sample performs its task and delivers annual reports to the Stortinget, and the Storting itself has the full responsibility for how the Stortinget treats the reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e205	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1697]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e221	At the request of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per batch and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that lines are not allowed after the individual posts, and that those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e228	The National Audit Office’s study on the monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity and the management of protected areas was presented in September 2006. The purpose of the report was to evaluate the monitoring and monitoring work in relation to the objective of having a knowledge-based management system in place by 2007 and, in particular, to evaluate the extent to which areas protected under the Nature Conservation Act are managed in line with their respective protection objectives. The establishment of the National Biodiversity Monitoring and Monitoring Programme represents innovative work, according to the report. At the same time, it is regrettable that the report demonstrates a lack of common understanding and platform for the programme's contribution and benefits. This appears to have led to a variety of contributions from the different departments and to a lack of prioritisation of time or resources to investigate important and necessary measures. According to St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002, the National Biodiversity Monitoring and Monitoring Programme should be the cornerstone of the knowledge-based management system. Furthermore, it was established during the consideration of St.meld by the Energy and Environment Committee. No 42 for 2000-2001: «the knowledge acquired through the monitoring of biodiversity must be easily accessible to decision-makers and the public». It's now six years since these targets were set. It is therefore regrettable that, according to the Riksrevision report, it does not appear to be clear which measures should actually be implemented and how best to implement them. The report also points out that the municipal and national monitoring programmes have contributed significantly less to improved knowledge status than foreseen. The report indicates that the establishment of the Species Database has been completed. This is believed to be a key player in making biodiversity data available to decision-makers at local, regional and central levels. This, however, requires active follow-up of the accumulation and government. Furthermore, the report indicates that introduced species pose a significant threat, including in protected areas. This was pointed out as early as 1995. The national audit concludes that introduced species have not been adequately put on the agenda. Perhaps the most striking thing about the report is that more protected areas are now being referred to as threatened areas, and the diversity of species in these areas continues to be lost. This is because, according to the National Audit Office, there is a serious imbalance between the allocations for new land protection and the management and care of existing protected areas. As of 1 January 2006, it was approximately 12.5 pst. by the mainland of Norway protected by the Law on Nature Conservation. So protection without associated protection plans is a threat to biodiversity and the protected areas. The National Audit Office points out in its report that the authorities still have limited knowledge of the progress made in identifying areas of high biodiversity value. The Committee expresses its concern that few measures have been taken in these areas and is concerned that protected areas are confusing rather than maintaining the value of the area in line with the protection objectives. It may appear that there has been a high level of protection performance without sufficient willingness to follow-up on administrative and budgetary appropriations. One of the most eye-catching aspects of the report is that central government believes that first it needs to focus on protecting — almost as much as possible — in order to focus later on the management and care of the protected areas. It will be interesting to hear the views of the Minister for the Environment on the Committee's position and the report of the National Audit Office, and what she intends to do to improve consistency between the objectives and follow-up of the protection plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e261	In addition to the rapporteur's good review of the matter we are now dealing with, I will take care to make some own considerations. So it's going to be up to 30 pst. the protection areas are currently under threat and there are shortcomings in the management of these areas. Lack of ability to translate high ambitions into concrete action is an important cause, and that is, of course, a phenomenon that we are constantly facing in many areas. However, for national parks, landscape areas and nature reserves, it is essential to follow up the high ambitions. Otherwise, it could have very serious consequences. The problem can simply be lost. The safeguarding of biodiversity and the management of protected areas pose major challenges to the authorities. The aim is to have a knowledge-based management system in place by 2007, with the National Programme for Monitoring and Monitoring as a carrier. The species database must function in such a way that it can become a central actor in order to make data on biodiversity available to decision-makers at local, regional and central level. I have noticed that the Environment Council has underlined that ensuring biodiversity is a priority task for the Government. I'm glad. The goal of halting the loss of diversity by 2010 also determines the Government. Nevertheless, there is concern when, more than five years after the adoption of the new management system, the Riksaudition has not yet clarified the types of actions and activities to be undertaken by the knowledge-based management system as a whole or the extent to which the measures should take place before the system can be expected to be completed. There is a clear need for better coordination of the work of the various departments in this field. A common understanding of the contribution of the national biodiversity monitoring and monitoring programme and the way in which work is to be carried out in the future appears to be essential for the success of the national biodiversity monitoring and monitoring programme. Prioritisation of tasks, justified perception of the most urgent measures and the order in which those measures should be implemented, require at least close contact across ministerial boundaries. The involvement of municipalities in identifying and identifying areas is of great value in ensuring biodiversity. Here again, the Riksrevision report shows a significant potential for improvement. It is hoped that the necessary session allocations from the Government to the municipalities can contribute to this work. Perhaps in the coming years it will be possible to assess whether it is appropriate to earmark funds for the work on biodiversity in municipalities. At least it has to be a change of pace, because it's urgent. There is reason for concern. The proportion of endangered protected areas has increased in recent years: from 18 pst. from 1995 to 30 p.m. in 2006. Although this is also due to the protection of new areas, this is a development that we must be able to turn around. It's dramatic when 82 pst. of the 579 protected areas reported in 2004, there is still an unmet need for action. The cross-section becomes complete when the lack of an overview of the costs of managing protected areas and the provision of funds for this appears to be one of the reasons for the situation. The National Audit Office's investigation has revealed serious weaknesses in our efforts to ensure biodiversity. It is particularly about governance and implementation. I assume that the government takes the findings seriously and deploys resources to ensure a desired development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e276	In this case, I think that the department's response is as interesting as the management report itself. I find, unlike the latter speeches from the government parties, no reason to doubt that the ministry is taking the work on biodiversity seriously. In fact, it says in the department's response, as shown on page 5 of the setting, that one does the most. I would like to quote from the Ministry's answer: ‘The Ministry has previously stated that it cannot agree with all the National Audit Office’s premises and assessments in the report. St.meld. [[2000-2001]] No 42 It is not entirely unknown parliamentary practice that big shots have ambitions that the Storting does not see itself able to fulfil in the first, second, third, fourth, fifth or sixth budgetary proceedings thereafter. If there is any indication that the objectives may be too wide-ranging, or if there is any indication of a lack of follow-up in appropriations, I shall leave it unanswered, but in assessing whether the Government has followed up the objectives of the Storting, it is quite important that the Riksrevision also focuses on the fact that the Storting has the annual resource allocation through budgetary management. That's also the Storing's view. It is quite clear in the Committee's position – that was something the rapporteur did not quote, so I have to include it – on page 8: ‘The Court of Auditors has, in its review, given enough decisive importance to the general opinions of the Grand Duchy, as referred to above, and on the basis of such wording, the audit considers that the departments have not followed up adequately in the annual budgets.’;» So the quotation says that the departments have not followed up enough. And then the committee says, ‘It shall not be entirely exhaustive, having regard to the fact that the level of appropriations is laid down in the annual budgetary procedure and in the budgetary priorities. It is the Stortinge that determines the level of appropriations and the level of ambition each year; not the departments.’ This, I think, is a reason to stress. So the Committee says that the collection of one research institution — many of them — of whether the ministry has done the right thing is hardly enough in an management report. The Committee also states: «In the opinion of the Committee, such interpretations require an administrative, international and political assessment.» I necessarily agree, that's part of the unanimous remark, but I think this might be worth noting for the Riksrevision. And if I'm going to be allowed to do a bold consideration in the end, it had to be that I think there are probably many other areas than this that had demanded earmarked appropriations for the municipalities – with reference to the last speaker's wish for designation. For it is always the case that, in a sector of activity, the allocation of appropriations to municipalities is sought when there are sectoral debates in the Grand Duchy. But when the municipal committee discusses matters relating to the municipalities, we hear the party after the party stand up and say that earring weakens municipal autonomy, and that it is desirable to get away from too much earring – something that the government has stressed with varying intensity and partly also got implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e311	The size has discussed the use and protection of biodiversity on several occasions. National strategies and action plans are designed to follow up national and international objectives set. Biological diversity is lost at a pace that can only be compared to the pace of global natural disasters and acute climate change. A common effort is required to reduce and stop losses. National audit studies show that, although measures have been implemented and followed up, much remains to be done in this area — both monitoring and monitoring biodiversity and management of protected areas. The National Audit Office and the Departments do have a somewhat different view of what comes out. The Ministry of the Environment is, among other things, do not agree with the opinions of the National Audit Office that the municipal monitoring and national programme has contributed significantly less to improved knowledge status than foreseen. It is alarming that the proportion of protected areas under threat is increasing. It is important and necessary to put in place measures to maintain the values of the protected areas. At the same time, we must also consider that there will often be conflicts of interest in the management of protected areas. It may sometimes be in the interests of the protection itself to compromise with other positive interests, such as: related to traffic and local industry. The National Audit Office then expresses that the annual appropriations have not been at the level estimated as necessary for the financing of the National Programme. To this end, there may be a great deal of reason to point out, as the representative Foss did so correctly, that it is the Storting that determines the level of appropriations each year, and thus also the level of ambition. Just after the Committee gave its opinion on this matter, the Art Database presented the new Red List. This shows that 3785 Norwegian species are at risk, and for 285 of them the situation is critical. This shows how important it is that work on the conservation of biodiversity is prioritised in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e326	The central party’s view on Document No 3:12 comes from the setting, where we are involved in broad plural comments. Let me still associate two comments of this document. First of all, it's a thought-provoking reading when the National Audit Office finds that protected areas are referred to as threatened areas. In 10 years, the extent of protection of the mainland area of Norway under the laws of nature protection has increased from 6 to 12.5 pst. While the Riksrevision in 1995 found 18 p.m. Of the protected areas, the number in 2006 has been reported to be 30 pst. It is not just thought-provoking, but it is alarming that what is produced as a protection, which should last for a variety of species, can in some cases be described more as a defect. There is extra awareness in the light of the conflicts of interest that are sometimes linked to proposals for new protection areas. There's a note here that I find reason to underline in such a context, that on the one hand it's important to be busy securing biodiversity, but at the same time it's important to be busy with good care. It is in the setting: ‘ The majority indicate that there will often be conflicts of interest related to the management of a protected area. In some respects, compromises with other good interests, such as traffic and local industry, may be in the personal interest of the protection.» There is a reminder for which this document is itself. When the Municipal Committee of Storting visited Oppland in the previous period, we met a spokesman who was proud that his municipality, Lom, had a large amount of protection area. He saw it as an opportunity to strengthen travel life, to stimulate new local industries, but he also showed very clearly the interaction that had existed between state and local government powers, fundamentalists and other interests, in order to achieve this. Good protection area management means good local management. It depends entirely on an interaction between national government powers and a lack of local interests. As specified, enough document no. 3:12 an important reminder into the work of the Government at any time, as well as a reminder of the debates that go both inside and outside this hall, of what is really a protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e344	The national audit of the authorities’ work on monitoring, monitoring and management of the protection area shows that we need a significant strengthening of classical nature protection. As the report states, we cannot allow the portion of protected areas that is threatened to increase. In 1995, the Directorate for Nature Management informed that 18 p.m. of the areas were threatened, while the part in 2006, as we have heard others say, is 30 pst. Although this is also due to the protection of new areas, there is some cause for concern, and shows that this work has been given too low priority. According to the UN, the global loss of biological deficiency is now so high and so extensive that it will eventually be able to undermine the basis for sustainable development. It's a frightening development. Biological deficiency has a value in itself, but it is also the basis of life for all human beings, including in Norway. It is important to have this as a background when assessing the measures taken to reduce the loss of biological deficiency. Norway has international obligations to protect biodiversity. As one of the richest countries in the world, we must be able to meet these obligations. When the Riksrevision believes that the work so far has been characterised by a lack of ability to translate high environmental ambitions into concrete action, we must not reduce ambitions but strengthen efforts. The left has noted that it is five years since the adoption of the new knowledge-based management system, but it is not yet clear what type of actions and activities the knowledge-based management system consists of. Moreover, the scope of the measures is not specified before the system can be said to be fully established. The knowledge-based administration as St.meld. No 42 for the 2000–2001 period, depended to a large extent on a national programme for the monitoring and monitoring of biological deficiency. The species database is now established and can – and should – become a central player to make data on biological deficiencies available to all decision makers at local, regional and central level. The Left supports the Committee, which expects further progress to be made in concrete action and activities, but will also point out that the Art Database needs adequate funding for the important work being done there. Among other things, due to the circumstances that have arisen here, the Left gave a warning in connection with the submission of the State budget for 2007, when it became clear that the Minister for the Environment had become a budget pair. It was essentially the classic nature protection that suffered. The government has also decided to postpone the issue of petroleum activity related to large seas in the light of a lack of knowledge of environmental values, ecosystems – and thus the biological deficiency. The left was therefore disappointed that the government chose to allow more money for the collection of seismics in the areas than what was allowed for marine monitoring of environmental values. The Minister for the Environment has said that she will return to Norway as an environmental nation. So far we can see that this investment has not come. The Left therefore calls on the Government to strengthen its budget significantly in the context of the forthcoming budgetary rounds. The Left would like to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e357	I am pleased that the Riksrevision with this report has put biodiversity on the agenda. Taking care of nature and ensuring biodiversity is a priority task for this government. We aim to stop the loss of biodiversity by 2010. In this work, the knowledge base is very important. That is also why, in this year's budget, we have strengthened the monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity by over 9 million. kr. We are now well in the process of planning further work by 2010. Then, of course, we will learn from the process we have had. Here the Riksrevision report will be very useful, and of course I agree with the Committee that it is necessary to follow up the shortcomings raised by the Riksrevision. At the same time, I would like to point out that despite the shortcomings identified, the national monitoring and monitoring programme has been an innovative work between a number of departments. This has been important for precisely coordinating work on biodiversity. All sectors must join and pull the load to stop the loss of biodiversity. However, we still have a challenge in creating a common understanding of the contribution of the national programme and, as the Committee also points out, it is necessary to take measures to ensure a common understanding and better coordination of activities. I also want to refer to the work done by the Art Database in this field. Here we are building a solid knowledge base, and the Art Database can be an important supplier of important decisions. One example of this is the Norwegian Red List of Endangered Species, which was presented now before Christmas, and which will affect the decisions we are making in the future. The criticism in the report is also that we have not taken sufficient care of our areas of protection, what is called management and care. We are now working to fix this. I would like to mention that a working group has recently presented a report on the further work on sustainable use, management and care of protected areas. This working group has pointed out that a framework for future developments in the protection areas needs to be established and a number of measures need to be taken to ensure that the protection values are not reduced or destroyed. This working group emphasises the need to strengthen significantly the management of protected areas if the protection areas of Norway are to be more widely used for the development of economic activity and for the creation of value added. The management of the protection areas needs to be given more resources in order to be able to follow up the obligations of a safeguard decision. We also have an assessment of a proposal for an own value creation programme for natural areas. I have greatly appreciated this working group's report, and it provides a good basis for returning to the Stortinget on a separate matter on this important topic, as requested by the Committee on Energy and the Environment in the budget position last autumn. So I also want to include the report's proposals in the work on the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e376	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e379	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has clear objectives in relation to biodiversity. Many species are threatened, and the situation is serious. This government will do something about it, and we will present an action plan for the sustainable use and care of national parks and other protected areas. The Government Declaration states that management plans are to be drawn up as soon as possible after the adoption of a safeguard decision, in order to clarify the purpose of the protection and the conditions to be fulfilled. This is particularly the case for national parks. Work started on developing national parks as a local community resource and for local value creation will continue. We will return to the competence of the municipalities in the field of nature and environmental protection, and believe that this will contribute to a new and offensive protection policy in our country. The National Audit Office's report and evaluation have indicated that we do not properly manage and understand what we have already protected. This is worrying, and it is a strong reminder that the preservation of biodiversity is more than the act of expediency of protection decisions. Care and sustainable management of what is protected is at least equally important. We need to strengthen the knowledge-based part of administration. I am becoming more and more convinced that a good interaction with the local population is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve our objectives of conservation of biodiversity and if we are to achieve our international commitments. We don't get results by three things over people's heads! We have several challenges, and then I think of the huge regrowth we experience all over the country because of the lack of pasturage and beating. This greening is also a threat in our two World Heritage Sites – Vega on Helgeland and Geiranger and Nærøyfjord – which are cultural landscapes. Here, it needs funds to be able to operate an active care unit. If the heritage is to be managed for the benefit of our descendants, the activity needs to be re-created and maintained. This work is being measured at international level already in 2011/2012, as these two sites are to be evaluated. Norway has ratified the Landscape Convention of 2000. It entered into force on 1 March 2004. Its aim is to ensure the sustainable development of the cultural landscape and that the population has to participate and participate in the good management of its values. We have a job to do through the annual budgets, especially with regard to the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e395	Let me start by pointing to the one positive point that the National Audit Office's report points out, namely that the establishment of the Art Database could – if it is properly followed up by us and the Government – contribute to the future functioning of knowledge-based management. Otherwise, I ask myself, ‘Slaughter’ is a term to be used from the Spokesman’s Chair, but the rest of the National Audit Office’s report must well be described as the slaughter of the Government’s protection policy. And in so far as, through its comments, the Committee has also slaughtered the work of the Stortinge in terms of protection policy. The Progress Party has pointed out for several periods that passive land protection itself is not a good environmental policy instrument and that resources need to be focused more on active management and species protection. Then there are two issues in the government's response that are particularly alarming. One was the representative Hagen, who said that the Government of the Ministry of the Environment said that ‘management and care of already protected areas will be prioritised at a later stage’. This is what the Ministry of the Environment says after reading the National Audit Office's report, and it is alarming. Similarly, in reply letters to the Riksrevision, the Ministry states that the comments made by the Stortinget should not be weighted as steering signals. Now I am an opposition politician, and that the minority's remarks are not given weight, I understand so far, but that also unanimous committee comments should not be given weight by the Government, surprise me. Then I find that I have wasted many evening hours on Stortinget with work that is still not followed up. The major problem in this matter is that species disappear, including from protected areas. Knowledge-based management, as adopted five years ago, is far from being properly implemented. Passive land protection very often leads to conflicts between landowners and local politicians on the one hand and the Government on the other. The size has repeatedly indicated that the level of conflict in such cases needs to be reduced. At the same time, when landowners who lose administrative rights for their own reasons are told that the diversity of species in the area continues to disappear – and, most likely, not better protected – I think that the level of conflict will increase. I would just like to point out once again that the Progress Party has repeatedly called for a break in the protection work, rather than looking at the management and economic and biological consequences of the protection policy pursued by the Government. I'll make it very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e412	First, I have to be allowed to say that I hope we also have other opportunities to discuss the importance of the diversity of species in the world and the threats it faces, than when we have a report from the National Audit Office on the table. The reason why I'm saying that is that after the man-made climate change we're facing, it's enough that our species diversity disappears at a rate that might be a hundred times higher than that of natural development, one of the major environmental challenges of our time. It's actually so that life's library is on fire. Many species disappear, and a species disappears, it disappears forever. That is why we have had an active position internationally from Norway, among others. During the Johannesburg Summit, to stop the loss of biodiversity globally and also in Norway. I can subscribe to many of the assessments that the Minister for the Environment made in his speech, relating to the challenges we face. One way to deal with loss of biodiversity in Norway is to take care of areas and ensure them against unnecessary interventions. If they are endangered, they can be secured against new roadways in the area. It is also possible to ensure that high-voltage lines are not introduced into threatened areas. This is done through the traditional land protection policy, so as to preserve the nature of future generations. When the national parking area in Norway has increased by 60 pst in recent years, no one can come and tell me that it is not an important part of the strategy for Norway to also achieve its international commitments in this area. In that case, it is a misunderstanding. What the Riksrevision does is not to slaughter the protection policy that Norway has pursued. Other countries, including The United States has come at least as far as Norway is concerned to ensure non-interventional areas. But what the Riksrevision points out is that when the protected area increases, there is also a need to increase the resources of care. I fully agree with the Riks revision. I have also noticed that a joint committee says that it is the Storting that formulates the objectives you have, and that it is the Stortinge that each year adopts a budget that is the sum of state expenditure Norway can bear, so that we can also have a responsible national policy in the future. I think it's worth noting what the committee says: ‘The size shall determine the level of appropriations and the level of ambition each year; not the departments.’ Several of those who have spoken have participated in the annual budgetary agreements. I have noticed that even those who have given less money to this area, who have also signed up in the debate and are not satisfied that you are not spending more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e430	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1697]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e438	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e446	During the debate, Mr. Carl I. Hagen, Member of the Presidency, presented a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Section 13(b) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting is replaced by the following: In addition to the committees referred to in Section 10, a Security Committee is also appointed. The role of the Security Committee is to discuss with the Government important issues relating to the country’s internal security and anti-terrorism work, contingency plans, as well as operational security measures vis-à-vis departments, Directorates, departments, institutions and officials. Such discussion should take place before important decisions are taken. The Security Committee shall follow the measures taken in the area of internal security and anti-terrorism under the terms of the mandates and appropriations granted, and shall monitor the exercise of the powers of the Government in this area.The Security Committee shall consist of the President of the United Kingdom as Vice-President and Vice-President of the United Kingdom, the group leaders of the parties with deputy officers, as well as the chairmen of the Judicial and Defence Committee.The Leader shall convene the Committee if he deems it necessary, or when requested by the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice or one third of the members of the Committee.The negotiations within the Security Committee shall be kept secret, unless otherwise specified. The same shall apply to joint meetings of this Committee with other committees. The call for committee meetings shall also be secret.The Security Committee may also meet officials to provide information and answer questions, together with members of the Government.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Presidency will be rejected. The Presidency had recommended: Document No 8:102 [[2005-2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11.ana.ud1212e563	This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
