ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e38	The representative Vera Lightcloth, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e46	On behalf of Jan Tore Sanner, Lars Sponheim and myself, I am delighted to propose a conditional exemption from the inheritance tax for a generation change in family eight companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e51	The representative, Mr Borghild Tenden, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e54	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande, Odd Einar Dørum and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on measures to combat fraud and fraud and organised crime in the taxi industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e73	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e80	Let me first thank the Council of State for the presentation of development policy. It's always exciting to hear his speeches, with sharp political points, good tip formulations and anecdotes and historical poems that put perspective on things. There's actually a rare diet in Stortinget. Few are equally good at raising interest in development issues – and at provoking debate. The presentation in June 2007 was no exception; it even prompted the Stortinge to decide that a separate statement should be made. It has been a bit demanding, because the presentation's very verbal and partly rhetorical form does not entirely match the demands of the committee settings for nuance in analyses and precision in policy design. As rapporteur of the case, I would first like to say that there is a reason to cross the line that so many of the main issues in development policy have been put to a unanimous vote. All lots are behind the Committee's setting. In addition, the Progress Party has submitted its own specific comments. Such agreement has been possible only because everyone has reason to establish some important principles and priorities on which the parties commit themselves. As a result, the setting up has become a common, committed basis for further work on development policy during this period. The fact that the parties have set aside their own markings and given common instructions does not make the position less politically interesting, but gives it on the contrary greater political weight. The attitude is marked by the fact that a few years have passed since the Foreign Affairs Committee issued the Innst. S. No 93 for 2004-2005 on development policy, based on the Cooperative Government’s call for joint action against poverty. All the supporting principles of that suspension are now confirmed by the current Foreign Affairs Committee. That obligates us all. The international debate on development policy is currently strongly influenced by the mid-term implementation of the UN Millennium Goals on poverty reduction and development. In the view of the Committee, it is particularly important to maintain the commitments of the developed countries in the run-up to 2015. Efforts must be both well-organised and increased sufficiently to achieve the objectives. We've seen so many times that politicians in many countries have probably made their promises, but in the next turn, the promises are forgotten and the focus is turned on your television cameras or other cameras at all times. It's a reminder we're all going to receive. If we are to be able to halve the world's poverty and hunger and more than half the child mortality rate by 2015, then, as politically responsible, we need to focus on poverty and follow up the promises in practice – every year, every month, every day. Now we're going to do that. Here the committee is quite clear. The Committee therefore asks that the status of the work on the Millennium Goals and the contribution of Norway to their achievement become a central theme of the notified EEA Gazette. The first of the UN's Millennium Goals is the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger. Before 2015, the proportion of the population who make less than one dollar a day should be halved and the proportion who suffer from hunger should also be halved. The poverty focus will be strongly underlined in the Committee's setting, for example. by concentration in Africa, which holds most of the world's poorest countries. The Committee notes that Norway should not weaken the concentration of eastern and southern Africa that has been developed into Norwegian development policy for a long time. And the Committee calls for geographical concentration to be included as a theme in the forthcoming communication on development policy. In the fight against hunger, the Committee promises agricultural aid and ‘provides that although the Action Plan for Agricultural Development was not mentioned in the statement, it is followed up in practice as provided by the Stortinget’. We have to make sure of that together. UN Millennium Goal No. 2 is to ensure primary education for all by 2015, while the Millennium Goal No. 3 focuses in particular on gender equality, including access to education. The Norwegian development debate raised doubts as to whether education is now being given equal priority. Now an overall committee determines the following: ‘The Committee would stress that the priority of Norwegian education assistance should also be maintained, as provided for in the St.meld. No 35 and Innst. [[2003-2004]] S. No 93 [[2004-2005]] The Committee asks the Government to make concrete proposals on how Norway can contribute to stronger efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. This should be noted by both the Red Children and other educational stakeholders. UN Millennium Goal No. 4, 5 and 6 are linked to reducing mortality among young children under five years of age and among women born and to stopping the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria and other fatal diseases. These three health-related thousand-year targets have been highlighted by the Government in an international campaign that the Prime Minister is leading internationally and that has given great attention to the international arena. That's good. It is supported by the Committee. The priority of assistance to the health sector and, in particular, vaccines must be strengthened, not weakened. UN Millennium Goal No. 7 is environmental sustainability. It is concrete to halve the proportion of the population who do not have access to clean water. Water was not specifically mentioned in the presentation, but the Committee assumes that Norwegian assistance to improve people’s access to clean water and good sanitation should be strengthened in accordance with the environmental action plan presented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs just one year ago. The Committee also points to the United Nations objective of developing a global partnership for development. It requires an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading and financial system that takes care of the needs of LDCs. Their needs need to be met by market access and debt relief reforms. When the Foreign Affairs Committee has so systematically stressed that the follow-up to the UN's Millennium Goals will be important governance targets for the period up to 2015, it is because we see it as a national commitment. This is at the same time a setting where the quality of development cooperation is the focus. The Committee stresses the importance of ‘binding Norwegian aid’. It has been demonstrated that if aid is tied to supplies of the donor country’s goods, services and technology, it will on average cost the purchases and lead to a value loss of 15-30 pst. The OECD Development Committee has long required decoupling, followed by Norway. In recent years, the European Commission has also committed itself strongly to decoupling. The Committee points out that Norway’s choice of bets, for example: in the field of energy, must be adapted to individual developing countries’ assumptions and needs, not the technology that Norwegian producers can offer. The role of civil society is also highlighted. It is important to maintain the specific nature and independence of voluntary organisations vis-à-vis the authorities. A closer assessment of the balance between political governance and the independence of organisations in development cooperation is justified. For me, as the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, it has been an important, overall objective to ensure broad anchoring of these key guidelines, including during the major period of time we are now in. In the setting, the lot has a different view of what is most important, so it will always be. For the Christian People's Party, it is especially gratifying that the priority of increased aid for education has become so clear. It is also essential that we now make a clear commitment to the implementation of the Action Plan for Agricultural Development. It is important both for food safety and for job creation through industrial processing of agricultural products. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to say that this is the collective and good leadership of Norwegian development policy, but they are demanding. I look forward to the Council of State on behalf of the Government confirming its willingness to follow this up. The storing may take its share of responsibility. I would like to challenge civil society and the media to be sentinels to make sure that both the magnificence and government follow up these commitments. Let me conclude by saying that I believe that we who represent the generation that now manages Norwegian society, in the broad sense, have a historical opportunity and a historical responsibility. The two main ethical challenges facing the world are linked to man-made climate change and to extreme poverty. We have a scientific basis for saying that we can solve both of these two challenges in our lifetime, if we do the right steps. We are now discussing poverty, but it is closely linked to the climate challenge. I hope that when our children and grandchildren look back at the efforts of this generation, they will say: Yes, they understood that they had the opportunity, they seized the opportunity, they did what stood in their power, and they changed the reality through their efforts. Nothing less is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e142	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e145	As the representative Højbrätten was in the room, we agree very much in this setting. In parts of the aid debate, the focus is on the large Norwegian aid industry, and some claim that a reason for maintaining the aid is to keep all these organisations and jobs going. We have a special note saying that the objective must be a development in which ‘developing countries will be able to cope without assistance in the future’. I just want a confirmation from the representative Højbråten that this is of course a goal shared by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e154	It is obvious that when a judge looks far enough ahead, the vision is a fair world, a world that has a trading system that takes more account of the interests of the poor part of the world, a world that has brought extreme poverty out of history. In such a world, assistance in the sense that we know today will hopefully be superfluous.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e159	Let me first stress how important it is that there is a great deal of consensus on development policy. I must say that I was somewhat surprised at the statements made by the President-in-Office in Dagbladet that the Committee would keep the Council of State in mind. I assume he doesn't mean it anymore. But I have a question as a result of the emphasis that Højbråten had on fair trade structures, to eradicate poverty also has to do with power structures in the international community. With a change of government, Norway has taken a greater stand for developing countries in terms of both trade regimes and the World Bank’s view, which has had major demands for privatisation. It now turns out, among other things. in Afghanistan. So my question is, does the Høybråt mean that this has been a change for the better?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e166	I allow myself to be ‘mildly amazed’ over the mild wonder. That's how the biggest task is to keep government councils in check. And that a case rapporteur, who has a unanimous committee position – largely – in his back, emphasises that here the Stortinget has agreed on some important guidelines that we want the Council of State to remain despicable in relation to the follow-up of, should not surprise anyone, nor lead to any incitement. I therefore hope, to the extent that it has happened, that one has been given consideration and realize that this is actually part of the Storting's function towards the Government. When it comes to the issue of fair trade, I would say that the Christian People's Party fully supports the efforts that this government, like previous governments, has had to make. We even took the initiative, and got a majority for, lower customs barriers compared to some of the poorest countries. It has been followed up by the Government of the State Budget. We want to move on that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e173	Let me first underline the importance of there being broad agreement on assistance, and also that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have always been very much in agreement on aid policy. It is also true that in the setting we have stressed the need for education. However, it could almost be seen from the representative's posts that this is no longer done, and I believe that this is directly wrong. I want to ask if it's not that we actually spend more under the current government in aid money for education than what was done under the previous government. Education is, of course, integrated into the four main areas of action that the Council of State has chiseled out, and we are also providing some budget support that also goes to education, and education is also an important part of what we are channelling through the UN systems and, for example, through the United Nations systems. UNICEF.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e180	Let me confirm the historic community that Marit Nybakk highlights in terms of aid policy. I think it has been very important for the development of Norwegian development policy and the fact that we have been able to increase aid so strongly in recent years in a politically anchored way. The increase that has been year after year, even under this government, makes it possible for more money to be allocated to most of the aid budget, by the increase we agree on – now the Christian People's Party wants to go further than the Government for next year, but leave it in this context. As far as education is concerned, concerns have been raised in the aid environment, as a result of the government’s failure to flag education high among the issues governing the priority of assistance. I believe that this setting explains that this is not the case. To the extent that there has been an uncertainty, there is no uncertainty on the basis of the political governance for which the Storting has the primary responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e187	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e191	"The most dangerous day in your life is the very first," said Jens Stoltenberg to Dagbladet on 27 September this year. The background to the opinion was the Norwegian contribution of 1 billion dollars distributed over 10 years to achieve the thousand-year targets on reducing child mortality through vaccination and to reduce mortality among pregnant women. In some areas of southern Africa, one in ten women die in the shrieks. Think about it a little bit! The figures in Norway are one of 3000. We're going to let that sink in. It is not always easy to pursue development policies. In a country like Angola, which the Foreign Affairs Committee visited now in the autumn, the Angolan state receives about NOK 5 billion in tax revenue from Statoil alone. But in the capital city of Luanda, there is one of the world's worst birthplaces — lack of equipment, miserable sanitary conditions and lack of hygiene, where a birth is a risk to both mother and child. It updates what the Minister for Development said in his previous statement, that aid and humanitarian aid are necessary, but that policies are actually more important. I would also like to refer to the statement that we are dealing with today's vote, to which the Council of State underlines: ‘The starting point of this government is power structures and not charity’. We must work in parallel with targeted and concrete assistance, with democracy development, good governance and distribution policies, because the internal distribution and development policy in each country is also important in order to reduce poverty and ensure a decent life for all parts of the population. Therefore, I welcome the agreement between Angola and Norway on the Oil for Development programme, in order to contribute to the benefit of the entire population of Angola's huge oil revenues and to the return to schools, health care and well-being. The UN’s Millennium Goals were signed by the world’s Heads of State seven years ago, among others. by Jens Stoltenberg. Eight development objectives were to be achieved by 2015. Poverty in the world was to be halved. Child mortality should be reduced by two-thirds. Mortality among women who give birth should be reduced by three-quarters. Int. S. No 93 for 2004-2005, reference was made to the UN’s Millennium Goals as the central basis for international mobilisation for a common fight against poverty. And – as it stands today – although these objectives do not in themselves fit the whole of development policy, they are crucial for mobilising both donor countries and developing countries to a joint take-up by 2015. Norway has taken on a very special responsibility for the thousand-year targets of child mortality and molestation. Here a proper and targeted work is done from the Norwegian side. Among other things, the GAVI vaccine programme: saved the lives of 2.3 million children so far. It's focused, it's focused! The Committee has requested that, when we are about to be halfway through the implementation period, the status of the Millennium Goals should be discussed in the announced Communication on Development Policy. So I would like to add that the background for this, of course, as the newspaper said, is not to criticise the Minister of Development – I had almost said, for what? The reason is simply that the Committee has had a meeting with UNDP, the United Nations Development Programme, which asked for a proper debate in the United Kingdom on the Millennium Goals. They have also done so in Denmark. We considered putting in an interpellation, but chose to ask for this to be included in the Storing Communication, otherwise in consultation with political management in the ministry. I am pleased that the Government in the budget proposal is no longer finding a distinction between the main cooperation countries and the co-operation countries. When main cooperation countries such as Zambia have significantly less cooperation with Norway than for example. Sudan and Afghanistan, are overdue to do something with these terms. However, there is probably a need to discuss both concepts and countries in the Single European Act so that the Stortinget is also presented with possible changes to co-operation countries. Then I'll come back to our visit to Angola. Some of the highlights were actually the meeting with microcredit companies or institutions, women and men who have established their own companies, supported among others. by the United Nations and Norwegian Public Aid. Formalising the design sector and creating a basis for income and work is one of the most important and targeted things we can do to solve poverty problems and to ensure that they can manage on their own. We were also in Namibia. In Namibia, we were really impressed by how the young state had established a fisheries management regime almost at the level of Norwegian – with Norwegian competence. Aid isn't always the big money. Equally important is the transfer of knowledge and structures to ensure control of their own natural resources and to contribute to broad development. Let me then underline what the Council of State said in the statement on the relationship between poverty and security. Security is a prerequisite for development, but without development we also have no certainty. Norway has taken a leading role in Afghanistan in terms of security and development and has now called for a more guided coordination of civil efforts by a UN Special Representative. And years ago, Norway made Afghanistan a cooperation country for Norwegian development assistance. Let me add that it is also important to strengthen the legitimacy of the regime in developing the country, and that there must also be something that we are aware of in our assistance to Afghanistan. The combination of humanitarian aid, long-term development assistance and peacekeeping or stabilising forces can also be a model for Darfur – that we focus our efforts on a broad scale in some conflict areas to ensure peace and stability, but also to remove poverty and contribute to development. In Africa, in particular, Norway has combined conflict prevention and conflict resolution with development-oriented measures. When Norway took office in the UN Security Council on 1 January 2001, otherwise with Thorbjørn Jagland as Minister for Foreign Affairs, Africa and conflict-building were two priority areas. I would like to mention the peace agreement between North and South Sudan, where Hilde Frafjord Johnson, in particular, did an impressive job. It is not easy to be a girl in negotiations in Sudan, but it went very well! Let me then underline the Government's new Africa strategy. It is important that Norway needs to renew African policies that can see foreign and development policies in the context. Africa’s challenges need to be solved with considerable effort, both from Africa itself and from the international community. The fact that it is both Africa's and our responsibility must also guide our development policy. Finally, we have a special responsibility, which was also in the hands of the case-rapporteur, and on which the Council of State spent a great deal of time in its presentation, helping to combat the consequences of climate change. Therefore, the environment and climate are being raised to the top in development policy. In this respect, it is important to step up efforts in the years to come. It is also about taking care of biodiversity, ensuring the right to clean water and improving sanitary conditions. Maybe the right to water should be a human right? The Environmental Development Cooperation Action Plan highlights the main priority of the conservation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources. Finally, it is important that we do our utmost to achieve the international objective of a significant reduction in biodiversity loss by 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e236	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e239	The fight against corruption is essential if people are to be brought out of poverty. Equally important, or missing equally important, is the fight for democracy and human rights. When aid is provided directly in budget support, our influence over what the money is doing is limited, but it increases the influence of the recipient country. Is the representative of Nybakk correct that Norway is providing substantial budget support to a country such as Uganda, where corruption is significant, and where the Museveni regime spends part of the money, among others. from Norway to increase its own and its own party's influence and to undermine an already strongly deficient democracy? Or does the representative Nybakk, like the Right, think that budget support should be limited to countries with a functioning democracy or improved democratic conditions with at least two political parties, transparency of administration and good instruments and achievements in the fight against corruption?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e246	Let me first underline that safeguarding human rights is an important part of Norwegian foreign policy, and that we have critical dialogues with very many countries. I can mention Iran and China, but that also applies to countries in Africa. Working for good governance and democratic development is also important in our main co-operation countries, or co-operation countries, if the representative wants to. As far as budget support is concerned, I think it is most important that we are sure that the aid given to individual countries, whether Uganda or Mozambique, is being ploughed into development, into welfare, and that it is the development policy of the country that is crucial for whether or not to provide budgetary support. But then we always have to follow very closely and be critical, so that we constantly see what the budget support is used for – simply because budget support is one of the most demanding things we do, because control here is more important than much else we provide assistance to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e253	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e256	In this setting, there is broad, not to say total, agreement on where we want, and what are the objectives of development policy. It is relatively obvious, but nevertheless I find it very reassuring. We still want different views about the use of instruments, but we want the same thing. We should not underestimate this consensus. It gives strength to Norway as an actor. It gives hope to the poor part of the world. But despite broad agreement on objectives, there is a need for a continuous debate on how to get there. We must dare to ask questions about all adopted truths, and we must seek new knowledge in order to make policy effective. I'm not going to spend time repeating common comments, nor special comments, they're there for everyone to see. Instead, I want to talk more about what we need and what we can do to achieve all the good and important goals. We are pleased that the Solheim Council is very active in this debate. We are delighted to think again. So far, we must be allowed to say that the concrete results of the innovation have been relatively modest, but it is still time. The poverty challenge requires that we are daring, that we aim high, and that we dare to take action that can reverse the negative spiral, not least for the poorest. Before Christmas we are going to have a budget debate that will also deal a lot with development policy. We are sketching in our alternative state budget some grips that can give a new direction and a new hope. A recognition is that many developing countries have a desperate need for business, and they need an alternative to an aid-dominated public sector. We propose to start work by setting up a new environmental and development fund for use in MUL countries to establish a private sector and to bring energy to the population in a sustainable way to enable them to apply new environmentally friendly technologies in e.g. agriculture. This is one of the things we imagine with a fund directed exclusively at the poorest. Such a fund must have a mandate outside existing funds, it must think creatively and create a new and private sector where it almost does not exist. It has to try to solve e.g. energy and water issues in ways that are sustainable locally and globally. We allow ourselves to propose a fund of 25 billion kroner – more than the entire Norwegian aid budget. Effectively implemented, we think the result of such a fund could make a difference. Yes, there are problems with betting in many MUL countries. Yes, it is not easy to find business to invest in. Yes, there is also often a lack of a culture that is business friendly. These are not problems that are flawed. But then let's try to create something. Let's try to let other communities work out of poverty – as Norway did. Let's also see the potential of these countries, let's not just make them victims and clients. If we are to do something about the challenges, we must also challenge our own prejudices and attitudes. To date, few have seen the opportunities to invest in many such countries. We have to think new, we have to think big, and use a very small proportion of our oil fortune to participate in an adventure. Let's bring Norwegian business to this adventure, let's use our environmental expertise, and let's show, for example. Africans, there are alternative ways of investing in relation to the Chinese. We can be an example in terms of work environment, environment, transparency and Norwegian values. Let's not be ashamed of the values of broad layers of our business. In addition, we have a Minister for the Environment and Development – let's give him a tool that can make a difference. In the rest of my post, I want to address two challenges that we need to find answers to whether we're going to succeed with the Millennium Goals. The first is the filter that exists between donors and recipients. In non-profit-making cases, donors without significant loss of efficiency hit their recipients in a good way. At the other end of the scale, we find donors who are precious in action, who have agendas, ideological, religious or other, that have a negative effect on the society they are going to operate in, or we have those who have become part of the culture of corruption, or who are simply so influenced by old notions that they do more harm than good. We must also dry up to address this problem. We need to seek channels for assistance that deliver the goods in the best possible way. Norwegian non-governmental organisations are being duly examined and reviewed to ensure that they are good enough. This is good, because with large government grants, we have to expect money to be properly managed. Norad is analysing the impact of its own actions. There are positive things happening. But what about the assistance and relief we provide through other channels? Is the filter between many of the UN organisations or the World Bank and the recipients airy enough? Or is it so close that the effect of the billions we put in doesn't seem? These questions must be asked, but they must also be answered. If they are not answered well enough, it is not useful with an overall strategy that the UN is good, so we should use them. It's getting too simple. During budgetary consultation, one of the hearing bodies said that the UN is good at the normative work, but is less good at the operational. Well said. Provided that this is true, we must change the quality of the UN's operational work, or we must choose other channels for our assistance. The last challenge I want to address is even more fundamental and absolutely crucial for our success. That's what we do with all the leaders who don't have their own people's welfare in mind, all the villains who think more about filling their own bank accounts than meeting the UN's thousand-year targets, the despots who not only steal the people's money, but also kill and abuse their own people. Without doing anything about this, there's little use for the other. It just becomes patches on a wound where there is a need for extensive surgery, or even amputation. Paul Collier addresses this problem in his book The Bottom Billion. He argues that in some cases we need to consider going as far as physically removing despots in order to lay the foundation for better governance. This is a difficult discussion. It has many aspects. We must also take that debate. And if we're serious about the thousand-year targets being equally important to everyone, regardless of their place of residence, we can't escape debates on regime change. The weapon intervention is, and must always be, the last option. But there may also be other ways to work to achieve a desired development. With China, often as a big brother, the bandits sit safely in their palaces. What alternative can we offer the population? We need such a debate in Norway, and we need it in the United Nations. We want to raise such questions, annoy us with Africa's'mugabes', but it can't stop us. One area where I think this seems good is the whole debt issue, and the fact that these despots have had access to credit from financial institutions and organisations that might just want the best. If we based on a assumption that that debt will not necessarily be repaid, if it is not approved by a elected parliament, then we could start by following up what the Right Representative raised – granting state aid to regimes that are obviously unfortunately failing in terms of basic attitudes to both human rights, corruption and good governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e287	Let me first say that I think it is important that the Progress Party participates in the whole unanimous setting. Then I was very in doubt as to which donors the representative described in very negative order. If there are UN organisations, I almost find it a pity that the representative Höglund was not in Mozambique and saw how the UN organisations were driving HIV/AIDS clinics, how they were operating high school in the same way, how they got proper results from the assistance, which was otherwise funded by Norwegian funds. The Progress Party cut half of the aid budget for the current year. Now I understand that they're going to spend 25 billion dollars of the Pension Fund on a fund to invest in business in MUL countries. But 25 billion DKK for LDCs in food aid, is it realistic at all? NORFUND has been able to use 25 pst. of its resources in MUL countries and is now oriented towards middle-income countries. Is it not better to support microcredit, to look at the Aid for Trade programme, at a completely different level?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e296	There were several ratios here. But in order to address this with the UN organisations: what we say first of all is that we have to measure the impact of the work they do, as we evaluate Norwegian organisations in this area. We need an evaluation, not equal, but we need an evaluation. There is a lot of good work done in the United Nations, of course it does. What is it realistic to do? I pointed in my post to problems. But we also have to think new, dry to think boldly and find ways to make progress. We are well aware that NORFUND has been struggling to find out the partners they can get with. However, it does not mean – not least with the environmental challenges we face – that it is not important to try to achieve anything. Here, one solution can be – as we have done with the oil fund – to see if we can manage this beyond the borders of the country. There may be other environments that have more competence in investing out than what we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e303	I have to say I ate my ears when I heard the representative, Höglund, talk about amputation and surgery becoming a major part of Norwegian aid policy. It's a good thing that we want more attention to be paid to health, but it's physical removal of despots. It might be interesting to get the representative Höglund to reflect a little on how it might be implemented in practice. The goal of bringing down regimes that rule with their people, violate human rights and abuse their power, we are in complete agreement. We're also very much in this setting. I would like to pay tribute to the Advancement Party for that. At the same time, I must say that from good principles to practical action, it is still a good way. We have received the evaluation, the mid-term report, in the case of the Millennium Goals, which shows that we are well off to achieve what Norway is obliged to do. Does the Progress Party, in view of the fact that the aid budget will be halved, believe that it is indeed national obligations for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e310	It is a national obligation for Norway to participate and meet the Millennium Goals. We agree on that. When more people here are saying halving -- we're going to get back to it in the budget debate -- there's a very rough calculation of this. It's not that much. But that means that we believe in another device of development policy. We have explained this very well in this room and in our comments continuously. We believe in other means than assistance. But that doesn't mean we don't want the same thing. We want results that we unfortunately do not see with today's aid policy, which we do not see by just spending more money. We think there's got to be other things, and then we have to think about something new. We think that assistance is actually often part of the problem when it's given in a crazy way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e319	I am pleased that the representative, Mr Höglund, so clearly indicates that there is agreement on objectives in this Chamber, but that there may be some disagreement about instruments. The representative talked about client-oriented assistance. I think that in the historical context we can agree on such a definition of a part of what we've done. But it was a blunder of that thinking, I realized, that there is also client-driven assistance today. My question is: Have I understood this correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e326	My impression is that how we — and not just Norway — look at the poorest countries in particular, they are victims, they need us, they don't have much to go with, and they depend entirely on us giving money or help in other ways. What I tried to illustrate was looking at the possibilities that these countries can also build up and give something back in the form of an investment, given that there can be a return in the long term. Although it may be far ahead, although we know it is risky, we must take advantage of the opportunities that can also lie in the country. We know that there is often a part, at least a small part, of the people who have education, who have a willingness to bet. Then we have to use it, dry to do it and not just think about aid and traditional instruments in order to change the situation in these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e331	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e334	This is a unanimous attitude, which largely reminds the Minister of the main objectives of Norwegian aid policy and Norwegian development policy. When a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee feels the need to do so, it is enough because, in its presentation, the Minister for Development did not give the impression of having taken on board what an almost unanimous increase a few years ago said about what the main priorities were. So you can think that it was because you were most concerned about telling about what was new, what was changed, and the new policy areas, or it could be an expression of actually deprioritising something that Storting has said before has been important. I think it is very timely of the broad majority of the Grand Duchy to remind the Minister of Development of this. I understand that the Government is changing priorities in relation to both what the Great Britain has previously adopted through the examination of the Great Britain's Communication on Development Policy, and that the Great Britain has also expressed through repeated budgetary discussions during this period, namely that the fight against poverty and the implementation of the Millennium Goals are the goal of development policy in Norway. It's the long-term goals that must be governing what we're doing. Then the presentation was anecdote. That's funny, but that doesn't mean the anecdotes are right. I want to say that they can be interpreted in many different ways. I noticed that the Council of State, among others. Zambia and Kenneth Kaunda used to measure that the major problem in Zambia was copper, and that was the cause of Zambia’s problem. No, it was bad politics that was the problem in Zambia. I was in Zambia in 1992, when Kenneth Kaunda had lost power. At that time, farmers in Zambia traveled with their crop to Congo-Brazzaville and sold it for five times as much as they got in Zambia, which was a significantly richer country. Why? It was because one party state and African socialism had made sure that the farmers were paid so little that they simply didn't make money to grow for sale on their own market. Then it's bad politics, and it's home country politicians who create the problem, not copper in themselves. So we can say that it might be that they need to learn from us. No, they need what we have. We have democracy, we have multi-party systems, we have Cheques and Balances, we have the rule of law, and we have human rights, which makes bad politicians lose power. There has been the shortage in a lot of African countries. The worst is that many of our main aid countries in the 1970s and 1980s are among them, where Norway in particular stood on the left and applauded a policy that they would never implement in Norway. Norwegian farmers would never have accepted that the centre party had not paid them for their production. But there is a lot of Norwegian development aid by supporting under regimes where African socialism was in Africa, which has made it impossible to develop at the bottom. Using the usual market economy mechanisms was not done because you thought you were going to be an experiment for something else. This is why one of the main problems in many countries is and has been bad policy. There is one way to do something about it, and it is consistent — implemented — to support under multi-party systems, democracy, the Cheques and Balances, because it is the only thing that benefits in the long run. It's actually better than we think that with surgical attacks we should remove dictators in different ways. It will be difficult and, most of the time, a pleasure for most countries that are trying to do so. So it's good to show action. But the Minister for Development must not forget that the leadership of the Storting through democratic decisions in this Chamber actually applies outside this Chamber. When we have said that we must give priority to education, when we have said that we must give priority to health, when we have said that it is the fight against poverty in Africa that must be the focus, yes, the Stortinget has meant it. I don't feel that the government necessarily follows it up. Nor is it the case, when the Minister for Development says that it is a good expression of changes in Norwegian development policy to set up new embassies in Bolivia, East Timor and Burundi, that there are necessarily examples of what we think is the most important thing. I think, for example: that there is a strong contrast between the fact that we do not maintain the proximity of our alliance partners in other administrative offices such as the United Kingdom. in the United States of America and Edinburgh, Scotland, which is now unsustainable. So when Erik Solheim chooses to change the course of development policy and to focus more on oil for the development of regimes in South America, he chooses to give priority to other important areas of Norwegian development policy. I think the Minister for Development should be clearer when he talks about him making political choices, and be proud of it, and about how these new initiatives match and affect the other objectives of development policy. That's what we didn't hear about. He said it was a new policy, but he didn't say how it affected what had been the common goals before. We agree that a government and a foreign minister and a development minister must have room for action because the world is not standing still. It can be beneficial to have the opportunity to redispatch funds quickly when you see conflicts and crises. However, the implementation of development policy, in particular long-term assistance, depends on so many actors that a minister cannot free up his efforts with agreed objectives and plans. For this government it seems almost a virtue that Norway should be able to move on funds in the hundreds of millions of people almost overnight. It also makes controlling money use more difficult. Without long-term leadership of development policy, there will be limited opportunities for the Storting, and thus the Norwegian people, to control the use of money – to see whether it is both corruption, and whether we spend the money effectively. The aim of using long-term aid money is to create development and ensure that countries can carry themselves forward, not just to see that the money is spent. So we want to signal that there is a need to give the government one never so little correct. We should get a message to the Storting about the changes the Government is implementing and how they affect the whole of development policy. That's how we're going to achieve part of our Millennium Goals. Yes, on a global scale, we may reach the goal of doing something about absolute poverty and halving it during this period. It takes place through economic growth in Asia and other middle-income countries, which lift poverty by creating jobs and growth, and by participating in international trade. The remaining countries are the African countries, which have not yet developed, and then it is the Latin American country which has a policy of distribution but which does not lack development and money. The question then is: is the objective of our development policy to address Latin America's policy of distribution, or is it creating development in Africa, so that countries can at all carry themselves forward? I mean the last one. I guess Solheim is going to answer that he thinks it's our responsibility to address the distribution policy problem in Latin America. The Committee also receives signals from many who are outside our own political discussion, that this government should not be able to fool around with the money, and that new initiatives must be assessed against the old. There are many in the aid environment now who express uncertainty as to whether the priorities set by the Government are at the expense of the basic long-term objectives previously set for Norwegian assistance. It's good that we know what you're prioritizing, but it should be important to be equally open about what you're prioritizing down, and what guidelines it will be for all the other actors working on this. For us in the Right, it is important that Norway continues to work to combat poverty in the world. We believe it should be targeted efforts in three areas. One, of course, is about acute distress, the result of sickness, hunger, lack of clean water and basic health care, and that is to ensure that the world gets better at the purely interpersonal and human level, which is necessary. Secondly, and we believe that this is important, we are not getting to a long-term development without building stable regimes and democracy around the countries. Then you have to fight corruption. We must make clear demands on the partners. We must promote democracy and human rights wherever Norway is involved in aid and development aid. Thirdly, it is essential to contribute to the participation of far more countries in the global market economy and to the ability to sell their goods on the open market under fair, decent conditions. That is what has lifted most people out of poverty and into a better world, and has helped us to combat the most serious poverty around. The director of the World Bank, Zoellick, said last year that we must not leave the bottom billion in the hole. I totally agree with that. That is why it is so important that the fight against conflict, discrimination and corruption does not stop, and that is why it is so important that we continue to fight for property rights, rule of law and good governance. That is the framework within which we should be able to bring about fundamental development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e376	The representative Erna Solberg is concerned with the continuity of development policy, but the right party is hardly the party in this room that has represented continuity. They entered the aid fold first under the Bondevik II government and then dropped off again for the current year's budget. When the Right presented its alternative budget last year, Christian People's Party's then Vice President Knut Arild Hareide wrote in a press release, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «Higher proposals are a long step in the wrong direction, away from the goal. Removing half a billion dollars from the 2007 aid proposal is a change of direction.’ The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt was even crazier in the budget debate and was ‘very disappointed’, which was an expression he used. He said, ‘The new thing is that the Right is breaking an uninterrupted series of budgets, with year by year emphasis being placed on stepping up efforts in relation to Norway’s annual service.’ The alternative budget of the Right is presented at 1 p.m. 13 today, but how will the Right ensure continuity, and how will they cooperate with their former government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e391	Last year we increased aid compared to the previous year. We didn't increase it as much as other parties in this room did, but the continuity the Right has had in every year in terms of assistance is that we're concerned about content. We're busy with quality, and we're busy getting results. We have thought that the 1 pst focus has ridden Norwegian policy like a mare, because you are not concerned about what results you get, just how much money you have. I think that there should be a basis for going more critically in and answering: What results do we get from this money? The whole history of Africa in the 1970s and 1980s is that we did not contribute to long-term development in these countries. There was a negative impact of the assistance in our largest cooperating country. We were very concerned about how much we gave, but the policy in these countries was wrong. We did not do what we wanted to do in Norway, namely to ensure a small minimum of market economy, so that farmers, for example, would. were paid for their products so that they were interested in reinvesting. It was not implemented as a policy. We are very predictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e398	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e401	Most parties agree that Norway should provide 1 pst. of gross national income in development aid. This includes, inter alia: to reach the thousandth anniversary. There is therefore a great deal of agreement on development policy, not least in Marit Nybakk's statement. I want to talk more about power in my article, because the world's poverty is not only due to it, but largely international power structures. The aim of development policy must therefore be to change these power structures. All we do in relation to developing countries must be to take sides for the poor and for the oppressed. It is not just the aid that must therefore be poverty-oriented; our trade policy must also be. The same must be true of our policy towards the World Bank. Every time we act in international forums, we have to act in such a way that it benefits the poor. Norway – is my claim – is now more on the poor side, and the Minister for Development deserves his part of the credit for it. In important areas, Norway is at the forefront of a horse’s head. An example is indebtedness. Not only have we removed a scourge from our own history, we have also eased the debt burden for countries that took up loans we gave them to solve our, not their, problems. Not least by doing so, we can be an example of follow-up and challenge other actors to look at their own creditor responsibility. And Norway continues to do so. The Council of State took up the Grebbe Funds in its presentation. The pitfalls are people and companies that buy up a developing country's debt for cheap money and then sue the developing country to collect the debt. One example is the trial between Donegal International Limited and Zambia. In our London court, Zambia had to pay more than 93 million. to Donegal International. The reason was that Donegal had taken over debt from the Romanian government. It had paid Donegal less than $24 million. kr for. The pits depend on countries that have received, or want to delete, debt. It is estimated that countries that have lost their debt have already had to pay more than 6 billion to such confiscation funds. The term gribbefonds is actually an insult to the griffins, because they are, after all, useful. So these funds are not. In the future, we must not just cancel debts, but we must also prevent such funds from benefiting from the fact that poor countries have become rid of their debts. The government is at the forefront of the fight against tax havens. According to Eva Joly, it is the first time a Western government declares war on tax havens. Tax Justice Network detects a global tax evasion that is disastrous for the poorest countries, which misses NOK 3000 billion each year in lost tax revenue because of tax evasion and tax competition. It's ten times the total aid budget in the world. Who's enriching? Both the political and economic elite and the transnational companies. Nigeria’s ecocrim is built with Norwegian support. Over the course of three years, Nigeria’s ecocrime has received 120 cases in court, received 2,000 convictions and contracted 5 billion dollars in corruption. Corruption would not have taken place if there had not been any place to hide the money. It is therefore an offensive against tax havens that are so important. At the same time, we must be clear in our demands towards Norwegian companies that invest in developing countries. In fact, the responsibility for corruption lies on both sides. Mo Ibrahim said at the conference "New Pictures of Africa" here in Oslo a little while ago: Don't pay bribes! You need two to dance tango! International trade is not just the cross-border exchange of goods. It's also the exercise of power. Anyone who has been in international negotiations has seen the structures of power in the conference hall and in the meeting rooms, and who is meeting around the negotiating tables. If we're going to contribute to a fair world, it's going to have consequences for which table we're sitting at, and who we're sitting with. An important change after the government change is that Norway has been more heavily involved in batches with developing countries. Many countries in the world are facing the same situation as Norway did a hundred years ago. They need both international investment and freedom to determine their own economic policies. A hundred years ago, we chose to make concession laws that gave extra benefits to our own industry. Norway chose to ensure that the hydropower was the property of the people. In today's language use, we chose an economic policy that discriminated between Norwegian and foreign business. Developing countries must, if they wish, have the same freedom to determine their own policies as Norway had a hundred years ago. They must be given the opportunity, through both development assistance and trade policy, to have tools in the box. In its statement, the Council of State underlined the absurdity of the United States’ dedicating the World Bank’s Chief Executive and the fact that a few European countries are pointing out the Head of the International Monetary Fund. Appointments based on passports at international level are reminiscent of lot book appointments in many countries. In addition, it shows how power is divided into two of the most important international organisations we have. It is therefore gratifying that Norway will end the Western Hegemony next time a World Bank head will be elected. This is also about development policy. The Council of State presented a study on the extent to which the World Bank is demanding privatisation. The study showed that there has been a decrease in such requirements. Nevertheless, there is still an example from Afghanistan: the European Debt and Development Network, Eurodad, describes in a report of November what the World Bank is doing in Afghanistan. There are many things to be concerned about in Afghanistan. The size of the public sector is hardly the largest. Nevertheless, the World Bank is working to privatise more than fifty state companies in two years. These companies currently employ about 25,000 people. 15 000 of these may become redundant as a result of privatisation. I also have another story from Afghanistan: it is that the National Scene in Bergen, in cooperation with Kabul Theatre and with the support of Norway, rebuilds the theatre and thus democracy from the stage edge. For cultural cooperation with developing countries, democracy and national construction are. It gives people experiences, mastery, challenges and experiences. This is good development aid, both in Kabul and in Ramallah, where we are involved in building an art academy. Man-made climate change affects the poorest. Many of them live at risk. One example is the world's largest delta where rivers Ganges and Brahmaputra meet. Many of them are poor, and they are exposed to floods and higher water levels. Climate action is therefore essential, including in development policy. One thing Norway will do is take care of the rainforest and biodiversity. By taking care of the rainforest, we also help indigenous peoples in developing countries. There have been questions like this in the media lately: Should climate action be at the expense of poverty reduction?My answer is clear: No! Climate action in development policy is not for us to buy ourselves free at the expense of the poorest. Nor do they exist to safeguard the strategic interests of Norway. Climate action is designed to avoid man-made climate change, first affecting the poorest. As UNEP points out, it is not possible to achieve the Millennium Goals without climate action, without addressing the man-made climate change. I would also like to add that peace building in war countries is also important in this work. Not least the experience of Africa shows that. Nor does the world reach the thousandth anniversary without a deliberate effort to improve the situation of women and girls. It is about strengthening women's political and economic participation, a tough fight against violence against women and girls, and for their sexual and reproductive health and rights, and integrating women's and girls' perspective into health and education. How we can do that, the Stortinge will be able to look at when the announced women's and development message is presented. I would like to stress that I am pleased that we have a development minister who has this as one of the main objectives of development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e439	The left has a lot of experience in attacking financial institutions, like the World Bank, and what many of us think can build a new future: capitalism and market economy. So they say that it's the power structures of many of these organizations that are a problem for the poor. We're going to take that seriously. We'll discuss that. I will not attack absolutely everything that was said in the contributions of the representative, Valle, but I am not the power of invincible leaders, for example. Despots in Africa, a far more serious problem than the fact that the World Trade Organisation is not necessarily the ideal for democracy? It's probably going to be a much more debatable problem than having to do something about the corrupt regime in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e447	I believe that I was quite thoroughly involved in the fight against corruption, the need to look at tax havens, and to strengthen the fight against corruption of individual countries, as has been shown to have happened in Nigeria. I can also mention that strengthening civil society is extremely important in the building of democracy. History also shows that there is a lot of civil society construction that has given us the democracy we have. That is why it is important to build and support free media, to support civil society in developing countries, so that they can take up the fight. So it's important that we keep paying attention to, for example. The World Bank, which has required privatisation in order for poor countries to obtain loans. I showed you an example of what a person does in Afghanistan. It is important to draw up such examples. It has something to do with what opportunities you have to solve poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e456	All aspects of assistance are complex and difficult. I sometimes think that SV is a very easy way of thinking. It's e.g. When the World Bank asks governments in some countries to structure their money, the left-hand side of Norway will criticise it and say that it is a privatisation, and that they cannot afford it. At the same time, we know that in the same countries, public servants may just get paid for what will be 14 days' work, and that will make them live off their own family. It provides a basis for corruption. There are some contexts in the policy that I think SV does very simple. I remember Mozambique's Finance Minister in the 1990s. He was strongly criticised for increasing the wages of public employees and at the same time privatizing something. He said that when you say we're going to fight corruption, it means that those who work for me actually have to pay so that the family can survive. If not, they will be paid to grant permits. Do not see SV that there is some of it as e.g. Does the World Bank point out when they say that the economy needs to be restructured in some countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e465	The ability of public employees to earn a living is, of course, also a matter of combating poverty. I'm not saying for a moment that aid policy is easy. It's complicated. What's important, what we've pointed out, and what I see is that we've had a change in the World Bank, is that they require privatisation as a condition for countries to get loans to move on in their own development. That's the requirement for privatisation that gets so wrong. At the same time, what we point out is that countries should get out of poverty and develop, they must be allowed to choose their own path, as Norway did a hundred years ago when we were a poor country. They must be able to have their own resources and decide the political path. They may choose to privatize, see that it is a good tool, but it must not come as a unilateral demand from a powerful structure outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e470	The representative Valle made a large number of his articles that this government is more on the side of the poor than previous governments. She pointed out very clearly that climate action should not be at the expense of the poor. In this way she is well in line with the aid organisations when they warn that it may happen, but they are told by the Council of State in the newspaper today that they are customs. My question is linked to a serious letter that the Foreign Affairs Committee members received from the Red Children two days ago. Save Children points to the negative consequences of changing Norwegian priorities in aid policy. They write: ‘First, development cooperation is adapted to Norwegian interests and qualifications and, in our opinion, not to the needs of the beneficiary countries. Secondly, we experience that it has become so that we have to call educational work for something other than education to trigger financial support from Norway.’ My question to the representative Valle: Is this an expression that the Government prioritises the poor more? Or is it an expression that the aid organisations are customs?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e482	We should always listen to what assistance organisations and movements are saying to us. When I point out that we are more on the side of the poor, it is because we have cleared the debt that everyone else has called quite shameful, but have done nothing about, that we have done nothing about our demands to the World Trade Organisation, and that we have also changed the policy towards the World Bank. It's obvious that if we're going to reach the Millennium Goal, we have to bet on both education and on doing something about the man-made climate change, which is actually destroying the poor. Here we have skills that we can offer in the development work, but there is no requirement that one, for example. shall use Norwegian interests. It's an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e487	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e490	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Development for his open presentation and involvement of the Stortinget towards the preparation of the announced big business message on Norwegian development policy. It has given room for the Storting to provide input and support for the work of the Government and the Minister for Development in development policy. I think it is a strength that there is so much consensus in the United Kingdom about development policy and support for an experience and knowledge-based development policy. For the Central Party, it is essential that the direction on which Norwegian development policy is based is that the developing countries themselves are in the driving seat. At the same time, Norway has special advantages and prerequisites as to how to create a development from being a poor agricultural and fisheries society to becoming an industrial and welfare country. Thus, we can also help reverse a development policy from being less charities-based to contribute to facilitating conditions on the country’s own premises. The Nordic model has become almost fashionable in the international development debate. The building blocks of the Nordic model are the social actors and their organisations. There is a consensus model, where the result has been a tough draw between different actors, trade unions, food producers, environmental organisations, women's liberation groups, economic operators and shareholders. It is the balance between these actors, the dialogue and the negotiations that are at the heart of what has become a law aimed at balancing the resources, well-being and prosperity of Norway and the Nordic countries. Furthermore, the Nordic word ‘Ombudsman’ has become international. I want to see it as an integral part of the Nordic model. It is a symbol of how the Nordic model has also created mechanisms for the weakest to be heard. The Minister for Development warned that while the development policy on which there is a high degree of consensus in society and in the United Kingdom continues with unreduced strength, models are now actively being employed to transfer Norwegian and Nordic experiences to countries that wish to do so. The Norwegian model to strengthen civil society and economic operators on the labour and supplier sides, and in particular to ensure that a new, national business and business cluster can grow, is and must be an integral part of such a commitment. So we have heard in the debate today that development policy has been marked by charity. It can lead to correctness, but let me use some examples that show that we're working on other criteria, and that we're succeeding. For example: Namibia we have been involved in building a fishing nation, a nation that has rich resources on the marine side, but has not benefited from it for its own nation and has not had control. We have been involved in the construction of a control plant, a fisheries management. We've been involved in building a processing industry, and the result is that now the country is left with revenue of NOK 4.5 billion, and 30,000-40,000 people are working in this area. It's interesting that politicians from Namibia clearly express joy at what has happened, but ask us to help develop aquaculture in a similar way. We have the same experience from Angola, where StatoilHydro has used Norwegian legislation, Norwegian environmental technology and Norwegian safety standards, and has been involved in developing the oil sector there. This is an example of our participation in giving a country the right to dispose of its own resources and the possibility of development on the social side. It is also interesting to note that in a meeting in Angola, the Angolan Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the great concern from Angola was economic neo-colonialism, which left a heavy hand over developments in a number of countries. It is also interesting that we have just had a conversation with Ecuador's coast minister, who wanted to get involved in Norwegian fisheries legislation and resource management just to look at the possibility of transferring Norwegian experience to Ecuador, adapted to its own circumstances. We have heard that the fight against poverty is a broad consensus, and that is a priority area. But let me point out that it is also important to combat hunger. It is therefore gratifying that there is a great deal of agreement and support for the action plan for agriculture in the field of aid. I have heard that Norway has no experience with agriculture that is relevant to developing countries. This statement is hardly descriptive of the real situation, and I think again the Norwegian model can be used in that context. Through the organisation of small producers, the establishment of cooperative forms that have strengthened the price and predictability of producers, and the processing of raw materials and value creation in the districts, our farmers have obtained a negotiating power that few in the world have. It has helped to give us a food security that we might take for granted today. In the country of 70–90 p.m. the population depends on local agricultural production and rural living in the poorest countries of the world, we should be able to contribute both to experience and to solutions that can give them influence and authority. The world is facing new challenges, with rapid changes in climate, drought and floods. The government's environmental effort and commitment to Africa will and must contribute to strengthening producers' ability to master climate change, ensuring food production and preserving genetic resources. Norwegian experience with tough climate conditions and limited resources to grow food is also relevant in developing countries. Cooperation between actors across national borders between the north and the south could be beneficial for food security in the soil and the challenges posed by a changing climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e523	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e526	The Red-Green Government follows up many of the main points of development policy drawn up by the Bondevik II Government. I'm thinking about St.meld. No 35 for 2003–2004, Joint fight against poverty. This is a comprehensive framework for development policy focusing on the Millennium Goals, poverty orientation, beneficiary orientation, coordination and rights-based development. The message got a big break here in Stortinget. I believe that the main elements of it are still good, and that there is no need for a completely new development policy. In the statement by the Minister of Development on 8 June, the Council of State stated that the Government would be bolder in its development policy and drier. I think that's basically a nice setting to have. However, I am somewhat skeptical, because this profiling need may help to confuse some of the common bases on which development policy is based. On several points we see that the red-greens go a little bit their own way: the thousand-year targets were, for example, almost not mentioned in this statement. I therefore fully support joint comments that draw the Government's attention back to the Millennium Goals. They provide a widely agreed basis for development policy, not only in Norway but also on a global basis. Furthermore, they prove to have a significant mobilising effect on both donors and recipients. They also focus on the major challenges such as child mortality, maternal mortality, malnutrition, education, gender equality and HIV/AIDS. Unfortunately, we must be realists and realise that not all the objectives related to these areas seem to be achieved. However, I believe that a rich country such as Norway needs to do its part to maintain focus and momentum in relation to the Millennium Goals. Furthermore, the government seems to have a slightly weaker focus on poverty than the previous one. The initiative in Latin America is an expression of this, as the co-operation countries there are middle-income countries. The investment in oil for development also contributes to a weakening of poverty orientation, for there are oil deposits and not poverty that are the criterion of the Government. Another problematic issue is that the focus on oil for development may be difficult to distinguish between aid and the promotion of Norwegian industrial interests. I would also like to say a few words about the wish to concentrate the Norwegian aid effort. The Minister for Development pointed out in his statement that Norway should not become a ‘mini-FN’ engaged everywhere. However, there has been a further spread of aid, both thematically and geographically, in the Red-Green Government. No old response areas have been significantly reduced, while new ones have been prioritised. I have already mentioned Latin America and oil for development, and can also mention climate action. In 2006, Norwegian aid was given to 116 countries in some form, which may be too much. Dissemination so thinly could be at the expense of the effectiveness of assistance. I have noticed the Minister of Development's reply to the criticism that the Government is politicizing the aid. In his statement he stated that he met this criticism with pride, because ‘policy is the most important thing in all aid’. I am very much in agreement with that. At the same time, there is reason to warn against the politicisation of aid, which has increased somewhat during this government. A declared objective for Norwegian assistance, which most people support, is that it should be recipient-oriented. Developing countries shall themselves govern and own their development. It shall not be governed by donor countries such as Norway, which may easily fall for the temptation to push through their own political priorities. The intentions may be the best, but the overall consideration for the orientation of recipients can be weakened rapidly. The left is therefore in favour of an aid policy in which the rhetoric about recipient orientation is more followed up in practice. More specifically, the ability and ability of the cooperating countries to make their own choices and to manage their own development needs to be strengthened. This presupposes inter alia: a proper balance between state-to-state support, where co-operation countries will sit in the driver’s seat, and the thematic assistance, where the thematic priorities have been implemented in Oslo. The left will point in particular to budget support, which gives cooperative countries a relatively high degree of leeway with regard to the use of aid, but also a great deal of responsibility. I want to link some comments to trade. The Minister for Development pointed out in his statement the importance of the current WTO round, the Doha Round, becoming a real development round. The interests of developing countries must be at the centre. In the period since the presentation, the possibilities of moving this round ashore have been significantly weakened. Many therefore suggest that the time perspective for the round must be dropped several years into the future. Meanwhile, poor developing countries will continue to lose in the field of trade policy. I therefore support the Government's proposal to give a further 14 developing countries zero duty. At the same time, I would like to stress that zero-tolls are not always enough to engage in trade with poor developing countries. Studies in Norway show this. Although Malawi has got zero-tolls into our markets, we do not see any more items from Malawi in the store shelves. I believe that we need to do more to promote trade, given its great importance for development. I therefore support the Government's proposal to increase trade-related technical assistance. This will enable poor developing countries to benefit fully from their WTO membership and to derive the greatest possible benefits from international trade. Central Keywords here are capacity building and increased competence in understanding and using trade-related legislation. In addition, I believe that more concrete measures should be taken to promote imports into Norway from poor developing countries. The left has therefore proposed an increase of 5 million in its draft budget. kr for such purposes. Having said this, I would like to add that a country like Norway, which is a small and creased market far away, hardly represents the greatest trade potential for many poor developing countries. They usually find it in their own regions, or in countries like China and India. I have noted the Riksrevision's criticism of Norwegian aid management for lack of control procedures and for poor target and result achievement. The procedures for reporting suspicions of corruption and maladministration are weak. One problem here is that the government's good intentions to strengthen evaluation and performance reporting are not followed up with sufficient resources. In 2006, 12.6 million were used. kr on central independent evaluation e.g. in Norad, versus 20 million. kr in 2007. This is disappearing small amounts when you know that the aid budget has grown to over 22 billion dollars. In addition to Norad's independent evaluations, which are submitted to qualified and independent professional institutions, reviews are carried out by the ministry and embassies. They do not meet the same strict OECD/DAC independence requirements. I believe that the independent evaluations are important in order to ensure a high quality of assistance. Furthermore, I support the demand for enhanced procedures and procedures in case of suspicion of default and corruption within the assistance. Finally, I would like to stress that, in order to ensure broad political support for relatively high appropriations for assistance in the future, it is important to establish an effective quality assurance system. Furthermore, we need good procedures and procedures to clean up when there is suspicion of default and corruption. In order to emerge with credibility in the fight against corruption, we must first get order in our own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e556	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e560	The representative used a couple of terms that I think it's necessary to figure out what it means. One is the ‘politicisation of assistance’, the other is the ‘recipient orientation’. I quoted in my post the Council of State as follows: aid and humanitarian aid are important, but politics is more important. By that I believe that providing the internal distribution in each country, an internal distribution, is actually one of the most important things we do. Police is something else. But we have always driven the politicisation of the aid. We choose which countries are to be countries of cooperation, we choose who will receive budget support, based on an internal allocation policy, and that is well – now I have to ask the representative – in many ways politicising aid? It is also the case that budget support for Uganda or Mozambique is partly earmarked for specific development purposes. That means that even though we have receiver orientation, we still select what we provide assistance for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e569	As I mentioned in my post, I am not negative to the fact that it is a politicisation of the assistance. It will always be, because we need to have a sense of what we're doing in the aid. When it comes to receiving information, I used that word a good deal, because I think it is essential in the aid work that we register what the country of destination needs, and that it is not just us in Norway who will sort of manage the assistance according to what we believe and believe is important for this country. It must be the countries themselves that govern this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e576	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e579	I made a statement to the Storting about what was called ‘single development policy issues’, and then, of course, highlighted what is a further development of policy, what is new, what are new challenges, either because we are developing new policies, or because circumstances put us in a new situation. The size, with Mr Dagfinn Højbräten, has then chosen to focus on what is common good, which is the basic prerequisite for this policy. There is a combination that I think is absolutely excellent, and the rapporteur's posts just demonstrated the broad consensus on, for example. The thousand-year targets that we're pursuing. And then we have to discuss which policies are needed to achieve those objectives. It is also positive that the Progress Party is involved in much more of this today than I have seen before. If the rapporteur chooses to use the expression ‘Keep the Council of State in mind’, I have to say that I live very well with it. But I'm going to continue to push the debate in this area. Because I also agree with the Progress Party that there is a danger that there will be too many adopted truths in the area of assistance, and a certain concern about what we do in the meaning of creative thought, innovation, is of the good and not of the bad. We fully agree that the Millennium Goals form the basis of Norwegian development policy. But the thousand-year targets can't be achieved in any vacuum. The Millennium Goals prove to be historically achieved in countries in peace – it requires policies – in countries with a strong state – it requires policies – and in countries with a strong business life that can provide the economic basis for achieving the Millennium Goals or education or health – it also requires policies. Combating poverty is, of course, the goal of Norwegian development policy. But poverty is being combated through trade policy, economic policy, the fight against oppressive international power structures, which Ågot Valle was involved in, etc. In short, all the fundamental objectives of poverty reduction and the Millennium Goals require policy. In a debate where there has otherwise been a lot of agreement, I think the post from the Right Leader at this point was totally contradictory, because after first criticizing me and the Government in order to emphasize politics too much, she herself comes into Zambia as an example of how politics has just ruined development in a country. The example is very well chosen, because the description of how hopeless policy was under Kaunda is precise. What saw the Right Leader not mention is that in response to Kaunda, Chiluba, after which the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the international financial institutions threw themselves over this, and at Chiluba's help, the pendulum turned from too much state over to an extreme privatisation. So today Zambia has 3-5 pst. of the revenue from its large resource, copper, i.e. in an international comparison, an extremely small gain of their own from what they should live on, as oil is important to us. This shift from the extreme state to the extreme private has helped to destroy Zambia, and if you ask the Zambians today, probably Kaunda's position in the country is much stronger than Chilubas. Chiluba is still in court in the capital of Lusaka these days. However, the example is well-chosen and illustrates my basic point, namely that policy is always the most important. Let me point to six policy areas that are prerequisites for achieving the Millennium Goals and combating poverty: The first policy area is the environment. This is coming out of all the later reports of the United Nations. If we cannot fight climate change, we will not be able to eliminate poverty either. The world’s poorest has not contributed to climate emissions at all, but it is the ones that have the toughest consequences of climate emissions. Among other things, everything suggests that, with the exception of a small area on the east coast, the whole of Africa will be significantly more dry. It's the continent, on which Alf Ivar Samuelsen and others lived, which has had a dramatic decline in agricultural production over the last decades, while the rest of the world has had a dramatic increase in agricultural production. There it will get dryer, and the poorest will have to pay the price. In addition, the poorest countries are the least able to deal with climate change. Think of what arsenal Arnold Schwarzenegger had in California by the fires there, with helicopters, non-governmental organizations, a strong state apparatus, etc., and think of what Sierra Leone has to do with if they were to face a drastic natural disaster as a result of climate change! If we don't fight climate change, we can't fight poverty, as Dagfinn Højbråten was right. Secondly, as Morten Höglund was in it, state building is absolutely fundamental, and some regimes contribute to bringing their countries down. Zimbabwe is an excellent example of that. I think it's not realistic to think that the world community on some big scale will be able to go in and replace bad regimes, but what we can do is go in and help new, good, hopeful regimes in a start-up phase. And the very reason why I've been very committed to Latin America is that it now has a wind, a democratic wind – the kind of inclusive societies that I think we all in this room agree to want, which is the Norwegian state in a nutshell, where farmers, workers, indigenous people, all are included in the state – over Latin America, and many new democratic regimes come to power. They deserve active support in a start-up phase. Bolivia and Ecuador are examples of this. But this doesn't mean a policy where the government and I only support left-wing positive regimes. Liberia has now elected a new female president. She's been working at the World Bank. Laura Bush and Condoleezza Rice traveled, as the only time, I think, to Africa to join a presidential post, just to support her. It is possible they have joined another, but at least they wanted to actively support Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf when she came to power. We do, too, because she represents a hope for Liberia and is the equivalent of the villains of Morten Høglund. Burundi is another example of that. They now have a democratically elected president. For the first time, the country has had a democratic government that has been sitting for two years. For us, it's a matter of course, because Burundi is the first time. Therefore – again – we have gone in and given support to Burundi. We may not be able to dismiss all the dictators, but we can provide support for those countries that are hopeful in a start-up phase. Thirdly, of course, security is crucial if we are to develop. I would like to say that I am particularly concerned about what is now happening in Sudan, where the fundamental peace agreement between the north and south of the country, signed – as was said here earlier in the debate, with Hilde Frafjord Johnson's active participation – between the SPLM and the Government, is in grave danger. The SPLM has resigned from the National Assembly Board. They require solutions to oil-related issues and a good deal of other questions, and together with the international community, we are now doing everything in Norway's power to try and get this agreement back in place. If we do not do so, of course, security, which is the basis for development in Sudan, will be at risk. Fourthly, the fight against corruption is crucial. There's a lot of money in here. Our goal is not to give the most assistance possible, our goal is to get the most development possible. If corrupt leaders in African or other countries send this money to tax havens, whether it's London or Switzerland or different island states, it's completely unacceptable, because there's more money going out of the country than we're coming in with, and it has to be combated. I'm glad that Ågot Valle drew out how important it is. Fifthly, and it may be a little more surprising: this government has, frankly, concentrated the private sector more than the previous government in development policy. I'm proud of it. We should have more Norwegian private investment in Africa than we have today because it contributes to development. If Norwegian meat can get into Uganda, it's great. When the Shipowners' Association now starts training seafarers hopefully in Nigeria and elsewhere on the west coast of Africa – they are in Brazil right away – it's brilliant. It qualifies labour and creates jobs in poor countries and deserves our support and cooperation, not in the old-fashioned way where we are going to fund the Norwegian export industry, but in the new way with a public-private partnership to get more private investment. This should dispel the interest of those in this room who otherwise talk a lot about the private sector. So finally, maybe the most important thing: the oil price is now $100 the barrel. Every country from Mauritania to Angola along the west coast of Africa has either found oil or rains to find oil. If they get their oil production correctly, it provides a phenomenal opportunity for their own earnings and financing of their own development. Let me illustrate this with numbers: the state budget in Tanzania is $40 billion, much less than the local government budget. The aid to Tanzania is NOK 17 billion, of course the Norwegian part of which is a very small part. A significant oil discovery in Tanzania would generate, even for a country that has so much aid income, much more in income than what assistance can provide. Therefore, it is so central to use the relatively small resources in aid to help countries manage the much larger resources contained in copper, diamonds, oil, etc. in such a sensible way that oil revenues can build schools, health and everything else to achieve the Millennium Goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e607	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e610	I would like to address one of the channels that Norway is actively using, namely the United Nations system. The UN has defined the Millennium Goals, which we can all stand behind, but is it given that the UN is effective enough? Many have their own, positive impressions of the UN out in the field, and there's no simplification of it. I think the UN ideally works very well, but there are also examples of the opposite. Will the Council of State Erik Solheim do something to measure how well the UN works, and whether it's through the UN we're going to continue to increase assistance, as we've done in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e615	I agree with what Mr Höglund said in his earlier speech today, namely that the UN is better at the normative than at the operational level. The importance of the UN for setting standards for the rest of the world – human rights, women, in a number of areas – is absolutely fundamental. Without that, we would have been in the Stone Age in terms of the international system. With regard to operational issues, there are significantly greater problems in the UN’s activities. That's exactly why the Prime Minister said he was willing to lead the international panel to see how to strengthen this. The most exciting operation that is now taking place is that – I believe it is in nine countries – a project has been launched with one UN at country level. These countries themselves have asked for permission to carry out this experiment. It's e.g. Mozambique and Tanzania in Africa, Vietnam, Albania and Uruguay. It's land in all parts of the world. If in these countries, which has chosen it themselves, you can do it when the UN organizations are doing their utmost to bring it about, I think it can allay the unrest that exists around this in many developing countries, so that you get to one UN at country level as a norm.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e622	I would like to be allowed to clarify one thing for the Minister of Development. There is a difference between politicising the aid debate and the aid policy in such a way that one skips away from all that the Stortinget has meant in the past, focusing on other, new, politically interesting issues, and believing that a country's policy leads is crucial to whether or not it will develop. In the last area, I believe that it is quite general and very important, and therefore there are important reasons why we should choose some countries away, even if they have poverty issues. The Council of State politicises by jumping to completely different areas than the Great Council has prioritised, and the inauguration of the Council of State now holds, makes me have to ask a fundamental question: has the Council of State understood that the almost unanimous attitude given is an attempt to turn the Council of State into what are the priorities, what the broad political majority has prioritised, namely the Millennium Goals, the Poverty Orientation and Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e629	There's no doubt in my mind about the thousand-year-olds. What's the real discussion, is what's going to happen to them, and I have no idea that the Storting disagrees with the fact that there are policies that are most important to achieve the Millennium Goals. That said, among other things: Marit Nybakk and a number of others, and the Left said the same in the debate. We don't achieve the Millennium Goals through some kind of advanced charity. We achieve the Millennium Goals by improving our policies, by improving the international global system with the UN and the World Bank to help us achieve the Millennium Goals. By spending the big money right when we're dealing with the thousand-year goals of peace and the environment. The oil for development program is not something I have invented. It was started in its speed beginning during the previous government, but it's dramatically expanded. I would think, but I can be wrong about this, that the Right also agrees that it must be a fundamental task to contribute to the fact that very many developing countries, perhaps half of Africa, which now have difficult raw material incomes – it is a commodity tree in Africa – have an entirely fundamental opportunity to finance their own development by their own resources. Then it must be a central task for Norwegian assistance to help them with that. Then we also reach the Millennium Goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e634	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e637	I listened attentively to the statements of the Council of State and also to the last reply. I find reason to repeat the representative Solberg's question. It should be unnecessary, but the Council of State placed such emphasis on its role as a debater in development policy and so little emphasis on its role as a follow-up to policy-making that there is reason to ask the question again. Has the Council of State noticed that in the almost unanimous position there are clear leads for what the Storting expects the Government to govern, the great administrative responsibility it has for 22 billion DKK, the many voluntary and public aid actors and international organisations that depend on clear signals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e643	I started my post today with just emphasising the broad consensus it is about achieving the Millennium Goals and combating poverty as the central element of Norwegian development policy. We will come back with a big message, which we have now started working on, and which will give the Storting the opportunity to discuss this in its full width. If we are to achieve the Millennium Goals, it is the world's policy and, as Mrs Solberg also said, in the individual countries that are the most fundamental. I don't know any country that's reached the thousand-year targets in a civil war situation. If we do not manage to solve the environmental problems – and this is evident from a number of UN documents – if we do not manage to solve the climate crisis, none of the poorest countries will be able to achieve the Millennium Goals, simply because agricultural and other resources are being drained through climate change destruction, so that there will be no resources left to achieve the health and education objectives. Now you are in a situation where there is an incredible flow of money to many developing countries. Then it must be absolutely essential that the money can be used to achieve the thousand-year targets. It is not our goal to maximise assistance, but to maximise development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e650	The Millennium Goals must clearly be at the bottom. As I mentioned in my post, the Riksrevision has pointed out that Norwegian aid management has some lack of control procedures and poor target and result achievement. It's important to grasp, because we have to be credible in this. Furthermore, they say that the procedures for reporting suspicions of corruption and maladministration are weak. Since the Council of State did not mention any of this in its article, I would like to ask him a little about it. Thus, the government has good intentions to strengthen evaluation and performance reporting, but there is a problem that this is not followed up with sufficient resources. I mentioned that in 2006 it was used 12.6 million. kr on central independent evaluation in Norad, against 20 mill. kr in 2007, and now we have 22 billion kroner in aid. I believe that increased performance reporting and evaluation are important in order to ensure a high quality of assistance. Does the Minister for Development agree with this, and what will he do to lead more resources to central independent performance reporting?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e655	These are key issues. Getting enough good control procedures in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norad we're working on, and hopefully we'll be able to present this to the public in a fourteen-day period. The second is the evaluation of whether the aid actually works. I had an interesting, good meeting yesterday with Norad's evaluation unit. They have a comprehensive programme for evaluation in the future. One of the things they're doing is a country evaluation of Zambia, since it was mentioned here earlier. They will also go into a number of areas and evaluate. But we are more than willing to input from others, including from the representative Larsen, about what one considers to be the most central thing to evaluate. The evaluations are made on international tenders, so that companies from all over the world can submit tenders. I think, for example, It is a Belgian company that has evaluated Zambia – if I remember correctly. So we want total transparency about this evaluation, and I would like to sit down and hear if there are specific things representatives in the Storting feel are particularly important to be evaluated in order to push the debate forward in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e662	Despite the numerous assurances of the Council of State to ensure that our aid heads are checked out, we see that the state of things is far from satisfactory. The National Audit Office has come up with crushing criticism for lack of control and also claims that little has been done with critical relationships from previous years. Why has the ministry failed to deal with these issues in the past? And now what is being done in a concrete way to get these conditions right?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e669	I would like to distance myself from the representative’s statement that the Riksrevision has come up with “crushing” criticism. That's not the coverage to say. But the Riksrevision has come up with critical issues that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is going to improve. What we do, among other things, has done, in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office, the formation of a central control unit in the Ministry, which shall be the place where all suspicions of maladministration, whether corruption, understatement or excessive means, can be reported. We want to make a warning poster. We'll make guidelines for the embassies. We create a comprehensive training programme throughout the department, to all our embassies, on corruption hazards. What elements should be looked for to detect corruption? We are working extensively on this, and I hope that we can present it to the public within two to three weeks. But this will be a theme where we have to have constant vigilance, and I appreciate that the Storting is also very alert to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e674	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e677	I would remind you that if it had been up to the committee, this debate would have been in June, two to three days after the appointment of the Minister for Development. I feel pretty sure that that debate had been relatively different and more concretely related to the issues raised by the Minister for Development. I would also like to remind you that what we are talking about today is about ‘some development policy issues’. Therefore, it was not intended, nor was it intended, that the distribution from the Minister of Development should be a holistic communication on development policy. The government has promised to bring them to the next year. The Committee's configuration has a slightly broader perspective, with an equal amount of signals about what you would like to do with the future message, such as commenting on the content of what was published by the Minister for Development. I see that someone has made this as criticism by the Council of State. I want to claim that there is an attempt to create a false contrast - opposites that are not there. On the contrary, the setting used once again shows a great deal of agreement on development policy in Norway. Although we in the Labour Party were in a slightly broader approach, there is no doubt that we are fully in agreement with the policy for which the Minister of Development was doing well in ours, and what he said in his speech here today. The translation of 1 pst. GNI for assistance has been crucial to the growth of this budget. And even though neither the previous government nor the current government has reached its full goal, there is no doubt that this objective has contributed to a strong growth. Over the last seven years, we have doubled the development budget, and this growth will continue. Although the long-term objective must, of course, be to bring us down to zero assistance, because the need is gone, we must admit that everything indicates that there will be such a need for many, many years to come. It is important to debate the content. We have to ask ourselves what helps, and what measures we believe. Although Norway is a major and important development policy player, I think we can become even more important if we focus on what is right, not least where we can contribute something that no one else can contribute. Although the goal of development assistance should clearly be to focus on the needs of the recipient, I can't see that there should be a contradiction between the goal and the Government's focus on contributing to the areas where we in Norway have special knowledge. Oil for development is a good example of that. The knowledge we have built up over decades in Norway can now benefit other and younger oil nations. With today's oil price, we know that money flows into many poor countries. Used correctly, this money can help to improve the lives of millions of people, but if the money is used incorrectly, it can make things worse. Norway has the best oil management system in the world. It is only positive if we can export the expertise we have in this field. These are methods that can also be used in countries where natural resources other than oil and gas are available. Too many countries have unfortunately felt that they are being looted almost by large foreign groups, which in many cases did not leave much other than environmental problems. So here Norway and Norwegian competence have a possibility to show that there is a difference. Several members of the Committee have noted that the Committee was in the fall and visited Namibia and Angola, and one of the most impressive was the assistance given by Norway with the transfer of competence in the fisheries sector. So now one has managed to build up a control system and a national fisheries policy in these countries, based on Norwegian knowledge — another example of a transfer of important competences without necessarily having to cost a lot of money. In the spring, I addressed an interpellation the need for control of the aid money. I am absolutely sure that we should be able to maintain the legitimacy of the high aid effort we have in Norway, we must have the support of the Norwegian people. And if we're to have the support of the Norwegian people, it must be because one knows that the money that goes for development actually works and comes for those who want it. I am very pleased that the Minister for Development is now confirming that one is taking this question seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e696	What has been positive in today's debate is that more people now – at least verbally – have focused on whether the aid or development aid actually comes out and works as it should, and also that knowledge and not necessarily money can actually help as well, cf. the representative of Nybakk concerning the fishing project in Namibia; The main characteristic of the Norwegian development policy is that there is the amount of aid in dollars or the proportion of GDP that goes for this purpose, which has been the most important. On the part of the Progress Party, unlike the rest, we have seen the quality of the assistance, if it comes to those who need it, and if it works according to purpose. It's nice to see that even others in this room are starting to get their eyes up for this. Fortunately, a number of recent press headlines on poor follow-up, control and means of balance have also caused others to react. The National Audit Office stated as late as 16 October that ‘the management of aid projects is too poor’. According to ANB-NTB, Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo says: ‘Here, significant means are readily available. Good reporting systems, in particular with regard to suspicions of corruption and maladministration, are essential for controlling the use of money in this area’.» And it goes on to say, ‘Critics for deaf ears’, as little has been done, ‘with critical relationships from previous years’. On 30 October, you can read an NTB message again, entitled 'Tsunami Millions Fail'. According to TV 2, the Riksrevision is also here «far from satisfied and asks the U.D. to strengthen control». ‘What now emerges is that a significant amount of money does not benefit the needy’ – again according to the National Auditor. His ‘trying to find evidence of what tsunamilliarden was used for has revealed a sad fact: Norwegian authorities have largely not controlled how the money has been spent.The problem is that compulsory accounts and final reports from the aid projects are simply missing. Then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs responsible for the allocations cannot know how much of the money has been spent for help and how much has disappeared." The National Auditor goes on to say that he: ‘is of little faith that the objective of receiving assistance can be achieved unless the U.S. equips the apparatus to control the use of the money’. In the newspaper on October 31, we get a third fresh example of how this has developed. Here we are told that from the Norwegian side, 100 million have been spent. kr on an AIDS medicine that does not work. So since 2002, Norwegian money has been spent through the international partnership for microbisides on a project that, according to judgment, does not have any effect, and again we see that the very few question this. I could mention a number of other examples of a lack of governance in Norwegian aid and projects with no effect or negative effect, but I have only mentioned someone who has been mentioned in the press in the last month. The reactions of the Norwegian authorities have also been relatively predictable. The Minister of Development has been out in the media, put his face in serious folders and said that this is not how we can do it, and that now everything is going to get better. Even the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has been in the press and has immediately asked the Minister for the Environment and Development to clean up the ‘aid mess’. He has also sent a chronicle to several of the country's newspapers for security reasons, in which he calls for better control of development aid. We have heard some of the same wording here today. What we need now, however, is not fine wording, but active action, which we in the Progress Party have been calling for over a number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e737	Today, domestic and foreign policies are interwoven differently from those in the past. Development and foreign policy, trade policy, climate policy, migration and immigration policies – all of which have an impact on each other. We need to provide targeted assistance that helps to save the environment, combat poverty and disease, build civil society, sustainable governance and drive the development of democracy. In its presentation, the Councils of State are promoting Africa in particular and the many challenges facing the continent. Regardless of Norway’s priorities, Africa has been the world’s forgotten continent for far too many years. Africa is under the shadow of both the war in Iraq and the problems in the Middle East. In Congo, 4 million people could be killed, almost without the world responding. In the small – in the very small – I myself have participated in relief work in relation to Congo-Brazzaville. The Foundation «La Afrika leben», based on Skien and Telemark, has undertaken various local projects, especially in schools. This work has given me memories of life, but has also taken away illusions. Economic assistance in isolation solves far from a country's problems. Efforts in many different policy areas are needed to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals. I will now take into account in particular the importance of development policy for migration. When five Congolese musicians visit Norway and seek asylum, it is for a better life here in Europe. When thousands of boat refugees come to the Canary Islands from Africa, it's a flight from hopelessness. If poverty is combated and hope is lit, fewer will desperately flee to a better life in the West. Massive illegal immigration will decrease – but unfortunately we are not there today. Migration and development are inextricably linked. Both the country of origin and the country of destination will in most cases be economically viable with controlled migration. The policy of industrialised countries regarding the opportunities for people from developing countries to take up work in other countries for a short or longer time is assessed by the OECD as an important part of the international framework conditions for development. Migrants send money home. This money far exceeds public assistance from the north to the south and can contribute to providing families with both education and better health and quality of life. The money is a vitamin injection into local economies. Migrant tourism also contributes to increased knowledge and competence and can contribute to increased entrepreneurship. It is important that persons with a refugee background can return to the country of origin after war or conflict in order to participate in the reconstruction of the country for a shorter or longer period. I'm going to take one special challenge in this perspective, and it's brain fluttering. It is clear that we can contribute to brain migration in the country of origin because highly skilled labour can leave the country. It is painful and difficult for many developing countries, especially in Africa. That is why it is important that we be able to pursue a policy that does not bottle up developing countries, but that can also stimulate people to return to be involved in the development of their own country. Global migration has become a theme both in the UN, in the EU and in the Western Union. Internationally, the relationship between foreign and development policies and migration, integration and inclusion policies is increasingly being discussed. Prevention and response to refugee challenges will have an impact on how Norway too will be affected by international conflicts. By means of a deliberate strategy, Norway can help prevent refugees, provide more assistance in refugee camps and facilitate the return and reintegration of refugees and asylum seekers in their country of origin. However, it requires better coordination of Norwegian development and migration policies. This is also the background to the recent proposal by the Right in the UK asking the Government to present its own report on a comprehensive refugee and migration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e756	The Minister for Development said in his speech to the Storting in June that aid cannot solve all problems; that aid is a small part of what creates development, and not one, decisive factor. That's a statement I agree to. What most hinders development and destroys society are wars and conflicts. In recent times, we have also seen the environmental threat. If, as part of the world community, we are to be able to contribute to the achievement of its Millennium Goals, we must also provide a substantial part of our assistance to ensure peace, stability and democratic development in all parts of the world. In particular, I would like to highlight three areas that I believe are of importance for Norwegian aid and development work. First of all, Norway must, together with the United Nations, help prevent war and stop acts of war where possible, i.e. continued commitment to peace mediation, reconciliation and conflict resolution. It is positive that the Council of State stressed so clearly that the use of military intervention must always be a last resort. It is the government’s policy that participation in military operations abroad should have a clear UN mandate, and the reason for our participation must be precisely to ensure that the inhabitants of these countries can live, work and cultivate the earth — live a normal life without fear of life and health or of arbitrary abuse. I therefore believe that civil assistance must always be our main track, so that in the situations where we also have to enter the military, we must follow up with a considerable civil effort. Here, the international community has a major challenge, for several of the poorest countries in need of our assistance are countries with unstable, undemocratic governments and with ongoing acts of war. This creates uncertainty for both the population and for the aid workers. It is important that we develop our strategies here in cooperation with both non-governmental organisations, UN organisations and others, so that there is a greater opportunity to provide effective assistance to the civilian population even while acts of war are taking place. Because we have experience that unilateral attempts to resolve such conflicts either with – or mainly with – military efforts do not lead to the desired outcome. Developments in Afghanistan are the most recent example of this. Secondly, we need to share our knowledge and experience so that we contribute to sustainable development. This applies in several areas. It concerns the establishment of democratic institutions, the fight against corruption, health prevention, sustainable exploitation and democratic management of natural resources – just to mention something. By sharing our knowledge in areas in which we are good, with developing countries, so that they can also be good in these areas, we will help to develop a more equivalent situation between the world's nations. It means sharing power, and it's important. Knowledge is the way that the more we divide it, the more it becomes. Finally, I would like to mention financial assistance, because it is also an important part of our efforts towards poor countries, in the form of debt relief – to which the Great Britain has for example contributed – to remedy acute need, to get local business going and to set various development programmes in motion. Several representatives in the debate have demonstrated this. Such programmes and efforts must take place in dialogue with the recipient countries. It is therefore important that the Soria Moria Declaration states that Norway should not provide assistance to programmes requiring liberalisation and privatisation against the wishes of the recipient country. I have just developed these three areas among many others, in order to provide assistance to developing countries and countries in crisis in such a way that they can develop sustainable societies themselves, is the whole difference in making these countries dependent on charities and showing international solidarity. Practicing international solidarity must be the long-term, overarching objective of Norwegian development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e771	This is an important debate for many reasons. It is about how we can participate and give more people in the poor part of the world development, and it is about developing countries being hit hardest by climate change, despite their barely contributing to some greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change is turning out unfairly. These are big questions, they're important. That's why we have to spend the big money on the big and important questions. The threat of global climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. The Christian People's Party welcomes the emphasis of the Council of State on the responsibility of Western countries for climate change. We have a special responsibility to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat the effects of climate change. The problem I think the Council of State is not taking seriously is the danger that the rich countries can start taking money from the aid budgets to solve global problems that they themselves have created, instead of using resources to help development, and to combat poverty. In today's newspapers, I can read that the Council of State believes the aid organisations customs when they set up environmental assistance for help to the poor. In my view, it would be a little too light to dismiss a real problem. Of course, many types of environmental assistance are important for poor people. But the Council of State must also see that it is not the poor in Africa that spew out the greenhouse gases. If aid is to be shifted from poor people in Africa to a resilient China to solve global climate problems, it is someone who loses support for its development – and it is the poorest. There is therefore reason to be cautious and conscious of the motives underlying a turn of development policy towards more climate and environment. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the strong emphasis of the Minister of Development on Norwegian self-interests, the opportunities for technology transfer and the one-sided focus on renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement and CO2 clean-up. A little over a year ago, the Environmental Development Action Plan was launched. It states that water, biodiversity and environmental pollutants are key areas of sustainable development. These areas were not mentioned in the presentation by the Council of State. Many may indicate that water resources have the power to create more and more regional conflicts than we have so far seen, as a result of climate change also affecting water resources. It may seem that the Council of State considers that the management of aid funds should take into account the interests of developing countries and, on the one hand, should distinguish between Norwegian industrial interests in the selection of aid measures and aid cooperation arrangements. The Council of State says that the Government is prepared to use assistance to contribute to emission reductions through technology transfer and industrial cooperation, including to countries that in and on their own do not have money problems. The Christian People's Party believes that the consequence of such a policy will be that aid is diverted from the poorest countries to a market with more purchasing power in it. I wonder, and ask questions as to whether this is not contrary to the general guidelines for Norwegian development policy established by the Stortinget i Innst. S. No 93 for 2004-2005, cf. St. Announcement No. 35 for 2003 2004, Joint fight against poverty. Finally, I would like to comment on the report by the Council of State on famines in Africa and agricultural aid. The Christian People's Party believes that the government's focus is too narrow, when the only thing mentioned in agricultural aid is the attempt by Yara to contribute to an African green revolution through fertilizer. The majority of the population of the poor developing countries is linked to the agricultural sector. Strengthening agriculture in developing countries is therefore important both for industrial development, public health and as a contribution to food security and the prevention of hunger disasters. Strengthening agriculture in developing countries is about giving people a better daily life. Norway must also use its influence to ensure that a greater share of multilateral assistance goes to agricultural development. The World Bank now takes self-criticism and recognises that agricultural development must be more central to the UN Millennium Goals on halving extreme poverty and hunger by 2015 if we are to achieve this goal. This provides a new opportunity to gain an international impact on increased agricultural aid — and Norway has to be a driver and guide by example.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e801	Roads are the way out of poverty, declared Tanzania's vice president at a conference I was given the opportunity to attend a few years ago. And the country's former transport minister, Anna Abdullah, followed this up in a later interview that I had with her where she said that the roads are the lifeblood of their society, because without roads, the country would have looked like a national park. Similarly, I have heard that leading Zambian politicians have expressed themselves. In countries like Tanzania and Zambia, a functioning road system is a matter of life and death, not just because traffic takes so many lives that it actually competes with malaria, HIV and AIDS to be the main cause of death, but because the roads are crucial for the transport of food from the countryside into the big cities, even in the rainy season. The road network is essential if rural people are to find a provision for their products and whether they live in cities are to have access to food. For us, this is quite obvious, although we may also complain about bad roads. But in countries that lack roads and means of transport, people become highly dependent on carrying goods to and from the market. Therefore, the ways are more for blessing than for destruction. This is why African politicians have to give priority to aid measures. Then they have also learned that the roads are actually an important source of economic growth, for example in Tanzania and Zambia, where a better functioning infrastructure receives much of the credit for the economic progress that has taken place in these countries. It is also another aspect of this that is very important, namely the fact that road construction is a labour-intensive production in such countries. Here the labour force is more reasonable than the machines. And in countries that understand how to set up and do not leave to the Chinese to expand all infrastructure, road construction is of great importance to employment. In countries where more than half the working population is out of work, this is of fundamental importance. Poor countries will never be able to get out of poverty if they can't create jobs for the population. It must also, in my opinion, be a key element of Norwegian aid policy. I therefore hope that the Norwegian authorities will not slow down their efforts in the infrastructure sector. Unfortunately, the World Bank has led many African countries to believe that international competitions for major infrastructure operations are a condition of the donor countries. And to some extent it has also been. On the Norwegian side, however, we have had the tradition of requiring local companies, with local labour force and labour-intensive production, to carry out their tasks. Also, because Norway has led in the fight against corruption in a sector that has been particularly plagued by this vessel, we can show a good deal of good results. Not everyone knows that Norway, for example, have contributed significantly to the development of a completely new and, in principle, non-corruption road administration in Tanzania. The main thing was then to give the employees a salary to live on. It is not surprising that corruption thrives when public officials have so low wages that they need an enterprise to have enough for their lives. This is how corruption is put into the system until greed takes over as the driving force at the top of the social pyramid. I would therefore like to underline the importance of institutional cooperation between Norwegian government agencies and similar agencies in developing countries. This is the development of institutions and democracy in countries that continue to live with the legacy of the European colonial regime in a dose of Eastern European state bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e816	Assistance is important. Norwegian aid contributes, inter alia, to: to reduce poverty, vaccination, disease control, education and infrastructure. These are also negative aspects of aid. Norwegian aid has disappeared, and is still disappearing, in corruption. Some projects have no or little impact, some even work against their purpose — fortunately, there were more such projects before now — and assistance can create addiction. Let me say, for the sake of order, that the positive aspects of aid far exceed the negative ones. Assistance is improved by clear objectives, control and follow-up. There is also one of the main reasons why the Right wants to focus assistance on fewer countries and regions, and especially on Africa. The right also wants fewer types of aid projects. Norway has a unique competence in hydropower, oil, and the management of a large wealth. Such competence is needed and needs to be disseminated. I have previously quoted Jeffrey Sachs, one of the world's leading macro-economic economists and head of the UN's millennial project. I'd love to do that again. He lists simple instruments to combat extreme poverty. These are – as the Council of State was also in it – fertilizers and seeds to increase crops, mosquito nets to prevent the spread of malaria, better access to clean water, increased focus on crops that can be sold on the international market, the delivery of food to schools and the introduction of new technologies, including mobile phones, which we all know have become very popular in a number of countries where there is little to see the technological revolution. Let me add a couple of other important tools for longer-term nation-building. Infrastructure – roads, on which the representative of Gullvåg was involved, rail and port – a functioning health system, education, a good governance, effective anti-corruption measures, democracy and, above all, respect for human rights. It is in all these areas that Norwegian aid must be concentrated. We all have a responsibility to ensure that Norwegian aid is as effective as possible. The debate on whether we reach the goal of 1 pst. GNI is a derailment of the desire for effective assistance. It is well possible that, even with less money than today, we can better help those who need it the most. The most important thing is not the number of dollars that are allocated, but how much we can get out of the money we're giving. Simply put, good projects deserve money, while bad projects do not. This means that the discussion on the 1 pst target must be turned to identify clear objectives for the assistance and good projects in order to achieve them. At the same time, it should mean that we also need much more assistance than today, but it must be directed at the projects. As I pointed out in the reply to Mr Nybakk's representative, budget support is a well-suited instrument for countries that have a transparent state power, which has control of corruption, and which has a democracy in which budget support does not reward one party in power, but the country, under democratic control. Respect for human rights is therefore also essential to provide budgetary support. I feel that the Council of State is looking for knowledge about Norwegian budget support, especially for Uganda. I feel that this is unusually positive. I think Norway has a long way to go if we lock ourselves in budgetary support for the Museveni regime for all eternity. Now may be the time to say that the country has moved far enough away from democracy and human rights. We should then slow down our assistance to the authorities, but not to individual projects. The head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is absolutely right when he says that we need legitimacy in the population to give, especially when we give over DKK 20 billion in international aid only in 2007. Legitimateness disappears rapidly through poor projects and corruption, and it is slowly being built with targeted, effective projects. Aid alone is not the solution. Aid must be combined with trade. It's only when people are permanently picked out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e837	From our own country, we know how important education has been to Norway’s development. The knowledge in the heads of the North is worth more than the oil and gas resources on the seabed. Without a high level of competence, we cannot use these resources — nor are we able to use cleaner forms of energy, such as energy. hydro power and solar energy. We've been able to forget that many of the world's poorest children don't get a school offer. Then it will be difficult for them to manage to work out of poverty. We also know that education for all is important for the good functioning of the People's Government – and as the Committee says in the vote: ‘To be able to read and write is important to counteract people’s abstinence, strengthen political participation, create an informed public and build a stronger democracy. From a gender perspective, it is not least important to ensure the right of girls and women to training in practice. Even in war and conflict situations, voluntary and international organisations demonstrate that much can be done to provide children with basic education, which may also be important in creating hope and building a peaceful future.’ I am therefore not so surprised that the red-green government did not include education as one of its priority areas in development policy. The Christian People's Party has been among those who have asked critical questions, as not least the leader of the Red Children has done. Why does the government not want to give priority to education as high as the Bondevik government did? I was not completely reassured by the somewhat unclear response of the State Council of Solheim – whether education is actually just as high as it was before. That's why I was glad when I saw that a unanimous foreign committee has now determined that education should remain as high as the priority given to education in the announcement by former State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson, the Joint Fight against Poverty, and in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee on it. Yesterday, a new letter came from Red Children to the Foreign Affairs Committee of Stortinge. Alarming allegations were made that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is about to cut out aid programmes in the school sector in several of Norway’s co-operation countries. This would be totally contrary to what the Foreign Affairs Committee now unanimously says, that education should be given equal priority. The Committee even asks the Government to submit proposals for strengthening training assistance in order to achieve the Millennium Goals in this area. As examples, Redd Barna mentions that through their contacts they learn that the Norwegian Embassy in Zambia ‘is under pressure from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to cut off direct sector support for education’. Also in another co-operation country, Uganda, they claim that purely educational measures are in the process of being squandered. In the state budget, there is further notice of some phase-out of aid to Angola, and I ask: does it mean a phase-out of education aid to the country? If that is the case, it is quite serious – and quite contrary to what the Foreign Affairs Committee is now agreeing on. I therefore ask that Minister for the Environment and Development, Solheim, clarify this matter and ensure that education aid should not be weakened. He must then clearly take over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' management of the business plans, whether to attach trust to what Redd Barna here says. For the Christian People's Party, it is clear that Norway needs to invest even more strongly in contributing to the achievement of the UN's Millennium Goal on Education for All by 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e874	In my opinion, the foreign policy distribution Stortinget got on for the summer, focused on a great many challenges, but also on opportunities – and gave a good description of how there are many places. The goal must be clear. Self-help is and will be the best assistance that can be given to the community. In this respect, the proposal currently in the budget to extend the GSP scheme to 14 new countries – without Swaziland being included. Swaziland is in a 146th place in the Human Welfare Index. In comparison, MUL countries like Lesotho come in 149th place, Botswana in 131th place, and Namibia in 125th place. So Swaziland is worse off than most, but it's not on the list of countries we have MUL imports from. Swaziland is the second poorest country in the SACU free trade area in the 2003 statistics, on which these parameters are based. And all arrows point in the wrong direction after that time. There's a lot of reasons for that. Dry, power-feed prices and other things make people live in lean anguish rather than sell. But the biggest challenge facing the country is the HIV/AIDS problem, which has exploded. The Minister of Health informed that 42 p.m. of the population of 1 million were infected. Based on unofficial numbers, 67 pst was. the infection, and all were some that the top was not reached. Lifetime was 20 years ago 60 years ago, today he is 31 years old. Where grandmothers were found, they were responsible for the grandchildren. Parents were either dying or gone. 100 000 – 10 pst. – orphans had to give priority to getting food in front of school. It's a small country in terms of area and population, but with challenges we can barely understand. But they didn't primarily ask for ordinary assistance, they asked to trade with Norway, for example. with agricultural product. They wanted to manage themselves – mainly trade beef, which we need to import today to meet the demand we have. And the nice thing was, there was no multinational company inside the image and the "scummy flute". Income goes and wants to go to the many small producers, and gives badly needed money to the grandmothers, such as their mothers. Want to buy a schooling space for their grandchildren – give them the possibility of a better life, if they grow up. I see that the Committee calls for greater focus on just the meaning of agriculture, and I am pleased about it. I think a lot of solutions can be found if a focus on what I'm built into is the most important thing, first. We saw that they lack knowledge of breeding animals for maximum yield. That most of them didn't have power, we also saw. That water shortage and clean water were scarce in most, just as they were. But it was subordinate to them. Having thwarted was the bank; it gave them security of outcome, yet so long. Here, Norway can have a unique chance to give a handshake to a hard-tested people, by expanding the number of ‘new’ countries – if you can say so – to trade with them from 14 to 15. I hope that this ‘testimony’ can help to make it possible in the year’s budgetary remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e895	The approach focuses to a very large extent on maintaining the main priorities of Norwegian aid policy. I would like to focus my intervention on the main problem of aid and development in many of the developing countries, namely corruption – not the corruption that is just random, such as. is that prime ministers and presidents put money in their pocket, send it to their own accounts in other countries, etc., as the Council of State said, but the systematic corruption that lies in the system, which means that the money does not come out, at least not to a sufficient degree, to those to be helped and that makes the economic system malfunction. The Council of States’ ‘useful thinking’, as he mentioned in his statement now and in the presentation, in the selection of new areas of assistance and new countries of assistance, does not seem to me to have been based on seeking countries with low levels of corruption, good governance and the functioning of the economy. One might be excited about the reorientation of Latin American regimes. In Latin America, the rhetorical tradition is too high – what we call Norwegian – for cigars, where content and implementation are not always related to the strength and imaginativeness of rhetoric. Looking at these regimes from where corruption is low, might have given some other result than what the Council of State expressed in its enthusiasm for, among other things. regimes in Latin America. The systematic corruption has been repeatedly exposed to the National Audit Office’s searchlight. The latest report of the National Audit Office for 2006 points out that, in countries such as Zambia, Malawi and Mozambique, ‘defects related to the management of the embassies by the Department’ for the purposes of ‘reporting suspicions of corruption and maladministration’. It is not a new criticism, but it should be taken seriously despite the fact that it has also affected previous governments and former state councils. Uganda has been mentioned, but this applies to countries with problems that go beyond Uganda’s problems — countries that are increasingly characterised by a single regime. In Zambia, Malawi and Mozambique, therefore, this criticism also emerges. My impression is – not from what the Council of State has said in this debate, because it does not give me any basis at all, but from the Ministry's response to the Riksrevision – that this criticism is not taken seriously enough. There are good intentions and objectives to avoid corruption, but concrete measures are lacking. Let me put it this way: the countries this is about, I don't think a Norwegian criticism is serious until that criticism materializes in that budget support is limited or stopped altogether. In Tanzania, too, the Riksrevision has said that it will stress that corruption still seems to be a problem, and that ‘the will of the regime to fight corruption is somewhat mixed’. This is a relatively strong expression on the part of the Riksrevision, perhaps not in the main hall of the day, but it is an expression of the existence of corruption and of the systemicisation of corruption. When corruption is not adequately controlled by those who rule, not verbally, not in large terms – for at conferences they all agree – but in practice and in their own country through concrete measures, it is simply not possible to combat it. I also think it is important to take seriously the criticisms made by the Riksrevision in the report against the use of funds following the flood disaster in Southeast Asia. There was a broad agreement that the billion was granted, and we all hope that it came out – but the Riksrevision says that we do not know that. It is a bit serious that the organisations do not have the capacity to tell and document what they have done with the funds that came in. Finally, just a few good advice to the Council of State, and they are – frankly – well-intentioned. When many have wondered whether the Council of State will follow up the setting, it is common in Stortingen that the Council of State says that you want to follow up the setting. It's very common to do it -- to say it like this. It has something to do with parliamentary control and reaction. The other thing is -- not humorous, but maybe a little bit more on the other track -- that if the Council of State thinks that Zambia gets too little out of its copper, with 3-5 pst. Of the state budget, a well-informed Zambian might say: How much is the rule of action in Norway? Is not that between 3 and 5 pst. by the oil fund, also called the Pension Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e912	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e915	Just a few comments on a few things that have been up in the debate. The first is the question of budget support, which the representative Gitmark has now raised twice. I would like to stress strongly that when we provide budgetary support, we take on the basis of development-promoting policies in each beneficiary country, i.e. budget support is actually used for welfare measures, such as infrastructure, schools, health, etc. In Mozambique, I have seen for myself that this works very well, and the money is ploughed into welfare measures. Since Gitmark mentioned Uganda, it may also be important to be aware that the budget support for Uganda is earmarked for the Poverty Action Fund, which goes to health, education and agriculture, i.e. it is not general. Then there have been claims – especially from the representative Sahl – that education has been neglected in the two years we have had a red-green government. That's not true. The actual numbers say something else. Although education is not listed in the four areas of activity, it does not mean that there is no focus on education. In fact, the current government spends more on educational projects than the previous government did. Education is also integrated into all four areas of activity – just think about how much education is in the women's action plan! It is precisely girls who have to be the main goal of investing in education in developing countries. I myself was at the United Nations 51st Women's Conference in February, and there was the theme of girls, i.e. girls, and education was among the most important issues raised, to ensure the development of women. It is also the case that we give priority to school and education in the countries in which we conduct peace and reconciliation, and here perhaps Afghanistan is one of the most important countries. When the Committee met yesterday with both the Minister of Education from Afghanistan and women activists, there was no doubt how grateful these were for the support that Afghanistan is today getting to develop schools, not least schools for girls. So: I have great respect for the projects that Red Barna has. But it is now time that aid for education in our countries of cooperation is actually also channelled through other organisations and channels than through Redd Barna both in terms of bilateral support, and, not least, through the United Nations system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e926	A lot has been recorded. I will try briefly to answer as much as possible. To start with Per-Kristian Foss: To follow what the Storting says in its settings is a matter of course for this government. And if it's necessary to say that, I'd like to say that, of course we'll do that. Combating corruption is incredibly important. The main problem of corruption is that corruption lubricates the political machinery itself in many countries, which is why it is not easy for political leaders to get out of corruption. But if there is any corruption measure that some representative in this room knows about, and that matters, and that this government does not follow up, I want to hear about it. Anti-corruption is one of the most important issues. Sigrun Eng picked up Swaziland. Let's think about what we're doing there. But, of course, Norway is having to go into more and more countries. Jan Sahl took up education. So we're spending more on education than the previous government. But of course, if we're going to significantly increase our efforts when, for example. on the environment, the relative share of education may not rise year by year. Then Steinar Gullvåg took up road development. It is very central and is emphasised by a number of African leaders, but again there is a question of what Norway should do versus what other multilateral and bilateral donors should do. That's of the things we have to look at in the development message that we're presenting to the Storting. Peter Skovholt Gitmark took up a lot, among others. Uganda. Let me say that we are now in very close dialogue with other donors in Uganda to see what we can do to help promote human rights in the country. Uganda was, of course, the great development success in Africa in the 1980s and 1990s, but of course it is also true that if President Museveni decides to cling to power more or less democratically for many, many years to come, it will hardly contribute to the necessary development in Uganda. In Africa, there are a lot of examples of leaders starting well, but when you sit for decades after decades, it slows down a lot. Line Henriette Holten Heimdal said one thing I very much agree with, and one thing I disagree with. I very much agree that we must pay attention to the fact that the great climate virtue into which the world is going to go must not go at the expense of aid to the poorest. It's a real problem, taken up by many of the aid organisations. There's not one thing these organizations have said to Dagbladet in the last few days, which I don't agree with a hundred percent. That the newspaper later as if we disagree is another matter. It's part of the normal tabloid game. But all they're saying is that there's a real danger, I totally agree. On the other hand, I do not agree that Norway should not bet where we have a special advantage. We are one small player, the Norwegian contributions internationally are a few percent of all the world's assistance, and developing countries are also interested in the best technical assistance. That we bet there we have something particularly professional to contribute, such as. in hydropower and solar power, could not possibly be wrong. This is precisely what developing countries are asking for. Other countries will then be able to contribute skills and knowledge in areas where we do not have it. I'll have to redraw to comment on the very last ones that I didn't get.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e949	Let me first thank you for a good debate, which has contributed to anchoring in the main hall the broad consensus shown in the vote. I am also pleased with the clarification given by the Council of State. It should be unnecessary, but after the rounds we've had earlier today, it was important that he assured him that he would follow up the position, which means a focus on the UN's Millennium Goals, poverty orientation, concentration not least on Africa, and where education and health are priority objectives and themes in the aid. The representative of Marit Nybakk made a point that it is wrong to weaken the priority of education in the aid. I think it depends a little on the eyes that see, and in what relationships you evaluate it. However, when the previously mentioned letter to the Foreign Affairs Committee shows that both Zambia, Uganda and other countries of the aid organisations are perceived as having reduced education, there are serious signals that the Council of State must take back to the Ministry and find out what is and follow up, so that what is in the position – namely that the Committee asks the Government to ‘make proposals on how Norway can contribute to the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals’ – is followed up in practice in the extreme, in embassies and in the bodies with which Norway cooperates in order to implement its policies. It is important for confidence in development policy that we have an offensive response to corruption, quality assurance, evaluation and follow-up of aid projects. I think it has been strongly underlined, and I will give my clear support to it. However, it is also important for the entire sector’s confidence in the governance of development policy that the guidelines laid down by the Stortinge are followed up in practice. On the basis of this debate, I am confident that this will happen. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will follow this up by coming crossroads, both when we deal with the development budget, and when it comes to other issues related to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e958	In a debate where it has been said so much good and sensible, I think everyone deserves a response, and therefore I finally signed up. The representative, Ellen Samuelsen, who has practical peace experience monitoring in Sri Lanka, noted the fundamental and decisive nature of peace for development. There's something I think this hall completely agrees with. But it's also one of the political leaders that's going to achieve the Millennium Goals. If we do not contribute to peace, we do not contribute to the Millennium Goals. The representative Kari Lise Holmberg took up the link between migration and development. It's a very central relationship. We've created our own project to look at it. Immigrants return to their countries of origin much more than those provided in assistance. This is another example of how we need to look at how aid can contribute to the correctness of the big money flows in the world. So big money flows mean things like resource income, corruption, but also the positive, that immigrates money flow home. Among other things, we have See if we can reduce the large fees that many immigrants pay to get money back to their countries of origin, so that more of the money goes to development where they are going. It's great that voluntary organisations are engaged in a country like Congo-Brazzaville, which is a country with very little state intervention in Norway, because it falls outside the countries it's quite natural for us to engage in. The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal took up the use of the tsunami money in an affordable way. First of all, this money has gone mainly through the large voluntary Norwegian organisations, which are the ones that the Progress Party is also repeatedly telling us to give money through. Some of them have not been good enough to report. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has certainly not been good enough to ask for and require these reports. This is self-criticism, and we're going to tighten it up. There is no reason to believe that any of the money has gone astray, is abused, that there has been corruption or such things – although, of course, you can never exclude it by a hundred percent. But as long as the reporting is not good enough and we don't know what the money has gone to, this just needs to be tightened up. I believe that on these points the Government must be completely merciless. As far as AIDS medicine is concerned, I have asked for a report on that project. If, as it has been claimed in the media, some of this is directly negative, it is obviously harmful, and then it has to be stopped. If the question is whether you're not as quick as you had hoped, you've managed to develop a medicine, I think we need to have some patience. It takes time to develop drugs, and we have to be patient in that area. Finally, Mr Højbrätten: Africa is by no means neglected; this is a myth that is created because we have done something in Latin America as well. Our country tried to see where I had traveled in the last two years, and found out that it was almost only in Africa. A little effort in Latin America is not at the expense of Africa. What we reach, among other things, is to reduce in some of the countries of Asia that have been so successful economically. For example, Vietnam is such an economic success, and in terms of poverty reduction, that we can step down traditional aid there and thus get more room for Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e974	Governments challenge the parties and representatives of the Storting to come up with good ideas for the fight against corruption. Now, however, it is in our state constitution that it is up to the Government to find the good measures. The Storting has one control body for the use of money, and that's the Riksrevision. So the answer to the Council of State's action in relation to anti-corruption will be obtained from the Stortinget in the examination of Document No. 1 on the audit of the accounts for 2007. In this case, the answer will be that all comments on the lack of action to combat corruption have been removed. It's a very simple test, and so the test is in the state council's current year using unaided equipment. Finally, the following about the situation in Uganda: the Council of State spoke of presidents who remain ten years after decades without being elected. I think maybe it's stretching it a little bit, to say it like this. A president who repeals the Constitution in order to be re-elected without releasing other parties to it is certainly sufficiently characteristic of a regime that has lost any contact with democratic ideas. Also, Museveni's fight against the Supreme Court and the entire judiciary in his own country should perhaps be a small sign that something is not quite as it should be in terms of trust in the country's government and the use of money as they should. It is not enough, as the Council of State said – not enough about non-governmental organisations – that there is no reason to believe that the money has been misused. No, but there's no reason to determine the opposite either. The National Audit Office's claim is that there must be evidence that the money is actually used for what they are intended to do, not that you have no reason to believe otherwise. Faith holds little in the audit of public accounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e981	The fight against corruption is, in fact, two slightly separate policy areas. One is to ensure that all Norwegian assistance, every single penny paid by Norwegian taxpayers through the state, or every single penny that the people of Norway contribute to the Church's Emergency Aid, the Red Barna or the Red Cross, comes to what is meant. There we're going to have the strictest standards, we're going to do what's in our power to ensure that, we're going to hit hard on all of these abuses, and we're going to put forward new measures to make it even safer in the future. Any criticism from the Riksrevision we shall immediately follow up. But then there is another and larger and more difficult field – and that is what the representative Foss was about – namely how corruption is part of the economic governance system in many countries. It is a huge problem in many places that political leaders fill their own wallets or accounts in Cayman Island, Bermuda or wherever it may be, with money that they have stolen from their people. But an even bigger problem than that is that corruption is often the very basis of power. It has been shown in retrospect that, for example: one of Africa’s most despised leaders, President Mobutu in Congo — or Zaire as it was then hot — well acquired some castles and some properties abroad, but most of the money was used to buy political support. He did not kill his opponents, but bought them up. It's expensive. In addition, he had to buy his trailers, he could not just buy his opponents. The whole apparatus of power went to keep such a flow of money floating in its own country, to keep itself on top of it. This is the extreme, but it is clear that in many countries political leaders depend on being able to spend money on their part of the country, on their peoples, on those who have voted on them, or on those who could potentially vote on them at the next elections – corruption is thus a fundamental feature of the whole political system. The tendency is that corruption goes down into all of the terms. You have to bribe the teachers to get training for your children, you have to bribe the passport office to get passports if you want to travel abroad, you have to bribe the police if you get into a traffic control and have driven too fast, because it is much cheaper to bribe than to pay the fine, etc., etc. This penetration of corruption across society, and where the political apparatus is the most corrupt, is a fundamental problem. It varies greatly, in some places it's huge, in other places you have elements of it. Of course, it really helps if those who sit on top want to fight it. That is why it is so important – and then we are back to what Morten Höglund started with – to give support to political leaders who are trying to reform their countries away from this. But even they have huge difficulties, such as: Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, Liberia.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e992	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 515]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1008	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1015	The representative proposal of Solberg, Wohnning, Sjøli and Engeset calls on the Government to investigate and propose ways in which the person carrying out the necessary care tasks for his or her loved ones can be guaranteed the right to freedom from work and, in addition, to secure income for his or her living. I am very pleased that we can deal with this matter in the certainty that the proposals that are being addressed are already under investigation in the Government. As the Council of State refers to in its letter to the Labour and Social Committee, the working group which has considered the issues has already given its opinion. Now the department's follow-up to the case remains. We need to offer professionals who, over a limited period of time, take on heavy care tasks for close relatives, better arrangements than those in today's system. Among other things, the Cancer Association has been leading this case and has been able to document the difficulties many face when their closest ports are in a severe disease course. Many will not even feel that they are facing choices in such a situation. They must let the consideration of their closest come first. Primary doctors are among those who most strongly support changes in today’s legislation, because they refer to sick messages that are more justified on the part of relatives than in the sick, stress and psychological stress caused by a life-threatening disease in one’s immediate seas can be pathogenic. Today's legislation on leave and financial compensation in the case of care and care for close relatives distinguishes care for children under 18 years of age from close to those over 18. The working group has assessed the need for changes in the leave provisions with a view to facilitating the combination of work with care for older and younger family members who need care and practical assistance due to disability, sickness, etc. The Committee states in its opinion that it is important to assess whether the age gap in today’s legislation and the resulting differences in leave and social benefits are appropriate to the challenges related to meetings when they have to take on exceptional care tasks. I hope that, for the future, we can develop schemes that eliminate this age gap by taking care of the seriously ill. The Cancer Association argues that in situations of serious illness of one's closest, care responsibilities arise that are difficult to replace by external assistance. I share this perception. There is no need to talk about full-time and long-term leave from work, but about opportunities for flexibility, so that one can follow the sick when the situation requires it the most. I know that relatives have experienced the practice of today's legislation for children under 18 years of age as well in this context, by agreeing on flexibility in the combination of work and leave with social security suspension. The representative's proposal raises an important issue which is well-lit through the input we have received and which has also been taken care of through the work that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has started. We attend to the follow-up of the government, and as is also evident from the committee's position, we stress that a new regulation will be easy to deal with for the relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1034	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a neat and straightforward presentation of the case. But since, after all, it's Right's suggestion, I feel the need to keep a brief post. Public health and care are responsible for ensuring that all those in need receive the necessary health care, care and assistance. When we are affected by illness and disability, however, the care and care of those closest to us is particularly important and valuable. In many cases, care, care and support from the nearest may be essential for the mastery of the sufferer of the disease. In some cases, relatives may need to get away from work in order to take care of their loved ones for shorter or longer periods. The Working Environment Act provides a limited right of leave for up to 20 days in the context of care for relatives at the end of life. Care for sick children entitles them to leave. For other care activities, there is no statutory right to welfare leave. For those who have a sick relative who needs care and care, it will be right and natural to get away from work to contribute. However, this creates problems with the employer and often creates considerable added stress in a difficult life situation. The current arrangements do not provide sufficient security of income protection in the event of loss of income arising from care activities. Family and other relatives make significant efforts both for their families and for society. This is the back cover of the Right-wing Representative's proposal. Care should not be kept. People who need assistance to cope with their everyday lives need a decent service of good quality. At the same time, there is no doubt that the relatives are particularly important. The public can never and should never replace the care and care of those close to it. The voluntary involvement in the work of others also has a high self-value. Our proposal for a representative consists of two proposals. Firstly, we ask the Government to examine in detail and to make proposals on how the person who carries out the necessary care tasks for his or her loved ones can be guaranteed the right to freedom from work. Secondly, we ask the Government to investigate and propose how those who carry out the necessary care work can be secured income for their livelihood. Greater efforts must be made to improve the ability of persons involved in the labour market to combine work with care for their immediate loved ones. This means that leave schemes and income insurance schemes also need to be developed in such a way that it is possible. Of course, I am satisfied with what I see as consensus in the committee and support from all the other parties, including the government parties, for the intentions of the Right proposal. I am also pleased that the department is doing this work and that there will be a matter for the Stortinget about this. When the Government subsequently returns to Stortinget with a follow-up to the report of the inter-ministerial working party, it is our expectation that the intentions of our proposal will be taken into account and followed up, as the other opposition parties have also given their support. I look forward to the Storting getting a new opportunity to discuss these questions on an even better basis. Of course, we hope for cross-political support, so that the care pay schemes make it easier than they do today, for those who want to take care of their sick at home for shorter or longer periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1053	I just need to add a little bit about the context in which I think we are going to see this work that the Government is now doing. We want a high level of professional participation among the population of Norway, both in women and men. There is a very great need for everyone who can take part in the work. It is then to have leave arrangements related to serious illness that allow you to meet some very fundamental needs of your life, an important part of it. The experience — at least some of those I have been introduced to — is that the burden of having very ill family members and not being able to get the necessary leave of work often results in ‘unhealthy’ in others. Many people may thus be at risk of getting out of work permanently. In this sense, there are many considerations to be taken into account. Nevertheless, most care activities in Norway are carried out by the family — this is the case! I think what Engeset says is absolutely right – that most people want it. I also think that if the family can be well involved in supporting the individual who is ill, it often leads to a much better result for all parties than if you are kept on the sideline and just have to do other tasks. So having arrangements that help families in the hard days of life, I think that means an infinite amount to the quality of life for the individual and for the families, but it also means a lot to how we make sure that the most important resource we have in Norway, namely the workforce, can stay and survive when we know how life goes with a lot. So it's probably like today that a lot of people in these situations get sick. I think that's a reality we have to see in our eyes. In this system, a lot of money is actually spent without being identified with these schemes. I need to say that we have to look at when we're going to figure out how much such schemes cost. But in the meantime, at least my attitude is that the individual doesn't have to have a bad conscience in that sense, because this is actually necessary, and no one knows how sick you get if you can't get to take their very closest into account when you're in such a situation. Lack of medical attention may result in a much more long-term and serious medical report; it has to be taken into account by the primary doctor. I actually trust that the doctors today are able to assess this as well. The practice that some of them follow in such serious cases, I believe, may be within what is also acceptable today, precisely because caregivers very easily end up with disease, if they cannot discharge their obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1064	There are many family members who make a great effort for their neighbors who are affected by disease. Several of these try to combine working life and family life. Some experience that it becomes too difficult — at least for a period — and feel compelled to ask for medical attention on an unfair basis to address the economic challenges. The right-wing proposers shall be praised for wanting to rectify this. At the same time, the schemes that give better rights to leave in care tasks want. The Christian People's Party also wants everyone who undertakes care tasks to have the opportunity to take a break from work, and that there is financial compensation for it. There are now several schemes that are of great help to caregivers, whether to sick children, to disabled children or to close relatives in the final phase of life. In the Action Plan for families with disabled children, from the Bondevik II Government, it was proposed that a co-ordination of care, relief and care pay should be assessed. I understood it so that today's government continues this work. Such simplification may facilitate both the administration and the receipt of such benefits. I expect this to be assessed in the inter-ministerial working group which is now examining the need for changes in leave and which will also present alternative proposals for changes to current financial compensation schemes for care. The Christian People's Party looks forward to the investigation and is excited about the result. We also think it is good that a person assesses the need for both short-term and longer-term leave due to care tasks. The Christian People's Party also supports the need to make it easier to combine work and care. Consideration should be given to how a better way of enabling families to share the burden with the public so as to allow for a few small breathing rooms and a little leisure time. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a look at the legislation on leave and financial compensation for parents caring for children over and under 18 years of age. In the past, we have arranged that those who receive care pay are unloaders or are support contacts, must have the right to holiday pay. We'll get back to that on a later occasion. I would like to remind you that even self-employed people can have sick children. Many women find it difficult to start their own business in combination with family because the costs are too high if they have to be home for a time to care for sick children or close relatives. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we have corrected this. We provide full equality between self-employed and other workers in terms of maternity benefits and care benefits. We also reverse the increase in the social security tax proposed by the Government in order to achieve this. It should be fully in line with the proposers of today's Document No. 8 proposals which consider that ‘such welfare reform should be financed through public welfare schemes’. I look forward to a new case from the Government that offers equal opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1092	In so far as this case has many similarities with a case the Left promoted in ours, to pay care to relatives of disabled children. This proposal also provides for a care allowance to be paid to relatives from whom it is possible to live. We have all the stories about people we know who are struggling in everyday life and almost giving up, because the care tasks are getting too big for them. We realize that there are many who are struggling in society in different ways, and that there are many who could have earned their wages for the care they do. Nursing pay is a system that is in use, but surveys that have been carried out indicate that it is becoming less and less used in many places. This may indicate that not so many are aware of the existence of the scheme. Someone I talked to actually thought that they were entitled to a care allowance. They sought, but they were refused. There are also very different levels of pay for care, and many receive a discount. For the Left, it is always a point to find solutions that are good for the individual and for the individual family, in the least bureaucratic way possible. For those who wish to do so, good arrangements should be made. The arrangements, of course, should not delay the establishment of good institutions or other organised offers. It is important that the scheme is as gender-neutral as possible, so that it can benefit as much as possible. Such an arrangement will also make everyday life easier for the relatives. I expect the intentions of the proposal to be taken care of when the Government returns with its follow-up to the report of the working party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1105	Just a few brief notes from my side. Let me first say that of course I have noticed the great commitment that is about these questions in the Storting. I notice that the exposure is equal both in the opposition and in the position. Then I just want to confirm very briefly that we have now received this report in the department from what is then a nice name for an interministerial working group, that is, that there are people from several departments who sit and think. We're now looking at it, and I'm asking for an understanding that I can't now explain the whole of it. I just want to say that we already clearly see that some suggestions we will follow up immediately. We will send proposals for legislative changes in consultation already to spring. That means, of course, that when the hearing is over, we have to come to Stortinget with a legislative proposal. Then, of course, the Stortinget and the Committee will have the opportunity to look at parts of this immediately. At the same time, it is important to stress, and I think everyone is aware that some of the proposals in question are obviously going to involve considerable costs. They want proceeds. We can be positive about the proposals, but we have to be able to finance the consequences of them. So we can't help but see these in budgetary terms. I think that there is also a great deal of understanding about this in the Chamber. That means we'll be able to handle something quickly, make clear improvements quickly. Other things we'll have to spend more time on. But as I said, the commitment that is in the committee and in the hall makes impressions, and provides the basis for putting great emphasis on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1116	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see 515]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1133	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see 515]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1141	The size should now vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1179	The vote will take place on proposals from the Party of Advancement and the Right sent by the meeting of the Odelstingen on 18 October 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size refers to the proposed change in § 5A-1, paragraph. a, whether the assessment of performance and asks the Government to ensure that everyone receiving financial social assistance is subject to such an assessment, so that an early stage of a social welfare programme can put in place appropriate measures to help people to be self-held.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15.ana.ud2326e1201	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
