ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e24	The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e27	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Gunvald Ludvigsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to appoint a commission to review murder cases with a background in violence in close relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e32	The representative Per Sandberg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e35	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Arne Sortevik and myself, it is a pleasure and with great expectations that I propose the reorganisation of the railway station to state companies to ensure predictable and long-term financing for the necessary upgrading and expansion of existing rail networks in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e40	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e64	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Kristin HalvorsenErik SolheimSylvia Brustad The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main question, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e83	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Health and Care. We have recently seen many examples of the failure of elderly care in Norwegian municipalities to function properly. We have a number of examples that can be mentioned here and that have been up in the past. Every time you deal with these matters, you get the answer that this is the responsibility of the municipalities, and that the government has made sure that the local government sector has received very many billions of dollars. It must be said that a new record has been set in the municipality of Sula. An elderly centre was opened on Friday, and on Tuesday the Councillor said in his draft budget that this centre should be closed, possibly reducing other measures in the care sector to finance the municipal budget. This is very serious, and it is a major problem for the municipalities. I have the following questions to the Council of State: Why is it that the reality of what is available to care for the elderly in the municipalities is so much different from what government members say? With regard to the many new billions referred to, the municipalities do not seem to have access to the same billions that the government claims it is administering. Can the Council of State provide a justification for this? Furthermore, I have the following questions: why can’t it be that the elderly care system is also willing to look at the funding system? Why is it that it is always said that the funding system should remain firm – we want to try to patch up an already existing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e96	Let me first say that some of the things that have been revealed through the media this past week that older people are placed in stock, in trim rooms, etc., are unworthy, and that is usually unacceptable. I think it gets even worse when it's actually so that there's free space in the same institution. I understand this is now being corrected, and it should just be missing! When it comes to what the government is doing generally in relation to the care of the elderly, this government said one thing very clearly when we took over the government, and it was that we would stop giving tax relief to the richest people in the country, because we would rather strengthen the community solutions. Some of those Community solutions are not least in the municipalities, not least with regard to the elderly, and therefore, as far as we have been responsible, we have strengthened the local economy. In fact, it is proven that very much of that money – fortunately – has benefited the elderly. But we're going on, because if much is good, it's not all good. That means we have to do a lot more with content, quality and competence, but we also have to build more places. This is why the next year, known to the representative, the Government proposes a new earmarked grant to build more hospitals and nursing homes for which there is a very great need. When older people need the care and care of their luck, they have the right to do so, and then it is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure it, either at home, at home or in nursing homes. Nor will I rule out the need to clarify the law we have, to an even greater extent, and that is why the Government is now also working on a new, common health and social law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e107	Now we heard the same answer phrase that you often hear. Then I ask myself the question: why should it be different when, among other things. is the financing of the nursery sector, except in the case of funding for the care sector, in order to enable sick people to have the right to a place where they actually need it? Now it is the case – at least as far as you can see in the media – that, at the hearing, you send a proposal that you should have a legal right to kindergarten. I have not seen a single place where the Minister of Health has taken the initiative of earmarked grants in the care of the elderly for a legally binding right, so that if you need a place of residence, you should have it. Because this is where the local economy actually comes in, and you don't have the good rights to get it when you need it. I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Health the following questions: Will the Minister of Health and Health now at least take an initiative to ensure that all the municipalities in this country have a proper list showing how many people in each municipality need a health home?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e116	At their best discretion, the county officials carried out a review prior to the government's provision of care, of the needs of nursing homes and nursing homes. That is why the Government has proposed that around 12,000 more such sites should be built by 2015, and we are going to follow that development closely. So that's not what the representative Nesvik says, that we just respond with phrases. No, we're doing something. We're doing a lot on this sector. I have said very clearly that older people who need good luck and care have the right to have it after today's law. I have also said very clearly on behalf of the Government: we want to make it even clearer. But we're doing even more because we're giving money. Unlike the government that the representative of Nesvik and his party supported, we have indicated a completely different direction in terms of money to the municipalities, and it is actually those who have to give the offer to each of the municipalities. That's why the local economy is so important. And it's not right, as the representative Nesvik says, that we don't label grants. Well, we're just proposing our own earmarked grant to build more places from next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e125	There will be four follow-up questions – first No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e128	I would assume that the debate on local economy, fiscal policy and funding systems is of little joy to the elderly of those who have urgent needs here and now. That is why I would like to ask a very specific question. We know that there is one doctor per day. 180 nursing homes in Norway. There is one doctor for every other patient in general hospitals. So far, the Council of State has come up with no other answer to this than to put the youngest and most inexperienced doctors to take responsibility for the oldest and most difficult patients. Will the Council of State take an initiative in relation to the Municipal Councils' Central Associations to organise pay and working conditions for doctors in hospitals, so that it is almost the same as the career you can count on if you choose to work in high-specialised hospitals? Actually, you should go a lot further and make it more attractive, but it could be a beginning to equate the two.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e135	I fully agree with the representative for Wage that it is a great challenge to get enough doctors for our infirmary. There is no doubt that when the situation is such that about 80 pst. of our users who currently live in hospitals, are demented and on average have between six and seven different diagnoses, more trained personnel are needed, not least doctors. That's also why the government has proposed that we increase the effort in terms of doctors, by over 50 pst. in a short time. So there's several ways to do it. We have a close dialogue with the KS and the Medical Association about this, and we are going to have more meetings, but I believe that the proposal, which I understand the representative's salary, that we impose on doctors who are on tour, also to have practice at the hospital, is one of several tools to get more doctors to apply for a job at the hospital afterwards. When it comes to the question of pay terms, the representative knows very well that we are not the ones who decide here. At least the government doesn't want to mean strong things about it. There is an issue between the social partners. But what we're concerned about is seaworthy framework conditions for others, which are working conditions, guidance, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e145	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e148	In recent weeks, I have also received several enquiries from different municipalities about reducing the provision of health care to the elderly, and about reductions in some nursing homes. It worries me, because there are the sickest elderly people this will go wrong. The sickest elderly have between six and seven diagnoses each, and they need highly skilled personnel. At the same time, 300 municipalities in Norway lack skills plans to solve the problem of qualified staff. And only one in five municipalities at all have any thoughts about how this is going to be done. There is a need to set concrete targets, in my view, for solving the competence problem in hospitals and in home care. The Council of State refers to new annual works in the municipalities. How many of these will be qualified, and how will the Council of State ensure that these new skills posts meet the sickest of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e155	This government promised that we would get 10,000 new annual works into this sector during 2009. The numbers that we have so far show that, if nothing really happens, we're probably going to over-achieve that goal. We've said one thing that's also very important, and that's that it's essentially going to be with education. It's precisely from the things the representative Davøy here describes. We've said very clearly that we want to educate even more. We want to specifically qualify 12,000 of those who are already in the sector, for example. to become a skilled worker, because we need many more skilled workers, nurses and doctors in this sector. The representative Davøy, who represents the Christian People's Party, and the government parties are now also in a dialogue on how we can make this even more concrete, and where all the other parties are invited. I have expectations that through that cooperation, we will also come up with even more concrete things in terms of skills, for the sickest of the elderly in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e162	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e165	After all, the crisis in the care of the elderly has been constantly being felt in recent times, and the Council of State itself has been involved in this before. Extra evil is when we don't really have patient rooms in some places, but the municipalities can't afford to use them, and there are no people. It is a challenge to provide enough staff for the elderly. I just want to make it clear that the Left does not believe that earring and legalizing are a salivating thing to do to get a shiny old-age care. We've labeled the babysitting, which I think is a good example that there might be too much ear marking, and then, as we've seen now, the care of the elderly ends up losing. It is that hospitals are under pressure financially, and often they print patients, not least the elderly, too early, so we get too early releases and too fast returns – we get shuttle traffic between state and municipal care levels. So care for the elderly is a compound problem – something is the responsibility of the municipality and something is the responsibility of the state. Where is the State Council going to use its ability to manage, to make the situation better?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e174	The government has announced in several areas that we will strengthen our efforts, and we have already been involved in some of it. It's about the content, the quality, having enough people who have time to take care of those who need care, whether they're in nursing homes, in nursing homes or at home. It is about strengthening the daily provision, which also contributes to making life worth living, which in many municipalities has unfortunately been cut heavily over some years. This is about increasing competence, so that we can take into account that more people are actually sicker and sicker, among other things. because we live longer – and the last is very good. And these are places, and there the government, as I said, has proposed a new grant. Then I believe that the representative Ludvigsen points to a very important challenge, and that is the interaction between hospitals and hospitals. There we work very closely with the Municipal Councils. Just one specific example: Akershus University Hospital has set up a phone that all hospitals in Akershus can call when they are unsure whether or not a patient should be admitted to hospital. It turns out that many of them will be helped by being in the hospital, and thus will not be admitted to hospital. This means that there are also quite simple approaches that are needed to improve interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e181	Vigdis Giltun - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e184	Once again, we hear the Council of State defend the purpose of the Government to grant only framework transfers to the municipalities. We hear once again that she is talking about building 12,000 new nursing homes and homes for the elderly. It's completely wrong. The government has said that the grant to nursing homes and housing should go to older people, but it should also go to mentally retarded people, to psychiatry and drug care homes and to other types of housing. There are only 6,000 of the 12,000 places that are dedicated to the elderly. When we talk about 10,000 new posts for the care of the elderly in the municipalities, there are also direct defects. A very large proportion of those jobs go to completely different users than older ones. It is a fact that older people today have quite serious problems getting the help they need from municipalities. How will the Council of State make sure that what goes to older people and what goes to other caregivers, so that we can see how much need is for nursing homes and more care services for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e191	There is no doubt that many of the new annual works that have arrived in the municipalities since we took over will benefit older people. The same thing applies to the number of places. But I'm somewhat surprised that the Progress Party doesn't seem to be at all concerned that there are also people in our country with mental disorders, cancer and other things that make them also need a place to live, and that also makes them need care and care. But we just have to take note of that. Then, as far as the Progress Party system is concerned, which should be so much better, I would like to say: we do not believe in a new bureaucratic system that requires a decision to be taken. As I understand it, the Progress Party wants to have it, it means, for example. that you have been in the office and got a decision on what kind of help you need, and are so unfortunate to fall on the way out, you have to come back again to get a new decision on more help. This is an uneasily bureaucratic system, and it won't, as we see it, get any better for those who actually need help, whether it's older or younger users. We believe in a system where the best offer is made in cooperation with the user and the employees of each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e198	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e201	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. There is a lot of good going on in Norway, including in the economic area. At the same time, we know that in many sectors Norwegian society faces major challenges. We have just heard about failures and deficiencies in the care of the elderly. We know that health cows are now growing. There are challenges in child protection, road construction and the school and knowledge sectors. These tasks are so large that it is important to mobilise both the public sector, the private sector and voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households. This is within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, because it is about how we use our resources in society. Now I'm not going to accuse the Minister of Finance of breaking his promises, because in this area, we see that the Government and the Red-Green parties are doing exactly what they have promised, namely consistently choosing public solutions and far-reachingly choosing away private solutions and voluntary and non-profit organisations. This gives users a worse offer. We see that the ideological glasses of the government, or ideological sky posters, make users pay a price. Health cows are growing, among other things, according to the Health Directorate, because the Government chooses out private solutions. We see, in the area of child protection, that child protection institutions are threatened by closures or have to go down, because the government consistently chooses to give priority to public solutions. We see that the government is increasing the tax on private capital, at the same time they are running with a state fund. Is it so that the government's ideological skylights and dogmatic attitudes in this area make you willing to pay a price, that is, a worse offer for patients, for those who need care and a better offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e211	It is right, as the representative Sanner says, that we believe that the most important both welfare and education tasks will be carried out under the direction of the public sector. It is because we believe we have better governance and better access to the type of services if they are not privatised. There's a clear distinction between the previous government and our government on it. But that doesn't mean we mean that e.g. voluntary organisations and NPISHs do not have a place in relation to the offer to be made. On the contrary, we believe that very many municipalities have much more to pick up by cooperating more with non-governmental organisations than they have done, and that – let me not call it bidding hysteria – the ideological choice of tendering solutions in many municipalities has just led to that kind of cooperation being squandered. But the main challenge we have is labour. No matter how we turn around and turn around, it's the biggest challenge in both the public and private sector. That's why it's a very important part of this year's government budget, and what we have to try to get even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e216	Of course, a red-green government also gives some room for voluntary and non-profit organisations. But my point is that the place is getting smaller because the government has gone from the more pragmatic attitude Right has to cooperation between the public and private sectors. Right does not want large-scale privatisation in knowledge, health or care. We want cooperation between the public and private sectors to mobilise all good forces. That's where we see that the government has put on its ideological skyscrapers. Let me do two very specific examples. In the health sector, we now see health cows growing, among other things. because the Government chooses private options. These aren't my words, but it says a director of the Health and Social Directorate. We see that road construction has gone faster where there is a stake in OPS, Public Private Cooperation. But the government has also iced it because you don't want to pull private ones in. They want to focus exclusively on public solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e223	Let me go to the last one first. We have a great opportunity to implement road development and large infrastructure projects more effectively than what has been done, including: Mr Navarsete, Minister of Transport, is clearly in the process of doing so. But we don't need to make privatized loan projects in connection with transportation, because that's basically not the money we lack. It is basically the labour force we lack to implement the projects we want, and that also means that costs are significantly higher. In the health sector, there is also a struggle for the labour force. Now the length of the queues is one question, another question is how long people are in those queues. The important thing for us is to ensure that we have a public health service that has the necessary workforce and that can provide the services that patients need as quickly as possible. There is no doubt that a great encouragement to several private solutions will mean that much of the competence we need to get a public health service to go around goes elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e230	There will be four follow-up questions – first the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e233	The need for labour in the private sector should be a loving opportunity to make structural changes in general government. The left saw growth in the public sector as a means of relieving unemployment in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Today, the issue is the opposite. Why does the Government not then choose to reduce the number of employees in public administration and bureaucracy, so as to free the labour needed by the private sector and which will result in value creation? It could be that the private sector can do things better, and maybe there are things the public sector shouldn't do at all. The consequence of today's policy is that fewer and fewer employees in the private sector need to finance more and more employees in the public sector. Will the Government do anything about this? The budget presented shows that there are increasing numbers of employees in public bureaucracy and administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e240	I think this is a very one-tracked way of looking at government employees. Now I noticed what was the Progress Party attack on the Government in the previous question, where it was about getting enough hands to do the job in the care of the elderly. What is it? It's government employees. There are people we need. It's not bureaucracy – it's just people we need to give the elderly in Norway a real deal. I totally disagree with the entrance of the Progress Party here, namely that it is seen that it is the private sector that carries the rest of Norway. The private sector depends on having a functioning public sector. It depends on kindergartens, it depends on people who can be at work without worrying about parents who don't get the care they need. We have a strong desire to expand that part of the service offer. So, of course, we're going all the way to see if there's anything we can do in question ways, and whether there's unnecessary bureaucracy. But having as a heading that you want to reduce the number of employees in the public sector, I totally disagree with. It's bad for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e249	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e252	We are really concerned, because we see the germ of poorer conditions for the voluntary sector, and we need a voluntary sector. We need this flora from both volunteers, private businesses and public enterprises. We also need this in the business community, because about two out of three Norwegian companies are family businesses. They account for approx. 40 pst. of the total value creation. But this flora can easily be confused, because many of these businesses are in front of a generation change, and it's too many an economic failure to get over. These are everyday businesses that don't bathe in luxury. The Christian People's Party has been working for a long time for the exemption of inheritance tax on generation change in family businesses if the next generation operates for at least 10 years. A Document No has also been generated. Eight proposals on this. My question to the Minister of Finance, if she at the moment puts the rhetoric aside, is: Can this be a sober, accurate and practical starting point for solving a demanding challenge, a challenge that is also described in the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e261	We have come up with this problem that Sørfonn addresses here, something in response to, because we have made a favourable arrangement for how to pay the inheritance fee when taking over family businesses. It is a seven-year free-of-interest scheme – an opportunity that our government has implemented. Then I see that the Christian People's Party wants to go further. For us it has been important to get a much more fairer arrangement of the property tax. These include: Therefore, in the next year's budget, we propose that shares be valued at 100 pst. And don't have the discount that we have now. And then we use the money we get in there to simplify the wealth tax at the bottom. This means that 180,000 people will not pay taxes on wealth next year – compared to those paid this year. Half of them are retired. We think that is a sensible approach to the general heading of taxes on wealth, a much fairer distribution. So I believe we have come to this issue of taking on family businesses well. [[The President clubs.]] I think it might have very unfortunate distribution effects if we were to go further as the Christian People's Party suggests. [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e268	The president reminds us that when the red lamp turns off, the mouth should be closed!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e271	Not if you're engaged, President, but I'm going to tighten up!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e277	Unfortunately, the regulation requires that the answer be terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e280	I promise to extinguish the engagement!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e285	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e288	The Minister of Finance is also head of the Socialist Left Party, and comes to Stortinget as Minister of Finance and is met by a bourgeois opposition who accuses her of governmentizing Norway. The country acquires more means of production, becomes a country, becomes a less voluntary and private community, etc. The answers are not very clear. This puzzles me: why does the Minister of Finance and the head of the SV not shine like a sun, corrects his back and says: I manage to socialize Norway slowly, but surely. Why don't the Minister of Finance and the head of the SV do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e295	I shine like a sun! It has never been SV's policy that the state and the public should take over everything – and all ownership. It has been SV's policy that we should have a balance, but that of course we should use the opportunity we have of state ownership to ensure that we have national anchoring of important value creation in Norway. In an increasingly globalised and internationalised economy, ownership is key. Therefore, it is good that we have a large proportion of public and state ownership in Norwegian business, but it has never been SV's policy that all business activities should be owned by the public. So we're very satisfied with this balance. Sponheim can feel absolutely confident that there will continue to be a balance in this!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e302	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e305	If the President allows me to give a good advice on getting state councils to hold their speaking time, the President could consider using the same language as the Spanish king would use on such occasions! I was actually going to address the follow-up question to the Minister of Health, but I'm going to extend mercy to the Minister of Finance. I noticed that the Minister of Finance mentioned kindergartens as an example of the public sector. It amazed me a little. This is the only area where both the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government have reported their allergy to private and bets all the straps and clothes can hold, on private developers and kindergarten drivers. It may be because the Minister of Finance has made his political life depending on that. Why, then, continue with the allergy when it comes to, for example. – to take a close-up example – the 600 million. kr that will bring people back to work faster? Yesterday we heard a dispute between the head of the NAV and the head of the NHO about who is responsible for not using that money. The debt simply has the government’s allergy to using the private capacity in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e316	I don't know if Inge Wohnning will be the king of Spain or recommend the president to be the king of Spain, and that I shall be Chavez...
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e321	That's the last one!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e326	Yes, I can try to get in the same excited mood! First of all, I have to say about the kindergarten sector: private and private – it's not an ideological crusade to privatize kindergartens. It is simply that, through government appropriations, private sector spending has also been used to provide full childcare. I myself have been involved in starting a private nursery – not for ideological reasons, but because the municipality was never able to offer me the place my kids needed. So we don't have any allergies to this, but we don't think it's particularly appropriate. We believe that the most important thing is that we are able to bring about an upgrading of public welfare. The municipalities use approx. 58 billion kroner of their money for the care of the elderly. That's very good. The increase we have had in care is of great importance. That also means that we have to keep doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e333	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e337	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Private non-profit hospitals are at risk of bankruptcy because of a pension bomb. One example among many I mention: For Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital in Bergen, costs will become so unmanageable that the hospital board will have to ask if there is a basis for further operation. 120 000 people who serve this hospital may lose their health services. Public hospitals may continue to operate by exempting unforeseeable pension costs from the performance requirement, which the private non-profit hospitals cannot do. The Bondevik II government found a solution for 2003 when similar problems arose, namely a liquidity loan scheme from regional health firms to private non-profit hospitals. The solution was then well received by the hospitals. But it has been shown that these loans still paid by hospitals are very heavy to deal with within the operating budget. Repeating this now is completely wrong. As limited liability companies, private non-profit hospitals must operate in a responsible manner. Taking up additional liquidity loans, as proposed by the Government in the balancing proposal, is simply not possible. Hospitals also don't have enough equity to handle this themselves, so the bankruptcy risk is imminent. What will the Council of State do to prevent bankruptcy in 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e350	There is no doubt that there is a serious and – I would say – worrying situation in some of the private ideal hospitals. There is also a reason why we have already had meetings with representatives of them, to look at what the situation really is. It's meetings we're going to continue -- let me express myself that way. So, with the time we have at our disposal now before Christmas, we have put in what the representative Davøy refers to, that we give them access from next year to take up liquidity loans to deal with the situation next year. It is also important to say that we are aware of the situation, and that we have also announced in the same proposition that we on the part of the Government will come back to this, at the latest in the revised national budget. This applies both to the situation of regional health enterprises and to the situation of private non-profit hospitals. We are, as I said, aware of this, and we are working very quickly on this matter. That's the answer we have to give per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e357	The Council of State really does not respond to how she has intended to solve this. The economic situation of private non-profit hospitals is completely different in 2007 than it was in the past, when this solution was first found. It is absolutely essential that this matter is now resolved in the short term. In my opinion, the fact that they have to raise unmanageable liquidity loans in 2007 and then go into 2008 without knowing how to deal with the increased costs is a very poor treatment of hospitals that provide a public service. They cannot wait for the revised national budget, as I understand it, until they find a solution. And what the government proposes in the balancing proposition is absolutely no solution. My question for follow-up is: Is the Government, in the light of the meetings you have had and are going to have, willing to find a real solution for the private ideal hospitals in the treatment of the balancing proposition, which is now in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e366	I record that what the government has proposed in our proposal today is not suitable, according to the representative, Davøy, but was suitable when Davøy himself put in government. But it's now – leave it now. I just want to repeat: I'm taking this situation, the government is taking this situation, seriously. It is clear that we depend on the private non-profit hospitals in our overall healthcare system to provide patients with the best possible offer and to wait as short as possible, but it has not been possible to give a clear answer to what we can do in the short time we have had at our disposal. That is why we have already started meetings, and I would like to stress that the Government says that we are coming back to the revised national budget at the latest. I can't say when we get back, but I want to make sure we work very quickly and carefully on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e376	There will be three follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e379	If the President allows that, I would like to ask the follow-up question to the Minister of Finance on this matter. We have now seen that not only are the private non-profit hospitals struggling with increased pension costs, but also the public hospitals, the health care companies, get an extra bill of NOK 2.2 billion next year. I hope that the Minister of Finance was not surprised when these figures came, because they come as a consequence of both legislation and what is happening in health businesses. My question to the Minister of Finance is this: why has this not been included in the government budget for next year, both in the private sector and in the public sector? And, once you get this bill, why haven't you come to Stortinget with your own proposition on the matter, so that you can see the real use of money for next year, and that you don't cover these expenses?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e388	The reason why the Storting is not previously informed about this situation is that this knowledge and this information have come to us now, and we have briefed the Stortinget as soon as we had an overview of the situation, namely in the context of the new aging proposition. Now this is a situation that is triggered by how the Accounting Act is to be understood in relation to the Storting, so that initially it does not affect the operation of hospitals, but of course it is something that we have to solve in relation to how we handle the hospitals' accounting situation. We have now presented this in the context of the new aging proposition, and we are going to follow that situation up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e395	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e398	It would now have been tempting to ask the follow-up question to the Minister of Aid, but it will be enough for the Minister of Health. Last year the Health and Care Committee visited Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital. It's a hospital that has very good order in its economy, and that has also managed to fund its own development in a exemplary way. One of the committee members asked the director the question: how does it relate to the fact that this privately run hospital, which is formally a whole-time stock company with a foundation behind it, always manages to keep the economy in order, while the public hospitals almost never manage it? He replied: It has a very simple explanation: We can go bankrupt – they can't. Now the situation is very precarious, as Laila Davøy sketched, for some of the large private hospitals. That is why my question to the Council of State is: would the Council of State – I had just said – be able to guarantee that she will clarify this question to these hospitals earlier than May until next year, i.e. in the revised national budget? She said ‘latest in the revised national budget’, and I hope she can confirm that the clarification will take place earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e407	I repeat that I am aware that this is a serious situation. We need these hospitals that do a lot of work for many patients. I am aware that for part of them too is a rather precarious situation. It's in that we're working on it, with it as a starting point. We're working fast, but I can't say anything but what I said today, and as the government has announced in the proposition that came last Friday: we're coming back to Stortinget when we have a proposal for a solution, and that's the latest in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e412	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e416	We're used to large numbers when it comes to the hospital sector, and we've gradually become well used to messages about huge health shortages. We have received a report from the National Audit Office for 2006, which states that there are miles between the political signals from the Brustad Government Council and the ministry's ability to control the economy of the state health care providers. Last Thursday, the Minister of Health and Health, in an open hearing, informed that health care professionals, including private non-profit institutions with agreements with healthcare professionals, would go on a campaign announcement of DKK 3.2 billion this year and DKK 2.2 billion next year in increased pension costs. So the information was given on November 5, one and a half months before the year 2007 ebbs out. In addition, we know that the operating budget for healthcare professionals will be at least DKK 1 billion in relation to the balance sheet requirement this year. The question to the Brustad State Council is: do these billions of exceedances in 2007 mean that healthcare professionals are still without economic governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e427	I take a strong distance from the fact that our hospitals should be without financial control. So here we're talking about the amount of over 80 billion dollars. So there is no doubt that there are some challenges associated with balancing, as the Storting has determined. Next year, it's going to be about $1 billion. The government has proposed one of the very best hospital budgets in history for next year. So we're talking about 1 pst. Of the total budget that hospitals have, which is then, we can say, deficits that they have to do something about next year. But that's what we're taking seriously, and it's also going to be on some challenges. In terms of pension costs, this is something beyond our control, because it is about hospitals having to comply with the Accounting Act – in line with others. We presented this to the Stortinget as soon as we had the overview enough to do so, at an open hearing last Thursday, and presented the proposition on Friday. The SEK 3.2 billion in increased expenditure for the current year we have proposed is excluded. It is not possible to take it from now until Christmas. With regard to the SEK 2.2 billion that we're talking about next year, we've said that we're working on it, and we'll get back to that at the latest in relation to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e436	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e439	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The government had a strategy conference yesterday, and concluded that the environmental threat is much more obvious and extensive than it appeared when the Soria Moria declaration was made two years ago. The government has therefore concluded that a more offensive climate policy is needed. It is a pity that not the strategy conference was held before a team of climate communication, but I hope that the recognition that there is a need for a more offensive climate policy will come true when we are negotiating a climate settlement at Stortinget. When the Soria Moria declaration was made two years ago, SV celebrated as a major saying that it says that the gas power plant at Kårstø is to be cleaned in 2009. Now we know that the promise will not be kept. It is most unclear when the gas power plant at Kårstø will be purified — while generating annual emissions of 1,2 million tonnes of CO2. The government will now decide who will pay for these emissions, for some have to pay. That makes sense, because setting a price for emissions also makes it more profitable to clean. SV and Left have been followers of and cooperated to strengthen the polluter pays principle. And my question to the Minister of Assistance is: Can he guarantee and assure the Storting that when one is going to lay the framework conditions for the gas power plant on Kårstø, which increases the annual CO2 emissions in Norway by 2 pst., will the Government base the polluter pays principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e456	State Council Erik Solheim – as Minister for the Environment – please!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e459	Let's first not forget that what this government is doing in the case of Kårstø is clearing up the problems created by a former government where Mr. Kvassheim had very good contacts — to put it that way. We will be sending out a consultation note on the quota reserve in the near future, in a very, very short time, but I cannot advance what it will mean. As far as the larger picture is concerned, it is correct, in my opinion, that we went into an environmental break where all the parties at the bottom of the bed were asleep – I think the Advance Party was completely asleep, some parties were slumbering, and SV and Left were probably the most awake. All the parties were in a long break where too little happened, from the early Gro-Epoch in the 1990s, beyond the 1990s and until this government took over. Even the Soria Moria statement was not tough enough at this point. There's been a lot of new recognition now, further on. That recognition was the basis for the climate communication, but a new recognition has also been received after the climate notification, by this week at the latest, when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented its final status report. On this basis, we have an absolutely open attitude to a dialogue with the opposition in Stortinget. That dialogue can't be based on the fact that we're right in everything and the opposition is wrong in everything. There must be a dialogue based on gi and ta. But even when climate change settlements are hopefully established, that doesn't mean the end line for this. The climate issue is now established as the international mainly in the coming years, as a difficult issue in Norwegian policy. There will be a lot of new research and knowledge in the years to come. This is something that must happen continuously, rolling and improved on the basis of the ever-increasing knowledge coming in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e466	What we need in climate work is less history and more political action. But the government council is wrong when he sticks the Left to the Kårstø plant. The left was in a government that went off because one would not build gas power plants on Kårstø. It was initiated by the Stoltenberg I government, the head of the state council, in his new government. So until what was my main question, which the Council of State does not comment on, is whether he can guarantee that the polluter pays principle will be used as a basis for the emissions at the Kårstø plant. Prime Minister Stoltenberg told Channel 24 that gas power stations will pay for each gram of CO2 they emit. I had expected a Swedish State Council to be as clear and could conclude in the same way in Stortinget. Can we risk that the first big decision taken by the new Environment Minister is to release the gas power plant at Kårstø free of charge, and that the state takes the bill, as opposed to what too much other industry is doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e476	What we're working on here is finding a transitional arrangement for how a gas power plant, like both the representative Kvassheim and I have been skeptical all along, should be brought into a new and, I think, much tougher quota system in the years to come. Whether there are free allowances or you buy these allowances, the crucial issue is not from an environmental point of view, since in any case it is a strong incentive to reduce. They can be traded on an exchange and provide income. But now let that question lie. We will present a consultation opinion on this in the near future. Then there will be ample opportunity to discuss it. Then I agree with the representative Kvassheim that we must now get the discussion on what we are doing in the future. It must be based on the new synthesis report from the Climate Panel, which provides – what to say – the authoritative, scientific, international summary of what is status. It should be a wake-up call, for government, for Norwegian civil society, for the Church – for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e483	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e486	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that no one here is asking the question yes or no to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. That is not what this debate is about, and that is not what Gunnar Kvassheim wanted to know. The question here is: what is the concrete policy to be pursued in Norway, considering that Kristin Halvorsen of Soria Moria said that 15 years of gas power plant dispute had ended with the red-green government? What, then, is the policy? It's six weeks to New Year's. The directors of the gas power plant at Kårstø do not yet know what kind of framework conditions they have to deal with after 1 January. I'll give them an extra charge of 200 million. Do they have to pay for all the allowances themselves, or do they have conditions of competition similar to those in the EU, as the Progress Party believes? There must be equivalent framework conditions. But the question is, What does the government say? The Climate Allowance Act requires the allocation of the set-aside allowance to gas power plants based on CO2 clean-up or which are high-efficiency thermal power plants. Kårstø is not a high-efficiency heat plant. Would the State Council say that it is based on CO2 clean-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e497	I can only repeat what I said in the reply to Gunnar Kvassheim, that we will be sending out to the hearing a proposal to clarify the climate quota law at this point in the very near future. Then we will be able to take that debate. We cannot take the debate until this has been discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e503	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e506	Contamination of the Paying Principle is a fundamental principle of the Christian People's Party. The Government Parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party agree that the quota reserves should only go to new gas power plants with CO2 management. That principle was established in this hall in the spring. That principle must be re-examined in the consultation note with which the Government is now working. What is important is that we move from principles to concrete action. It is such that the CO2 emissions from Kårstø correspond to emissions from 460,000 cars until we get a CO2 clean-up in place. There are so-called doubts about progress and also about the start of full-scale cleaning at Kårstø and Mongstad. My question is, when will Kårstø and Mongstad have CO2 cleaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e525	As the representative probably understands, it is not possible for me to give an exact date for when this will happen, but the objectives given by the Government in this area are very clear, and we will have absolutely full pressure to achieve them. If the representative allows a comment to the polluter pays principle: the problem with the note that the opposition delivered to the Government just a few weeks ago was that there was no trace of the polluter pays principle in the 61 points of the note. I believe that an important part of the dialogue on climate communication in the Storting must be that we get it to a greater extent so that those who pollute pay to clean up the pollution. There are a number of areas where there will be potential for that discussion in the debate between the opposition and the government on a climate settlement. We can't just spend money on all good purposes, nor on the environment, even though it's my heart to give much to everything right in terms of the environment. We also need money back, and then it is reasonable that the polluter pays for the cleaning costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e532	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e535	We'll have to take the climate negotiations when that time comes. I believe that it is the polluter-pays principle that carries these requirements. Since this is also a bit of an environmental and climate history, I remember well back to the middle of the 1990s when the then representative Solheim and I walked around and was very angry – to say it like this – at the plans of Naturkraft, among others. about building Kårstø. I remember that then the manager, Auke Lont, was a guy we at least didn't like so much in that context. He says today about this: «In my period from 1994 to 1997, I said that the polluter should pay. Based on that, a polluter has to buy allowances. I didn't see it as a problem either. Wages are falling, but electricity prices would have risen because coal power stations had to buy even more allowances.» Although they pay for these allowances, it would also be the way that their competitors pay even more for the allowances. I certainly know that the Council of State is fighting everything he can for this environmental position internally in the Government. But then he has to show some procedural answers here today. So my question is quite simply: do I need to wish the Council of State happiness?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e547	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e552	Thank you! I don't need any more, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e557	I always want the Stortinget to wish me luck in the environmental struggles I'm going to engage in. It's just joyous. Let me add: Although Sponheim well understands that I have nothing more to say about the quota reserve right now, there's one thing we can be proud of in common, and that's the fight we've been fighting against gas power plants for many years. We would have been in a much better situation if this had not happened. I am proud of the camps I attended under the auspices of the Federation of Nature and Youth. Sponheim may be proud of part of the position taken by the Bondevik I government in this area. We would have been in a better situation if this had not happened. Now it's happened. Now, what we're facing is finding a national compromise on how to solve the immediate situation right now. However, it is essential that after 2012, we enter into a long-term, committed, international allowance system in which the principle must be that the polluter pays, and that, after that, there are no exceptions and transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e564	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e567	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The government pushed through a climate quota law at the end of the summer, even they were so in a hurry that the Storting had to extend their session. The previous round of questions showed that the Government has not in any way clarified what the climate allowance law should actually contain when six weeks before it comes into force, cannot say which principle to base. I understand that the Council of State cannot say in detail what the law means, but that he is unable to clarify the principles, says that this is really poorly prepared. The fact that the draft consultation has not even been completed six weeks before its entry into force indicates little about the predictability of the policy pursued. However, the law will undoubtedly give Norwegian industry a significant extra bill. Former Minister for the Environment, Bjørnøy. 560 million. kr per year, or DKK 2,5 billion during the working period. Holdings are at risk of closure. NorFra Kalk in the South-Trøndelag is an example. Kårstø may be another example if the Government does not reason. It is not just the quota costs that will be affected. Power prices will also be significantly influenced by the climate quota law to be implemented by both Norway and the EU. Energy analysts assume that current prices will increase by at least 10 øre per. kWh as a result of CO2 costs for coal-fired power plants. For power consumers in Norway, this will mean an extra charge of at least DKK 12 billion per year. The price increase is therefore due to the cost of CO2 from foreign coal power stations. This is a paradox and is perceived as improperly unfair for Norwegian electricity customers, which is largely based on hydropower – i.e. CO2-free power. It is a bit of coal power imports, but with a more efficient energy policy, one could avoid this. Current customers are then victims of a misguided energy policy and a misunderstood environmental policy. Will the State Council do anything to prevent Norwegian electricity consumers from getting this shock increase in electricity prices as a result of CO2 emissions from coal-fired power stations in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e594	If Solvik-Olsen was to make a contribution to justify why the Progress Party is not a current partner in the hopeful climate agreement, he can keep the very post that was held here now. It's to find one reason after another for why you shouldn't do anything in this area, and the very opposite of what Kvassheim and Sponheim previously recommended that we do. It is not possible to conduct climate negotiations with those who will definitely make the climate worse and go against any sensible action in practice in this area, and with a bourgeois opposition of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left who have made some constructive proposals on how to develop policies in this area. It is not possible to satisfy both of these, and we want a dialogue with the constructive bourgeois opposition, not with the Progress Party. So touch the representative into a series of questions. NorFra Kalk is a matter that is now in ESA, and we will await the conclusion there. If I can end by enjoying Solvik-Olsen, since we had a dispute yesterday about the biomembrane, we have now been in contact with the founder behind this invention. We'll try to meet him in the near future and see if there's anything we can do to help him through the system. The first response we received was that there are not so many questions about money as about other arrangements that he may need to move on. I hope at least there can be a good news for Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e604	I was actually standing here waiting for an answer to the question. This was not an argument against the climate quota law as such. The question is: how are we to prevent the unintended effects that are only a cost to Norwegian electricity customers – a cost of DKK 12 billion – when, after all, CO2 free power is used? That's what the question was about. Governments should be aware that the Progress Party has presented a comprehensive action plan with over 30 points on how we want to comply with the Kyoto agreement, but I do not think he has read the document. So this is not a debate about or against the Kyoto agreement, it is not a debate about or against doing anything to reduce CO2 emissions, but it is a debate about doing so in a smarter way than just reducing costs to consumers, as the government is doing by introducing a law that is flagging emissions out of the country but not reducing them globally, because it makes it impossible to do this in Norway. So I ask you one more time: will the Council of State try to do something to prevent the unintended consequences, that Norwegian electricity customers have to pay for there being CO2 emissions on the continent?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e622	Now, if we get what we all want: a well-functioning international carbon and carbon emission allowance system that has carbon in it, it will lead to a higher price on something as valuable as Norwegian electricity. An increased carbon price internationally will simply give one of Norway's largest resources, hydropower, greater value. It's an unintended effect in itself, but it's not necessarily negative. It can also help us, precisely because this is such a great value for us, start to house better with it. We've been waiting for Norway – it's about myself, and I want to tip it off about Solvik-Olsen too – not to be so very careful about the use of our hydropower resource, our electricity use, because it's had a very low price. So if the price of this very valuable positive Norwegian resource was going to increase somewhat, then it's an unintended effect of what's happening internationally, but it's basically also positive, because it'll make us appreciate it more and reduce its use.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e627	Due to the time, there are two follow-up questions – first Svein Flötten.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e630	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Finance. Solvik-Olsen was concerned with the electricity price, which is a function of what was built out of hydropower. There has been a stream of small-scale owners in the financial committee this autumn who have said that the new rules on interest-rate taxation will destroy the profitability of existing small-scale power plants and prevent the development of new small-scale power plants. If it is that you are busy with electricity prices, that you are busy building renewable energy, environmentally friendly energy, why is the right approach to provide significant tax increases that make this activity unprofitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e639	If we first say a few words about the power price, it will be that those who want to build out small power plants, as an effect of what previous questions asked, are in the vicinity of projects that can yield even better returns than they previously saw. So to the proposal contained in the State budget. Now the Financial Committee is presenting its position today, and I know that the majority there is asking for a closer look at the framework conditions for new and renewable energy. But it is not the case that these proposals for taxation in the case of small-scale power plants make previously profitable investments unprofitable. The real interest rate tax is geared towards an exceptionally high rate of return, because a common natural resource, namely hydropower, is used. And that's how a basic interest tax is to be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e646	My follow-up question goes to Environment Minister Erik Solheim. With the last interim report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in mind, the Christian People's Party is concerned that in Norway we need to be more effective in streamlining the use of our power. We've been blessed for a number of years with a lot of clean force, which means we've wasted a lot. The fact that the electricity prices resulting from the CO2 charges in the Kyoto Agreement will now increase from 1 January will hopefully help us to improve energy efficiency in our homes, in our industry and in the public sector. That's good, and we've already seen trends of that. But at the same time, the increased electricity prices will lead to increased revenues from the energy companies and their owners, which are mostly the state and municipalities. In order to counteract any dissatisfaction among people most when prices increase, I believe that the investment in climate action must be as high as the income that the state will now receive. Then my question is: will the Council of State work to ensure that the expected increase in revenue from a publicly owned energy company next year goes to climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e660	I do not know whether that type of direct ringing is appropriate, but I fully share the two basic reasoning contained in the representative's articles. Getting a gradual increase in the price of energy, of course including an environmentally friendly form of energy like hydropower, will only be positive. Anyone who has had a person from Italy, for example, on a visit at home, knows that he runs around the apartment and turns off every break before she goes out, because they're used to, while we've been used to, even in the middle of the summer, letting it all just stand on because the power price has been historically very, very low with us. It's an advantage if we make friends to save, and energy efficiency is globally one of the most important measures against climate change. It is a tragedy that many poor countries perceive this as something we have made to thin them. Several UN conferences have emerged. Energy efficiency has enormous potential. When China’s prime minister was in Japan shortly back, it was found that Japan is six times eight times as energy efficient as China. It shows the enormous potential of global energy efficiency improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e667	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e670	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. In my view, health and care services, as well as welfare services, are for the benefit of users. The overall obligation for us politicians is to ensure that users receive qualitatively good services at the time they need the services. Earlier in today's Question Time, we heard the Minister of Finance providing a glittering defence for the private initiative and for the market mechanism for child care. I really appreciated that. But then it's mysterious why the government the Minister of Finance is in, has written in his Soria Moria statement that in the health and care sector, you want to reduce the use of private providers. Then you have to ask, what's the reason for that? Is that consideration for the users? It can't be. There must be some very specific ideological principles, namely that these services are for the sake of the public sector and for the bureaucratic system that administers the public sector. In the last year, we have seen numerous examples of private rehabilitation and training institutions working heavier and heavier because they are not allowed to use their capacity. We have seen that the health cows in the last year have increased for the first time since the hospital reform, with 20,000 where the previous years have decreased on average by 20,000 – i.e. in reality a difference of 40,000 in one calendar year. Will the Minister of Health take on board the consequences of the now ambiguity of the figures and start to assume that even in the health and care sector, there is a need for users to weigh more heavily?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e679	It is a matter of course of concern to users and patients who count most in terms of health policy. It was just supposed to be missing. So to the representative's pay statement that the queues are growing. Yes, it is true that others are in line, but that is not the main problem. The time they're in line is actually shorter now than when we took over the government after the government put in the right. One reason why more people are in line is that we are still getting more treatment options, which means that things we couldn't deal with before, we can treat today. The challenge is that people should be there for the shortest possible time. So it's not right, the picture that the representative Wage and other representatives from the same party are trying to create that we're going to have an allergy or something similar to private. No, we have extensive cooperation – and a good cooperation, I would say – with private ideals. It's about hospitals – we've just had a round about it – and it's also about private rehabilitation institutions, of which I'm a strong supporter. Not least, the system hastening back will lead to us being able to fill up many more of them as well. What we have said, on the other hand, is that in the case of private commercials, with which we also have good cooperation, and with which we are now exploiting even more, not least through the Accelerate Back Scheme, it is important that we also use the capacity of the public sector. In Hedmark, we now have an experiment with something we call patient helpers. It is simply people who in four selected municipalities are employed to help people get into hospitals faster. Just by that grip, people get faster. It's mainly in public hospitals. It shows, together with much other evidence, that in parts of the country there is still free capacity, even in some public hospitals. We have to take advantage of that. In addition, we will have good cooperation, extensive cooperation, with private ideas – we have a lot of them – but also with private commercials. There we also run something more on now, not least in relation to the speed up back system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e690	It was just supposed to be missing, said the Council of State, and I agree with that with the heart, but then one has to ask again: why has the statement written in the Soria Moria Declaration been written, and said in the form of a charge to regional health firms, that they should step down the use of the capacity that actually exists in both private health institutions and rehabilitation and training institutions? Is this message the Government's message still, or has the Government now changed the message, which I believe could be heard out of the Council's response, where she almost embraced both private ideal and private commercial service providers? The government has to decide: if it is serious about imposing a reduction in the use of private capacity, yes, hospital queues will continue to increase. It's bombproof, and the Council of State's own profession has said so publicly. It is not credible to say that it is the last calendar year that medical science has made such enormous progress. That progress has been going on for all the years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e696	I hear that the representative now says that I should have said that it is the last calendar year that technology has speeded up. I've never said that. I have said that in a very short time the technology is moving forward. I understand that the representative for the payroll is looking to hear that the waiting time is now shorter than when we took over after the Right sat in government. It is also true that the waiting time within very many areas from other tertiary last year to other tertiary this year has also fallen. But we're not satisfied with that, because we're going on. So once again, the problem is not that people are in line, because we can deal with even more. The challenge is that they should be there for the shortest possible time. So I would say, we haven't given a management message that one should not use private rehabilitation institutions. It doesn't say anything. What we have given a management message about is that, in the case of hospitals, one should primarily take advantage of the public hospitals. There are also volunteers, the ideals, because in parts of the country there is free capacity. Then we've said that when it's done, a seafarer should also use private, commercial to the extent necessary for patients to get to the fastest possible. That's what's in it. But there is capacity in public, and it should be used with respect, so that we make the best possible use of public funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e705	Now there are only two follow-up questions, for the sake of time – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e708	It is true that until 2006, queues fell, but the problem to the Council of State is, of course, what has happened from 2006 to 2007. Then the positive trend one was in, turned around, and the queues increase seriously in Health-Norway. Furthermore, reference is still made to the period 2005-2007. It is now possible to start using 2006–2007. Then you can see that the queues have increased and the waiting time has increased. So the council says something that it's nice to listen to, and then we'll see if it's right. The Council of State said the following: first you have to see what capacity you have in public, and if you don't have capacity there, you should also be able to use commercial private hospitals. Then I ask the Council of State the following questions: What is acceptable waiting time for a patient? If a patient is in line for nearly three months, it must be because there is no capacity in the public health system. Will the Minister of Health then ensure that private use is possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e715	Let me first draw my attention to that 66 pst. of all patients come in for immediate help, i.e. they come in on the day and at the hour if necessary. Those in line are usually patients waiting for scheduled surgery. How long it is acceptable to wait will depend on what kind of suffering it is. What is joyous is that the overview now shows that it is the sickest people – and it should just be lacking – who are now the fastest. That's the way we want it to be. Then, as the representative Nesvik says, I would like to keep to the figures from 2006 to 2007. Then it's actually wrong what the representative here says, that the waiting times are increasing, because they don't. The waiting times have fallen for most, but the queues are increasing. But once again, it can't be that we make it a problem that as technology moves forward, we can treat more diseases! There are many people who would not have been in line if we had not had treatment options, and here I can point out many areas. But the waiting times have to go down further. Not least, the Government has now made a new proposal to provide a specific waiting list guarantee for children and young people in the field of mental health protection, to mention one example.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e722	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e725	It is in fact a reality that the Government, with its policy, ensures that private rehabilitation institutions either have to wind up or reduce the number of places. If we take figures from the Government's own strategy plan for rehabilitation, it says that there have been 4 500 fewer stays in these institutions from 2005 to 2006. Then the Government points out – and the Council of State has also done it here in its first response – that ideal private rehabilitation institutions have got agreements through the Rapid Rehabilitation Scheme. Yeah, they do, but there won't be any patients there. We know about rehabilitation institutions that have got agreements, but faster back hasn't exactly been a success. So they're standing there with empty beds. We need a lot more rehabilitation. And if patients who need rehabilitation do not stand in line – it is possible that the queues do not grow – they do not actually get rehabilitation, because the right that they have under the law is very poorly cared for, and it is known to the Council of State. What are we going to do, Councillor, with this big problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e734	I fully agree with the representative Davøy that we need more rehabilitation, we are not in the target when it comes to it. However, it is also important to stress that the vast majority of rehabilitation in Norway today takes place in our hospitals. Then it happens in the municipalities, and much more probably also has to happen in the municipalities, because that's where people live. And then we have the private rehabilitation institutions. We believe that they play an important role. So it's true that there have been some changes. These include: that there is more attention to quality, and I assume that we agree that there is a point that those in rehabilitation institutions are actually being rehabilitated. Unfortunately, there is a slight variation in the quality of any of the offers that have been made. I wonder that the representative Davøy now falls such a negative judgment over the order of the Raskers, because through it there are a good many people who are rehabilitated. What also turns out is that there are people who often have more complex disorders, who can't cut their fingers off and make one offer. It is often a multidisciplinary offer, which requires much greater efforts both in hospitals and in rehabilitation institutions. However, rehabilitation institutions are now in the process of being filled up more, not least through that scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e743	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e749	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative of Mr Ingreig S. Sørfonn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has left. Question 19, from Robert Eriksson to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, is answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who has been away. Question 20, from the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde to the Minister of Justice, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 11. Question 21, from the representative Ola T. Loan to the Minister of Culture and the Church, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 24, from the representative André N. Skkelstad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 25, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e772	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: «The Tax Act sets the tax liability limit for income of DKK 140000 for charitable and non-profit institutions and organisations. This amount has remained unchanged for a series of years, so that the real value of the tax exemption for income below that threshold has gradually been reduced. Will the Council of State contribute to the adjustment of this ceiling on the amount so that, for example, there is room for increased organisational hard work without triggering tax obligations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e781	The scheme with a lower level of taxation in charitable and non-profit organisations intends to benefit small local teams by simplifying the working conditions of these types of organisations. The goal is, among others: to create better conditions for income creation and paid work, for example: trainers, instructors, conductors, etc. The tax liability limit in charitable and non-profit organisations was last changed in 1998 when it was raised from NOK 70 000 to NOK 140 000. So the representative Kvassheim has been in position at previous intersections to do something about this sea. Through the current amount limit, non-governmental organisations have been granted a competitive advantage over ordinary traders. An increase in the amount limit will reinforce this distortion of competition. I also point out that non-governmental organisations have already been given a number of reliefs in relation to the ordinary tax rules, for example. related to VAT. At the same time, I remind you that the Government of this year’s government budget has proposed a significant increase in the limits on the payment of the employer’s contribution and the obligation to pay wages and salaries of non-governmental organisations. The limits for the payment of the employer’s fee have been proposed increased from NOK 300000 to NOK 450000 for the organisation’s total wage and salary costs, and from NOK 30000 to NOK 45000 for the individual employee when the organisation’s total payments are less than NOK 450000. These limits were last amended in 1997. The salary obligation limit has been proposed double in the year’s budget, from NOK 2000 to NOK 4000. This limit was last amended in 1992. The government’s proposals contribute to improving the framework conditions for this type of organisation. In any case, issues relating to changes to the tax regime must be assessed against other measures and the expenditure side of the budget in the ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e792	I thank you for your answer. I have no problem understanding that one must have a delimitation in relation to competing businesses. Once this case has been raised, it is because a sports team in Rogaland got tax liability because one stood guard at a parking lot at Viking's home matches. There is no competition with business. My supplementary question to the Council of State is: Will she go through the law to see if a person can create a greater opening for that kind of income, without going beyond what is meant by this limit, namely to protect competition with business? Then I am glad that the Council of State refers to what has been done with regard to the employer's fee. It was a proposal from me on behalf of the Left, in which we received clear feedback from the Ministry of Finance that it was a bad proposal, because it would undermine the basis for the tax reform and should therefore be rejected. That's why it's very positive that the government looked at its own keel to bring this into the next state budget. Can we expect a similar positive news from the proposal I am suggesting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e799	As the representative of Kvassheim noted, we have made various improvements in the case of non-governmental organisations, and changed the amount limits that have not been changed in very many years, over 10–15 years. This means that today’s government has a positive attitude to finding a good framework for voluntary work. I tend to say that it is the janitor who is the real hero in voluntary Norway, because it is perhaps the work that seems the least, which is the most wooden, and which is going around the kitchen tables, often after the evening news! So it's important that a layer is as simple, transparent and liberal as possible. You also have, as Kvassheim says, consideration for those who are engaged in business and who can be out-competitive by large and perhaps more professional sports. I'm looking all the way at whether there are more reasonable boundaries to where these competitions go, and I'm going to continue to do that. That's this balance we have to figure out all the way out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e806	I thank you for the additional reply. What is my concern is that there is developing a kind of gainful work in the voluntary sector that is affected by this provision, which was not intended to be affected by it. For me, there's two ways to approach it. One way is to clarify the determination, as many agencies have said it is necessary, because it is interpreted differently from the municipality to the municipality. There's no good situation. I hope I can perceive the Minister of Finance's answer so that she will go through the law on the basis of the examples that have been, to see if there is room to make adjustments that make what is unintentional not affected by this provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e813	I would like to take a closer look at the issue raised by Kvassheim. I also see that there are two ways to approach this. One is to raise the boundaries, which there are quite a number of counter-conceptions against self-employed workers, in other words to look at the interfaces in question and whether they are real in terms of competition with regard to private business. I'll take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e823	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘With the pressure of drag, large police forces and the tax administration recently acted against a named entrepreneur company in the Oslo area, then targeting the company for extensive crimes. According to the Evening Post on 9 November, there is a great deal of evidence that the intended parties have not done anything wrong, and the tax rate has also dropped the guarantee of the claim completely. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the implementation of the necessary bookkeeping and accounting controls in Norwegian enterprises does not degenerate into a public jam with full press coverage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e832	The issue referred to in the question is a criminal matter. Its handling falls within the responsibility of the police and prosecution authorities. I cannot go into this specific matter in the further answer. Accounting supervision and control is an important part of the control activities of the tax administration. This type of control may have different rating. The tax base uses both controls where those to be checked are notified in advance and checks carried out without warning. Furthermore, the nature of the checks may be such that the entire accounts and documents of the establishment are reviewed, while at other times only parts of the establishment are checked. The control activities of the tax authorities are governed by strict rules of professional secrecy. Employees in the tax system are obliged to prevent unauthorised persons from being given access to information on any person's property, income or other economic, business or personal circumstances. This places considerable restrictions on the right of the tax administration to inform press or others about bookkeeping in specific establishments. Different information measures are important to make taxpayers comply with tax law. However, experience shows that information and knowledge about obligations is not sufficient for many taxpayers to comply with the legislation. The control activities of the tax administration are important to ensure compliance. It is clear that the tax rate does not have the resources to constantly control all those operating. Therefore, an important element of the monitoring work of the establishment will be to provide generally anonymous information on the checks carried out, where appropriate, to be carried out. This contributes to a better understanding of the risk of being discovered. Using media for such general information is both necessary and legitimate. However, it is important that the information activities of the tax administration, with a view to working preventively, do not go beyond the limits of professional secrecy of individual taxpayers. The establishment shall not give prior notice to the media of any action against named companies nor shall it do so, as the Ministry of Finance is aware. In order to increase the risk of discovery experienced, it is also important that the media inform about taxpayers convicted of serious tax evasion. The freedom to provide information on criminal prosecution/crime is governed by the law applicable to the police and prosecution authorities and to the courts. The fact that the tax rate occasionally assists the police in criminal proceedings, which for various reasons are put up in the media, does not mean that the agency is the source of the petitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e852	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I was not concerned about this particular matter, but I think the newspaper essay was a very good illustration on the two sides we have in tax evasion, namely that of course we should inform and invest a lot of resources to discover and reveal that kind of thing. On the other hand, taxpayers and businesses must have a guarantee that they are anonymised, that they are treated in a real and fair way. I see the Council's answer as – although it is not entirely stated – that it might be inculcated that it should be anonymity, and that at least the Ministry does not know that the tax rate was the source of this. I think we have to take this quite seriously also in order to get the companies to follow the laws and regulations that it is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e861	I believe that my answer is to understand that a very high standard is maintained by the tax administration in terms of publication, anonymisation and protection of taxpayers' rights in connection with controls. The emphasis that I also give of how to proceed, that you don't tip the media in this kind of case, and that there are two completely different regimes before and while you're doing investigations, and after you've fallen, suggests that the tax rate has a very high attention on these issues. The matter which is the starting point for the question of the fleet is therefore dealt with by the police and prosecution authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e868	I believe the Council of State when she says this, but the Council of State also said in its first answer that information to taxpayers is important, perhaps not only about what they have to deal with, but it might also have been an idea to inform more widely about the anonymity to be available, about the rights that people have. I would think that very many people would appreciate seeing e.g. a newspaper article, a headline, that went into something similar to what the Council of State has said to me here today, about what rights you have, and that it is not free, that very many have actually got the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e873	The representative of the fleet has now made it possible to broadcast in addition to the country what kind of rights taxpayers have, what they can expect from treatment for anonymisation, and how the tax rate goes about control activities. My impression is that people are well aware of what kind of rights they have, and that there are not many examples – if any – of the fact that the tax rate has broken them. I believe that the tax rate holds a high standard in these questions. We have to balance respect for the individual taxpayer while at the same time informing ourselves of the checks that we know it is absolutely necessary to make, so that most people and businesses are guided by what is regulation, and the risk of discovery is an important part of their seas. But this is done by taking into account individual taxpayers and not by hanging out some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e884	«To Trønder-Avisa on 17 January 2006, the then Minister of Energy, Enoksen, said that Mid-Norway is heading towards a severe power crisis and that solutions were urgent. Corresponding recognition came from the Council of State in Rome's Budstikken on 27 October this year. The red-green government has been running for over two years. The government has not initiated any new concrete measures that have given new power investments in central Norway in addition to mobile gas plants. For new gas power plants in the region, would it require the installation of CO2 cleaning from day 1?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e894	The representative's question is specifically addressed to gas power plants. However, the answer to this question is the power crisis in Central Norway. I therefore take a slightly broader approach to the answer than just answering the question of gas power plants. Since its accession, the government has given high priority to reducing the vulnerability of the Norwegian power supply. We have special attention to the situation in Middle Norway. During the last year, significant efforts have been made to put in place measures to improve the power situation in Central Norway. State networks have an important role to play in the work that is now being done. The transmission capacity of the network between Sweden and Middle Norway shall be strengthened in 2009. The investment decision has been made on both the Swedish and Norwegian sides. In addition, Statnett works with the Ørskog-Fardal line and concession treatment under the Energy Act is ongoing. In addition, Statnett has invested in several network voltage measures that are put into service in the autumn and the next harvest to improve transmission capacity into Central Norway. Statnett also introduced a separate price range for Mid-Norway in November 2006, inter alia: to facilitate the maximum import of power into the region. Renewable efforts play an important role in the challenges we face in relation to new production capacity in the region. Enova has a number of measures for energy saving, increased renewable energy production and information measures. A doubling of Enova’s framework allows for a significant increase in investment in this work. A new renewable electricity support scheme through Enova for the realisation of wind, water and biofuels projects in the area has been initiated. Furthermore, district and local heating projects could help relieve electricity demand. There are several plans for such projects in the region. It is also important to provide for the fastest possible concessional treatment of current developments in the region. The NVE has strengthened case handling capacity and prioritises concession cases for water and wind in Central Norway. Furthermore, provision has been made for the area to be sufficiently prepared for very demanding situations through Statennet’s investments in two spare power plants of a total of 300 MW. The facilities shall be located in central Norway. The objectives of the State network are that they will be prepared and ready from the beginning of 2008. The Ministry is now dealing with complaints about the installation concessions and emission permits for the two facilities on the Tjeldbergodden and Nyhamna, and submits to a rapid clarification thereof. There are several plans for new gas power generation in Central Norway that can help ensure a permanent and robust power supply. I have recently completed meetings with the three current developers. They have presented their projects and challenges related to their realisation. These are useful input into further efforts to realise new power generation in the region. With regard to CO2 management requirements in relation to new gas power plants, the Government's policy is that we will, through economic instruments and investment in new technologies, ensure that new gas power concessions will be based on CO2 removal. We are already doing this well. At the testing centre in Mongstad, we will try to help reduce technical risks and reduce the costs associated with the capture and storage of CO2 by testing technology. On Kårstø existing technology will be scaled down by a factor of ten. Both of these projects are pioneering projects and will make an important contribution to the commercial availability of CO2 capture and storage outside Norway. By means of economic instruments and investing in new technologies, we will ensure that new gas power concessions are based on CO2 removal, starting with clean-up from start-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e930	We have heard the description of the situation for two years, so it was not necessary. The question was about the power crisis in Central Norway. The focus on gas power plants from my side is that it is the only realistic solution in which a significant volume can be obtained within a relatively reasonable time horizon. I remember that even then the state council, before giving up, called for the stimulation of the construction of gas power plants in central Norway, because he saw it as the only realistic solution. In Romesdal's Budstikke on 27 October, it appears that the Council of State visited Industrial Power More, and that is a possible, good gas power project. What they wanted to respond to was the CO2 framework conditions. I have heard a lot about things going on based on CO2 cleaning without the government wanting to clarify when the point of impact of cleaning is actually going to take place. It was also an attempt to clarify the oral question procedure, in relation to Kårstø. Can I interpret the last sentence in the Council's response so that the cleaning must be in place from day one in order for Industrikraft Møre to be granted a concession and an emission permit?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e943	First of all, there's a continuous effort to secure the power situation in Middle Norway, and as I've already made clear, it's going through different channels. Statnett is doing an important job, Enova is doing an important job, and the NVE is doing an important job in bringing the concessions forward. So this is going on and on. Then there's a question of new production in the area. There are three current builders. I'm in conversations and discussions with all three. There are clear expectations from the three actors about significant State involvement in the realisation of the projects. We will think carefully about what is the wisest social approach to these three projects in order to ensure increased production in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e950	It is perhaps my dialect that makes the Council of State unable to answer the question. So the question goes directly to the fundamental framework conditions. I fully understand that in all applications there is a concession treatment where the project is to be assessed in relation to the applicable law. But how should a builder of a gas power plant know what kind of framework conditions you have when not the Government, on the Storting, will say what it's supposed to be based on CO2 cleaning that? Does this mean that it keeps a plan to build CO2 clean-up plants once in the future? Does this mean that you need to start building the CO2 cleaning plant physically at the same time as you start building the gas power plant? Or does that mean that the CO2 cleaning plant is due to be completed on the same day as the start of production at the gas power plant? Without that clarification, no serious company will spend any money on the investigation of a potential gas power plant. Because the political risk of getting no is so great that they give priority to other things. Light Energy in Stavanger has said it clearly. With today's framework conditions, they don't even want to spend money to figure it out. Can the Council of States confirm: Is the last sentence of the first response applicable?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e969	There is no doubt about what is the government's policy in this area. It is illustrated by the fact that considerable work is being done in a number of circles to deal with projects. We are in dialogue with several of them, including More. We have as our starting point that we need to clean up new gas power plants, and that it should be clean from start-up. We have a good dialogue with the relevant manufacturers in Central Norway, which was the starting point for the question, and I don't think any of them are in any doubt about what conditions the government is basing on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e982	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The EU has signalled ambitions to use Norwegian hydropower as a regulatory force to achieve the Union’s 20 pst target. renewable energy use by 2020. This will result in enormous pressure on the already heavily pressed Norwegian hydropower generation. Reasonable electricity prices will forever be history in Norway. Norwegian electricity consumers will thus receive the bill for the EU's energy policy objectives. What is the Government’s view, and estimates of, that the EU now seems to be committed to using the Norwegian hydropower system as a regulator?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e991	I am not aware that the Government has received enquiries from the EU or EU countries linking Norway to the EU's renewable energy targets. However, EU policies will affect the power trade between EU countries and Norway. Today we have extensive power trade between Norway and our neighbouring countries. Norway is part of the Nordic power market and has a large transfer capacity to Sweden and Denmark. The Nordic market is further linked to the continent and Russia. Furthermore, we are not long connected to the Netherlands through the new NorNed cable. This contributes to enhancing security of supply of electricity. Furthermore, it facilitates good use of power resources, as the power exchange exploits the differences between the hydropower-dominated power system in Norway and the thermal power systems in Europe. The actual exchange with the rest of the world is determined by the ongoing evolution of production and consumption conditions in Norway and in the countries to which we relate, as well as by the transmission capacity. Increased use of Norwegian hydropower as a regulatory force for Europe in addition to that resulting from normal current power exchange requires increased transmission capacity. Such capacity is subject to concession treatment in Norway and in other countries and requires the existence of a contractual or regulatory framework between the countries concerned. I do not know that the EU or some EU countries want to conclude any such agreement with Norway now. I do not wish to deny that there may be an interesting future perspective linked to closer cooperation between Norway and the EU in the field of renewables. Should there be enquiries from the EU or EU countries, we should be dealing with them on a sea level.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1004	Yes, I think this was both an elusive and very strange response from the Council of State, because there is so much now to suggest that such an enquiry could come from the EU as early as 2008, and this should be absolutely informed by the Council of State. Norway currently has a power generation that is barely able, even in a normal year, to supply enough electricity to the country itself. Then you can imagine what the consequences would be if we were to supply, as a regulator, perhaps half the EU with electric current. What will be the impact on Norwegian electricity consumers? I was about to say, is the Government's power policy really able to meet the challenges that tomorrow's integrated European power market will represent for Norway? Because we know we're coming. The Council of State said that we are likely to build more transmission lines to the rest of the world. Then, too, the Government has to change its power policy in order to actively meet these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1011	Here, it is important to distinguish between what is present in concrete enquiries and requests and what can be in the future. This is a field where development is ripping, so we have to be open to change. We are incredibly lucky in Norway with hydroelectric power that is adjustable. It's an unusually valuable resource, and it's going to be even more valuable for years to come. Now we are in a situation in Norway where we focus more on renewable energy that is unregulatable – the type of sun, some of which is busy, and not least on wind, for which we will have more expansion. In view of these developments in Norway, we need to have a good relationship with how to use our hydropower in the future. As of now, there is no doubt that we will need to use the regulation that is in the hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1020	Then I think I have to repeat that there is a lot of evidence now that the EU will address a request to Norway as early as next year, and that, as said, the Government should prepare for it. For the matter, the EU has ambitions to increase wind power generation, which is currently at 100 TWh, to about 100 TWh. 450 TWh in the future. They also have a goal of having approx. 34 pst. of stationary energy production as renewable energy, because wind power is so-called periodic power. It is then clear that they will not be able to do so without having access to the regulatory power, and Norway currently has nearly 50 pst. the regulatory power of Europe. That enquiry will, in my view, be guaranteed to come. I think the answer the Council of State gave now is so elusive in relation to the realities, what we have to imagine will happen, as I say, perhaps even next year. So I think the Council of States must take with it what is now going on in this case, and have a much more realistic approach to what Norway is now facing in relation to being an integrated country in European power cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1027	I'm doing exactly what the representative is asking for, I'm dealing with the realities. And the reality is that there are no enquiries, either from the EU or the EU system, that we have to deal with now. It doesn't necessarily preclude us from thinking about this, a thought that we're going to come back to Stortinget with when it's natural to do that. But my starting point is that in today's situation we are going to take good care of our adjustable force and treat it with great care. We are seagoing in a situation where we are developing a non-regulatory renewable effort. Ergo is also of exceptional importance to us in order to get our power system going. The representative can be quite calm that we'll deal with enquiries when they arrive, and there's a lot of work going on around these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1038	‘The power crisis in Central Norway will reach what Statnett calls ‘critical level’, in winter 2009-2010. Former Danish Council of State, Enoksen, promised an action plan against this crisis. Despite the promises, the Government has not taken any practical steps in addition to ordering two highly polluting and inefficient mobile power plants, which have also not received the necessary emission permits. What new concrete measures will the Government take to prevent permanent undercoverage of force in central Norway, and when will these be submitted to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1045	The government takes the vulnerability of the Norwegian power supply seriously and has been active in this area since the accession. A lot of work has been done. It is, as you will be aware, given several concessions for both gas power and hydropower projects. At the same time, the 2008 budget for energy efficiency, heat and electricity from renewable energy sources is being increased. These are important contributions to improving the power balance. Before Christmas last year, the main features of the Middle Norway Action Plan were presented. The Government’s plan to strengthen the power situation in the region is based on measures for increased transmission capacity, increased investment in energy conversion and new production, as well as other measures to ensure security of supply in central Norway. Several major network investments have been specifically linked to the expansion of the Norwegian Hydro aluminium works on Sunndalsøra and the Worm Lange extension. Statnett has invested in voltage support in the network. This will improve the transfer possibilities in and into central Norway in the autumn and next year. Statnet has also decided to invest in increased transmission capacity between Central Norway and Sweden. The line is scheduled to start operation in autumn 2009. The Ministry has this week been in contact with Statnett, which can confirm that the project is on track. This helps in isolation to improve the power situation in mid-Norway from winter 2009–2010. In addition, Statnett has submitted a concession request for a new transmission link between Sogn and More to NVE. Facilitating different types of new power generation and focusing on energy efficiency is important to improve the power situation in Central Norway. The 2008 State budget provided for a significant increase in the investment in energy conversion measures under the auspices of Enova. The overall envelope is approximately 1 450 million. kr for 2008. This is an increase of 660 million. kr from 2007. At the same time, the NVE strengthens case handling capacity and prioritises concession cases for water and wind power in Central Norway. Furthermore, the NVE has a strong focus on the effective concession treatment of generation and transfer facilities in the region. Norway has a good basis for significantly increasing environmentally friendly energy production, and we need to use energy more efficiently than we do today. The increases in the 2008 budget for energy efficiency improvement, heat and electricity from renewable energy sources will be an important contribution to achieving this. Plans for several gas power projects have been presented in Central Norway. The government is working to optimise the conditions for the realisation of new gas power projects with CO2 management. I have recently completed meetings with current developers in Central Norway. I now assess the different projects and work on achieving a gas power plant in the region. Significant efforts are being made to improve the power situation in Central Norway. A wide range of measures are being implemented, such as increased transmission capacity, increased investment in energy conversion and different types of new production, as well as other measures to ensure security of supply in the region. I follow the situation closely, and the work to improve the power situation in Central Norway will have very high priority in the future. The size will be appropriately briefed on developments, and as I have explained, things are happening in this area continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1067	I note that the new Council of State also has a tendency not to be very specific when she's going to tell me what to do with the power crisis in Central Norway. What she's saying, however, is that you're working on solving the crisis and building a gas power plant in central Norway. However, the Council of State has said earlier in this questionnaire that it is assumed to have full-scale CO2 management from day one. At the same time, it is known that the Government is now working on a project at Mongstad, which will be able to show results from full-scale CO2 management in 2014. Then I remember the time horizon for the power crisis in Middle Norway, which is 2009–2010. I'm sure a few years of lack of power, but if investment decisions are made in 2014, I'm afraid the industry has moved away from there. When does the Council of State believe that investment decisions for gas power plants in Central Norway can be taken, if full scale cleaning from day one is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1082	With all possible respect for the representative Tord Lien, my impression is that there is no overall concern about the power crisis in Central Norway that the question can give the impression of, but that one is most interested in focusing attention on gas power plants and production based on gas power plants in the area. I have answered that question in several rounds. I have recently had conversations with all three relevant manufacturers in the area. We are actively working on implementing projects in the region, and we will come back to the question of gas power plants in the area when we are ready. Our goal, as I have said repeatedly, is that there should be CO2 cleaning related to new concessions, and the starting point is cleaning from the start.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1094	So then we get gas power plants in mid-Norway in 2020. It's rare I get provoked when I'm in debates in the main hall, but I did now. So it is not the Progress Party that has put in place a strategy for taxing mini-power plants, as the Center Party of the Nations says on 31 October is too bad – as the Center Party of the Nations says on 23 October is too bad – and the Small Forces Association says today that they feel that they have failed by the Center Party. It is not the Progress Party that has ensured that hydroelectric power will not be built in central Norway! It is not the Progress Party that has ensured that one of the largest wind farms in Western Europe, namely the Outer Vicna, is not realised. It's the treasure-gim, the treasure-gim to the government, that has provided. Is it the case that the Council of State agrees that the small-scale owners around Norway, and not least around the river Gaula, who could have delivered 0.8 TWh alone in three-four years in Central Norway, are right when they say they feel that they have failed by the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1105	In the case of small energy, there are some tax proposals within the 2008 budget. That's right. And I'm the first one to admit that it has aroused reactions, among other things. at the Small Forces Association and others. The reason for this is that a note will be adopted in budgetary terms, which means that we will have a full review of all aspects of the development of small-scale energy rather than the revised national budget. The environmental aspects of the development of small power, the economic aspects and the tax aspects are to be reviewed with a view to developing and producing electricity from small power. It will be an important theme for the government parties in the months ahead, and it will come back to the matter in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1116	This question, from the representative of Mr Ingreig S. Sørfonn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1119	Let me begin by saying that I am grateful that the Council of State Solheim would answer the question in the Foreign Minister's absence. This is actually a question that hastens to clarify. The question is as follows: ‘Several Norwegian organisations collect clothing and medical devices that are then sent to Russia. Help is important, and is appreciated. Much of the transport is via Finland. Now Finland has to pay customs duties when a Norwegian trailer with help consignments crosses the border. This whole important relief work can stop. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to prevent this important relief work from being involuntarily stopped?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1128	Let me first say that both the Foreign Minister and I very much appreciate the fact that the representative Sørfonn addresses these kinds of questions on behalf of non-governmental organisations, who are making a very important effort, and who deserve that there are no bureaucratic or other obstacles to them. In particular, aid missions to Russia have been a very important feature of Norwegian-Russian relations in the past. Voluntary organisations and individuals have made considerable and worthwhile efforts. In particular, at the end of the 1990s, there was a great need for external humanitarian aid, and in those years considerable sums were provided for various measures in the budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now the situation in Russia is better in terms of organisation/economy. That's probably one of the reasons why President Putin has such a strong position in the country. Much has come into play again in a way that was not before. But there is still a great deal of poverty among parts of Russia's population, and there are many that fall outside the welfare system that exists. The wealth growth in which many Russians have participated has not been shared by everyone, and it has been unevenly distributed. But Russian society is now able to help itself and weaken groups to a greater extent than was the case if we go for example. 10 years back in time. That is why it is not the same need for humanitarian aid as in the past. This is why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs no longer contributes financially to relief missions. However, it is a fine thing that individuals in Norway want to make an effort to reach the poor part of the Russian population. The examples given here that border crossing through Finland should make this difficult are regrettable. From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have raised this matter with the Finnish customs authorities and with the Finnish foreign authorities. They indicate that under Finnish rules no customs duties are to be imposed on aid consignments in transit to Russia. Nevertheless, according to the Finnish authorities, this may be due to misunderstandings or misinterpretation of the legislation. In order for the case to be examined, it is necessary to provide detailed information on the transport(s) concerned. And in order to be very practical and to deviate a second from the script I have here, let me just suggest, simply, that the representative in contact with the help organisations concerned get put up in an e-mail or otherwise a detailed review of the problems they have encountered. Send it to me, and I will make sure that this is handled properly in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that we will get it up with the Finnish authorities and see if we can be helpful.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1139	This was very good to hear. I appreciate such an informal tone, because that's the way such things have to be solved. I can only confirm that although the situation is better in Russia, there is a very great need for these relief missions. There's a lot of demand, so the pressure from Russia to get hold of the shipments is very high. I know that there is a convention between Finland and Norway on the freedom of customs duty on relief items. This has the help organisations that cross borders, including customs authorities, but they are not willing to take care of it. So if this can get tightened up, it's very good. Help messages have been sent for a while, and some devices have been installed. It's a transit warehouse in Finland, it's in cooperation with Finnish diaconia, etc., so this is an apparatus that works. I'm very pleased with the positive signals given here, so that we can bet that this finds the solution in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1148	We have a common interest, the representative of Sørfonn and the government, in finding a solution to this, partly because there are still many relief needs in Russia – even though it is going better economically, there are a large number of Russians who need help – and partly to give a practical handshake to Norwegian citizens who make a worthwhile, idealistic effort of a kind we want more of, and not less of. They also deserve assistance and help. Of course, if we have a case with the Finnish authorities, it will always be – as in all other countries – a leap from there to the concrete enforcement of customs on the ground. We're going to do what we can to deal with this. The practical way is that these organisations then provide a detailed review of the problems they have encountered, and then we will see if the Finnish authorities respond positively to it and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1155	It's always a little dangerous to thank you again, but I almost dare to make myself a spokesman for the help organisations here. If this is possible, I would like to thank you on behalf of the help organisations, for these are those who really spend time and energy on something they believe in and burn for. When they can feel such goodwill and such help from the authorities, it is clear that they are involved and provide an unlikely inspiration in the work they are doing. It's a little unnatural, but with some reluctance, I want to thank the Council of State for the response.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1164	I have a lot of hats, but I can't promise anything on behalf of Finland – that's quite clear. But I can promise that we'll do what we can to solve these problems in a sensible way with Finland. Then we're going to hope that it carries. Thank you for a sensible and useful exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1175	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘From September 2007, monthly decisions have been introduced in the housing aid. In the Kommunal Report 22 May 2007, the municipality's Central Association claims that the municipalities will lose 120 million. in 2007 for the change. The house bank contests this in the same article and claims that the loss will only be 2 million. kr. In the Hallingdølen newspaper on 10 November 2007, it is claimed that the State at the Husbank is incurring more than 600 million. in 2007 as a consequence of the conversion. Can the Council of State explain the economic impact on municipalities in 2007?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1184	I am pleased that monthly decisions have been introduced for bus pay. The conversion was very requested by the municipalities. The size was behind the measure. The introduction means that a bus fee can be applied for every month and that a bus fee may be paid in the following month. It is also such that no one falls out of the scheme after the conversion if the household is still entitled to a bus pay. The introduction of monthly decisions ensures that disadvantaged households come into the scheme quickly, while those who do not require a bus pay fall out of the scheme more quickly. In the past, households were paid a bus pay for up to four months after the need had fallen away. Now, if households, for example, fall out of the scheme after a month. receive an increase in income as a result of participation. This is how the new arrangement is more accurate. According to the article in the Municipal Report in May 2007, it was claimed that the conversion resulted in a budgetially lower income for municipalities of 120 million. kr on a national basis. This would be due to accounting relationships. These are now resolved by the House Bank and the KS. Local authorities will not lose their financial resources on the conversion to monthly decisions. Otherwise, let me tell you that the 2008 bus fee budget has increased by 27 million. as a result of the conversion into monthly decisions. Local authorities will not lose – in some cases they will actually benefit financially from the conversion. The reason for this is that many households do not seek supplementary social assistance in the start-up phase of a continuum while waiting for a bus pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1195	I thank you for your answer. I have one follow-up question: According to the figures from the House Bank, reported in the Hallingdølen newspaper on 10 November, over 100 000 recipients had housing support for the last quarter. For a household with a initially low income, this must have been both unforeseen and uninhabitable. If the number of votes is far more than we've been suggested. Can the Council of State report on the number and impact of withdrawn housing aid in the previous quarter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1204	What I can say is that there are over 100,000 households that accept bus pay every month. What was described in Hallingdölen seemed to be based on a misunderstanding. I don't know the details of the calculations, but it may seem that the amount is based on the fact that all households who accept a bus pay before or later will fall out of the scheme – and will lose the bus pay faster than in previous legislation. While one before fall out of the scheme after four months, it now goes one month. Let me also remind you that there is a reason some households fall out of the scheme. It can be work participation, death or other conditions. But it's not right that the state has committed 600 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1218	I thank you for your answer. I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1229	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘Kingswinger fastening wears with a retardation on the maintenance. The council has been visiting, but without direct promise of money, it was signalled that you should look at the matter positively and look at the courtship building, which also needs to be rehabilitated. How far in the process has it come, and will financial resources be given to Kongswinger fortification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1238	I am very concerned about caring for and developing the national fastening plants, because they represent some of the most important state cultural memories that we have in Norway. We therefore have a clear responsibility for managing the fastenings in a good way, through, among other things. targeted maintenance, so that they appear with dignity. The Ministry’s grant to the national fastening plants shall, together with the rental income from State and civil users of the fastenings, cover the costs of safeguarding and maintaining defence buildings. On a proposal from the Government, the Stortinget decided to increase the grant from EUR 38 million. SEK in 2006 to SEK 51 million. kr in 2007. The budget was also approved in the context of the 2007 revised national budget. Twenty million. kr to the ‘Full country national fastening plant’ project. The maintenance that has been prioritized on Kongsvinger’s fastening this year has been mainly further work on the wall that crashed out in summer 2005 and lime-pushing on Slavery. Here, a total of 1.3 million is spent. kr. Further, it is, among other things, clearance of the barrier carried out. Overall, maintenance has been carried out for approx. Two million. kr in 2007. Work on the unexpected wall will be completed in 2008. In addition, the necessary health, environmental and safety measures, the maintenance of technical installations and the deforestation are planned. For the time being, measures are planned for approx. 1.5-2 million. kr in 2008. It's the government's ambition to refurbish the lay-out building on Kongswinger's fastening. Defence structures have therefore been entrusted with the task of preparing the necessary documentation for this project. The work on providing adequate evidence has taken a little longer in Defence Building than expected. Defence construction has indicated that they will submit project documentation to the department around Christmas. Then the Department will consider the recommendation of Defence Building. At this stage, it is therefore premature to say something concrete about the progress of the project and the costs of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1251	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and good response, which so far calms me down. The reason I asked the question is that the investigation has taken a little longer than the proposed one. I was a little worried that this would go into the forgotten book – and that one would also forget to set aside funds for this. Kongswinger fastening is one fastening, but we also have many other fastenings around Norway that you have to take care of. The wall that collapsed on Kongswinger’s fastening – perhaps several places on Kongswinger’s fastening – is an example of something that can also happen on other fastenings around. We have a great responsibility, and the Minister of Defence and I have a common interest in taking care of these fortifications. I knew that the investigation had taken longer than expected, so I was concerned. The Council of State now promises that this will be looked at around Christmas time and taken up again. So if the Council of State can confirm this again, I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1260	I absolutely share Mr Bredvold's concern about the defence agencies. I have traveled a lot around and looked at the different defenses, and it is quite right that the walls rage in many places. Therefore, there is an increased focus on getting back to maintenance, but this is a big boost. We have many fortifications that it is worth preserving. That's why it's important that we do a thorough preparatory work, even if it takes a little longer. After all, these fortifications are to be handed over to our descendants in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1265	I thank you for the clarification and confirmation. It is a fact that many of these fastenings have been used differently in recent years, for example: was Kongswinger’s fastening center for, among others. The Home Guard – there were people in the Home Guards all the time, and the Home Guard School had a course there. There were also some soldiers there – it was life and touch. But after reducing the number of Homeland Districts, the activity of Kongswinger’s fastening was also greatly reduced. Now you just have a small commandship, and little help. The use of Kongswinger fastening and other fastenings is therefore quite different now, and it requires a greater focus on maintenance. At the same time, some rental activities are carried out, and some conversions in this context also need to be carried out, for example. on Kongsvinger fastening. It is clear that renting out a fastening as it is today is not just, just. There are some challenges — and some costs — to obtain rental income.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1272	With regard to the use of the new-time pact fasteners, this is a work that operates on most of the fasteners, also in cooperation with local authorities and associations of interest – too many fasteners do. It's very important that we can get back to life within the walls of the fortifications. At the same time, this is very demanding, because some of the fastenings are very old, and it is difficult to get an appropriate and timely use. It also makes it quite demanding, even costly, to get this done. But this is something we focus heavily on. I will at least promise that we will follow the development of the fastenings further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1279	Tord Lien has asked a question in the previous question. It is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that he is asked another question, but the Presidency has dispensed with the rule because of various circumstances. Tord Lien gets to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1286	Thank you for that! It might actually have been tempting to hang on to the previous questioner, because the representative has written a main subject on Kongswinger's fastening. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1291	The president noted that the representative should now ask his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1294	Excuse me, President! Then I asked the question: ‘In the autumn, the bear has attacked people in the border areas twice, one attack was fatal. At the same time, both wolf and bear are increasingly observed in areas where, according to the predatory agreement, bears and wolves are not to be found. A survey published in the United Nations on 29 October this year shows that a clear majority does not want a quadrupling of the bear tribe. Does the Council of State consider that it is realistic to achieve the population target for the bear without serious consequences for the outlying industries and the quality of life for the outlying population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1303	I think it would have been interesting to hear about the main task of the representative Tord Lien and become better acquainted with him. I hope it might be an opportunity to come back to it later. The representative and I are going to have a lot to do with each other in the future. Then it's always interesting to know a little bit more about the background. Don't do that. The aim of the predatory game policy is to achieve in the long term the set stock targets for all four predatory game species, while at the same time having the objective of implementing the policy with the lowest possible level of conflict. As I explained in the Question Time on 24 October of this year, today's predatory game management is based on the principle that predatory and land-based grazing should be given different priority in different parts of the country and in different parts of the individual predatory game region. The use of economic and legal instruments shall be applied differently in the different areas, depending on whether predators or grazing is a priority. Environmental protection authorities use instruments such as harm reduction and licensing to reduce the level of damage and the level of conflict. The threshold for abstinence on bears acting in close proximity, e.g. by their being close to the settlement and not being frightened away, is today low, and so it will still be. Let me repeat this one more time, because there is such a central question for some people who have experienced this in close proximity: it is therefore a low – and it should be a low – threshold for the birth permit for the bear when it occurs nearby. Then it's to be scared away. Humans, of course, have a priority. Unfortunately, the stock target for bear of 15 annual juveniles is far from being achieved. However, in order to control the growth in the construction phase we are now in, a fall in the licence of the bear can be implemented. Four bears were killed during the fall of the year. Licensing to which ordinary hunters are released is an important part of the generalisation of the presence of predators in Norwegian nature. I have registered that a large number of hunters this year have taken advantage of the possibility to register as license hunters. Over time, this may lead to the perception of predators as a valuable resource being strengthened, thus helping to lower the level of conflict. The recent human-bear meeting has focused more on the importance of knowledge about the large predators. It is natural that these events cause fear among the population living in areas with a lot of bears, including in areas represented by the representative Lien. I will therefore, in time to come, place great emphasis on good information measures and, not least, the dissemination of knowledge on how to live safely with predators. My impression is that the administrative regime that is now established in predator management works well. In addition, the focus on prevention and conflict mitigation measures has increased significantly under the current government. A further increase of 9 million. kr has been proposed for that purpose for 2008. From this point of view, it is my view that it will be possible to achieve the population targets of the four major predatory species, including bears, while fully meeting the concerns of grazing and the quality of life of the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1322	It might have been tempting to ask the Council of State whether knowledge dissemination, how to live with the bear, will also involve how the sheep learns to live with the bear. There shall be no reply from the Council of State. Today, the nation reports that ‘the documented damage after bear has tripled from last year’ — tripled from last year. Nevertheless, the Council of State and the Government consider that the population of bear in Norway should be quadrupled. Is this level of loss – for this is not just about the quality of life of most people, but also about a threat to an entire industry – which concerns the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1329	This is an area where there are real conflicts, and it is an important task for political authorities to deal with this so that we reduce conflicts as much as possible. That's my goal, and the basis for the government's policy is the robberies deal that the Stortinget made. Of course, I am aware that the Progress Party did not participate in the agreement, but it was nevertheless a broad agreement, which included large parts of the Stortinget. And that must be the basis. The purpose of this agreement is to reconcile two things: our international commitment to care for our natural heritage – we will protect nature, we will protect in many other areas as well, but protecting the large predators is part of our commitment – while facilitating the use of land for grazing. And of course, as far as it's possible, we have to give people in outlying areas absolute security that they can live a life of full quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1334	Let me boast a little of the Government. This may indicate that the management of yours and yours is approaching a decent and sensible level. We in the Progress Party are quite clear that we must also help to take care of the large predators. The Council of State says that you want to reduce the level of conflict, and there's a bit of the core. One of the ways of reducing the level of conflict and at the same time protecting the large predators is to have a common Nordic administration and a common Nordic burden-sharing with regard to predatory policies. Because it is that neither wolf nor bear as a species is – or is in the vicinity of being – threatened. It is true that in Norway we have populations that may not be viable, but the species like them are not threatened. Bear Island opened up in the theory of a common Nordic administration. Will Erik Solheim also open up a common Nordic administration and burden-sharing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1341	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the representative Lien says so clearly that the Progress Party also wants us to take care of the four major predatory species in Norway, and have them in our nature. This gives you the basis for further dialogue on what is the right way to do it. Then I would also like to say that it is actually now that we have reached the goal – or the goal of youth – among others. for you. It provides the basis for extraction once this target has been reached. It's not that we're going to over-achieve the goal; we're going to reach the goal, and then we're going to stabilize on it. As for the relationship with Sweden, of course, we are extremely interested in cooperation with the Swedes, in the exchange of information with them. But there is one fundamental difference between Norway and Sweden. It is that Norway has widely based outreach industries in the districts, which Sweden does not have — at least not in the same way. And if I'm going to make a final statement, it's probably not the merits of the Advance Party that we in Norway have as central outing industries as we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1356	The President will again take note that the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, has also had a question earlier today. It is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, but the Presidency has decided to derogate from the Rules of Procedure because of various circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1359	It is simply because the Council of State was not present last Wednesday. That is why the question was put to the vote. The question is: ‘The government has long delayed clarifying the principle of the allocation of CO2 allowances to the gas power plant at Kårstø. When the Climate Allowance Act was discussed in June, then Minister for the Environment, Bjørnøy, was asked to clarify what is meant by ‘A quota reserve is set for new gas power plants to be based on purification and high-efficiency combined heat and power (CHP) plants with concession’. In a letter dated 15 June 2007, she replied ‘I do not want to further clarify this wording’. Can the Council of State clarify what the wording means for Kårstø?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1371	As the representative of Solvik-Olsen also mentioned, this was up in a long round of spontaneous questions. Of course I don't have a new answer now, half an hour later, it will necessarily be a repetition of what was then said. I can answer that in June this year the Stortinget passed the law on changes to the climate quota law. The law requires the establishment of a «quota reserve for new gas power plants to be based on purification and high-efficiency concessional cogeneration units». The law requires detailed rules to be laid down on the allowance reserve in the form of a regulation. The government is working on concreteising this legal provision and will shortly send to the hearing a draft regulation laying down rules on an allowance reserve for gas power plants. I can add freely to the extension of the discussion that we had, that there are two opposite approaches to the government here being criticized for – one especially from the Left and the Christian People's Party, and another from the Advancement Party. My opinion is that this question is somewhat oversized. Either a gas power plant receives a free quota or has to pay for the quota, this works will have the same incentive to try to reduce emissions, as the allowances – whether purchased or obtained free of charge – are freely tradable and can be traded in pure money. The incentive to reduce emissions should therefore be approximately the same whether one option or the other. However, there may be reasons for one or the other position, but the question is not as big as it might seem. The quota reserve will also be included in the total Norwegian emissions, so it does not affect the total Norwegian emissions, but only the composition of the Norwegian emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1385	I fully agree with the last thoughts of the Council of State. As long as you have a given quantity, a given number of allowances, in circulation, there will be no climate effect if Kårstø gets to the allowances free of charge, or if they have to buy them. But the significant difference here, which makes this an important principle and an important question to be clarified, is that it will be essential for the economy of Natural Power on Kårstø whether they have to pay for the allowances or whether they get them free of charge. A difference in expenditure between 150 and 200 million. kr and 0 kr are the same if the gas power plant is to stand and walk, or if it is to be closed. The Minister of Economic Affairs, who is present here, was opening the plant, and said it was a new chapter – it was not how much praise it was because one used Norwegian natural gas in Norway. Therefore, it is essential for Natural Forces to know what costs they receive with the climate allowances. This is relevant in relation to the level of revenue the Government is willing to waive by allocating them free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1394	As I said, I don't want to preface what we want to send out to the hearing. But I allow myself to question these doomsday scenarios that are presented here. This is an investment that has already been made, a very significant investment in Kårstø. What my experts are telling me is that it is very unlikely that the choice of one or the other solution here will have a significant impact on the amount of emissions. It is not a major environmental policy decision that is being taken. It has to be taken, and it will be taken. When our consultation draft is sent out, of course, it will be a full opportunity to comment on it. It will probably be brought up in Stortinget in some form after that. But the impression that this will be a very central environmental policy disposition for the next few weeks and months is exaggerated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1399	I think the Council of State was wrong about the undersigned and the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim. I fully agree that, in relation to Gunnar Kvassheim's argument, this is completely irrelevant, because the emissions will be the same globally. But for Kårstø gas power plants, it is essential that they get an extra bill of up to 200 million. NOK, or if they get an extra charge of NOK 0. Everyone in the industry, including Natural Power – and I think most labour party politicians too – has had the impression that the gas power plant at Kårstø would have the same framework conditions as the corresponding gas power plant in Europe, was allocated a quota of about 75-95 pst. free of charge. It would give them a cost of about 20-50 million. kr. Then it's a significant leap up to suddenly getting a bill of 150-200 million. kr, especially if it's because the Council of State doesn't think it means anything to the economy of a business if they suddenly get an extra bill of 150 million. kr. For those who live off, and they're going to make money on, what they're doing, it's actually the bottom line that counts, and then it has to be profitable, if they're going to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1408	I have full respect for the fact that Solvik-Olsen is continuing on this issue, but I hope he also has respect for the fact that I cannot give a final answer to the Storting until we present the hearing opinion on the quota reserve. Then we'll be able to take that debate, but it's nevertheless important at this point to conclude that this is not the central environmental issue in our time, as one might have got the impression in the debate in the spontaneous Question Time. If the representative Solvik-Olsen and I at least agree on that, that is something.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1417	«Norway cooperates, inter alia, with Switzerland on trade agreements with developing EFTA countries. Switzerland wishes to include in these agreements more stringent patent protection of medicinal products than is practised in the World Trade Organisation TRIPS Agreement. [[WTO]] Norway has called for flexibility in TRIPS in the WTO and will give priority to accessing cheap medicines for the poor. What is Norway’s position in this area in the EFTA negotiations, and how does the Council of States think it should be able to make an impact on our position?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1424	The purpose of including intellectual property rights provisions in trade agreements is to ensure that Norwegian actors effectively protect their intellectual property rights. It is at least as important to ensure effective enforcement of the protection, such as providing a materially high level of protection. Norway has been a driver in the WTO for establishing a system whereby developing countries can produce copies of patent-protected medicines under certain conditions to combat the spread of life-threatening diseases. The WTO initiative stems from the need for developing countries to be allowed to produce AIDS even if the drugs are patent protected. Switzerland initially countered these WTO initiatives, but once agreement was reached on TRIPS and health in the WTO, Switzerland was among the first countries to ratify and implement the agreement. Switzerland has also significantly changed its positions in recent years and is now showing a greater understanding of the needs of developing countries. Norway’s position is that trade agreements should not restrict the parties’ access to the issue of forced licences under the TRIPS Agreement. This applies to all countries, including countries that want such provisions. The Government considers that developing countries should not be pressured into accepting provisions that restrict their spaces of action under the TRIPS Agreement as regards patent protection, protection of confidential test data and plant variety protection. This is a continuation of the policy pursued by former governments. In the Soria Moria declaration, we have also stressed that consideration of cheap medicines for life-threatening diseases in poor countries must be given a crucial importance to international negotiations on patent rights. The other EFTA countries respect Norwegian policy and therefore do not force developing countries to accept TRIPS plus elements in trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1441	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State shall attend the EFTA Ministerial Meeting at the beginning of December. I wonder what is going to be discussed at this ministerial meeting, and if you will agree on what is going to be the EFTA negotiating position in relation to TRIPS. It is important to clarify this before Norway chooses to enter into negotiations with, for example: India, where we know that there are more than 200 million poor. We must not get into a situation, as the Council of State also said in its reply, where one reduces access to medicine in poor countries. My question is whether this will be a discussion at the ministerial meeting in December.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1450	That's absolutely right. I'm not just going to attend, but I'm going to run that meeting. Norway has now chaired the EFTA, without paying as much attention to it as to the countries that have chaired the EU at all times. Nevertheless, trade agreements are one of the permanent themes of the EFTA ministerial meetings. As my first answer showed, the principles that I use are already a prerequisite for EFTA. Questions are raised about TRIPS plus – as mentioned above – in some negotiations with some countries, but there are already such agreements, either internationally or bilaterally, with others. So we've already had an impact in EFTA so that we don't force countries into that kind of agreement. Here I am convinced that the attitude of the previous government and the current government is so similar that this is one of the areas where we cannot say that there have been changes in policy – at least not towards pushing poor countries harder than what is otherwise done in negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1461	I thank you for the answer, and I also thank you for the fact that there are no changes at this point. In addition to the negotiations with India, Norway is now taking part in EFTA negotiations with Colombia and Peru. A pilot study on Indonesia has also been completed. There are potential challenges here on the very topic we have discussed today – the liberalisation of financial services, public acquisitions and investment, as well as the issue we have discussed today on patent rights. My question to the Council of State is whether he will inform the Storting about the content of these negotiations, and when they concluded the preliminary studies on India and Indonesia will be published, so we know what the outcome is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1470	It is our hope that the feasibility study on India can be concluded and that we can start concrete negotiations as soon as possible. This would be a significant contribution to, inter alia: the Norwegian maritime sector and other sectors with good trade relations with India. TRIPS can be about a lot more than what was the starting point for the question, medicine, to which my answer was linked. There are reasonable demands for a non-national producer of ‘Swiss made watches’, for example, so that part of what is about protection is seen as reasonable requirements. So, with regard to the questions that the representative originally asked about, our practice is that if the country has other agreements that go beyond what the WTO says, we have the opportunity to address the question. But we agree not to impose the kind of solutions in the negotiations we have. It'll also be the line that goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1479	Then we go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1486	‘More schools in Oslo have recently reported serious violence episodes that have taken place in the school’s community. Such events have, in particular, taken place immediately after school leaving, or when students have moved outside the school area. Those behind this are under the criminal paranoid and almost exclusively youth gangs with immigrant backgrounds. Schools as well as the police are desperate, but they are without sanctions. What action will the Council of State take to stop this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1493	I will initially be allowed to point out that the Government attaches great importance to creating good and safe growth conditions for children and young people. This is what will be the important work to prevent just what the query points to. We believe in our government statement that we will strengthen prevention through good cooperation between school, child protection, police and the community. I do not share the questioner's view that there is no penalty for those who are minors. There is just reason to point out that it is important to apply the possible responses. That is why it is important for me to facilitate a reinforced effort to stop the development of a criminal career in young people as early as possible. The government is on track to achieve the goals we have in the Soria Moria Declaration. I would like to mention that in Norway we have never used as much resources in the police as we do today. Never before have we had so many policemen and women working, and never before have we had such a highly educated police force. I am also pleased that we now have a record at the Police College that is record high, if we are to evaluate a ten-year period. There will be important resources for, among others: to work against the requester. The police's preventive action is particularly targeted at children and young people at risk of crime. Local initiatives are important in strengthening prevention efforts. In order to take advantage of the strength of local knowledge, police councils are established in most municipalities where they find it appropriate – cooperation between police, local politicians and local government. This will be an important forum for addressing questions of the nature of the query. I would also like to point out that the government's criminal policy is holistic and knowledge-driven. Police therefore need to monitor crime and disorder and work in a problem-oriented manner. Oslo police districts will make the entire Oslo city safe for its residents, including: by increasing the daily presence of areas exposed to crime and disorder. I have been informed by the Oslo police district that they are putting great emphasis on identifying conflicts between the various youth groups, and that they are working hard and continuously against the school environments, which is the topic of the issue. Greenland and Manglerud police stations work together to give priority to conflict resolution to end the incidents between groups from different parts of the city. Enhanced patrols are carried out in specially exposed locations, including: at the Manglerud Police Station, where the entire station has focused attention on youth groups. There is a job that you can do regardless of whether you are under or over 15 years of age. This may be especially important to prevent recruitment. I would also like to point out that a good cooperation between the police and the Municipality of Oslo has been developed. There is every reason to give honor to both the police in Oslo and to the Municipality of Oslo for the efforts of that cooperation. For example, the educational establishment in the municipality of Oslo has: in Circular No. 4/2004 to schools on police reports, etc. in the case of school-related offences, highlighted cooperation with the police and that criminal offences should be reported. In addition to the notification, it is also necessary to assess the implementation of relevant measures to assist both the victim and the offender. The school is also obliged under the Training Act § 15-3 to notify the Child Protection Service. There is therefore no possibility of sanctions. Inter-disciplinary and inter-territorial cooperation meetings are held on the part of the municipality, with all those working with young people meeting once per year. months. In this work, municipal outreach contacts have a central role. In addition, there are acute call-in teams for the management of acute episodes requiring rapid action. Different forms of mediation and big meetings have been used. I am pleased that the Stortinget, including the Progress Party, agrees that the use of conflict advice should be stepped up. It's a cross-political effort on the part of Stortinget. This happens in Oslo, among others. in cooperation with the Red Cross, while the so-called ‘renovative justice’ methods are being tried where appropriate. It's very good results we're seeing in the youth community just when it comes to that kind of mediation. It has given many good results. One has managed to dampen the desire for conflict, even though there are some people who need to work more. By the Municipality of Oslo, conflict management networks are to be set up in several parts of the city, with a view to strengthening the community's efforts. On the part of the police, we want to move on with the course for out-of-office contacts in Oslo in conflict resolution, in order to strengthen the prevention work towards this part of the youth. I would also like to mention briefly that the SLT work, the coordination of local crime prevention measures, is in good hands, and the prerequisites for further establishment are probably better now than ever. The government therefore facilitates the introduction of the SLT model in most of its municipalities and the mutual stimulation of police councils and SLTs. Some schools have their own police contact, while others have been chosen elsewhere from a local assessment The Government Declaration also highlights the necessary work for a tolerant, multicultural society, in which everyone should have the same rights, obligations and opportunities regardless of ethnic or religious background. In many cases, Norway will become a more socially rich society, where the fight against discrimination, prejudice and racism is necessary in order to provide a good basis for all to participate in society on equal terms. This also implies obligations. Relationships that involve children and young people in crime directly discourage our efforts to integrate those who have a different ethnic background from Norwegian. When situations arise where children and young people with a migrant background commit violence and harassment, this is also serious for their ability to be integrated into Norwegian society. There should be a quick and cash response in these kinds of cases. The Children’s Protection Act is today the only basis for coercive action against children under criminal sanctions, but other voluntary measures can contribute to rehabilitation. I have mentioned some of them. So I would like to mention that the police are now at the heart of administrative cooperation with follow-up teams, which are being tested concretely through four projects in Oslo, Trondheim, Stavanger and Kristiansand. Here you just want to reach those who are under criminal detainees. The prosecution authority and the conflict councils shall participate in this cooperation together with the relevant local relief services, the youth itself and their parents and representatives. Work experience shall provide knowledge of the necessary elements in the overall follow-up of each young offender and make any need for changes visible. In conclusion, I would like to say that the initiative that the Government has initiated with regard to taking the crowds in Oslo with more nuanced instruments and enhanced power, has obviously produced good results. It is also important to prevent the recruitment of younger people. You have to learn that if you go into criminal activity, for example. to get a nice car, nice jewellery and a lot of money. I think that's effective prevention. There is a wide range of prevention that I could have talked about for a long time — but these are some of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1523	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He said he could have lasted a long time. I think he kept on for quite a long time. He talked a lot about prevention. So have previous governments. The point is that my question isn't about what's going to happen to the next generation, but about the generation that is actually living now, those who are harassing and doing violence and warfare at school and against students, people are making cell phones, raids, etc. The cases I take up apply, among other things. Majorstuen school and Fagerborg school, but also other schools in that area of the city right now — probably also elsewhere in the city. I've had a meeting with the police myself in the Major Room, and they're asking for concrete measures, for example. being able to search for 14-year-olds without parental consent, patrolling at the end of school — in fact, they do not have the money to do so — bans on these gangs in the event of repeated infringements. They want regular meetings between the police, child protection and school, and that this is initiated in cooperation between the state and the municipality, so that we make this work. These are concrete measures that they do not have today, but that they want to do, and that the Council of State did not have. In addition, they want police posts outsourced, so that they can move out quickly when something happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1532	I would like to show that some of the things that have been proposed have the full opportunity to do today within the existing law. Some of the proposals I think should be looked at more closely, especially the last representative points to – police posts in Oslo. It was the previous government that chose to lay down a good deal of police posts. I don't think there was any chess. So the government is now working on a policing plan, and police posts in Oslo are at the heart of that thinking. I think it's important to get close, especially to the groups we're talking about here. At the same time, as I stated in the answer, there is a very good cooperation between police and child protection in the municipality, here in Oslo. There is also something on which to build, because there is a means of responding to this group. But I'm open to discussing several suggestions, just to bring this kind of behavior to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1539	The focus must be on those who suffer from this, not those who actually commit these acts. In Sweden, youth institutions have been established for those falling between child protection and possible prison sentences. Is there anything the Council of State also wants to look at, so that we can get some away from the places where they commit these crimes, as I would call it, and put them in juvenile institutions, so that they get away from the environment where they obviously don't have the good of being? It is important that society is fully behind those who are plagued, and not behind those who are plagued. I have gone to school in Oslo myself, and when I went to school, there were no people at all traveling around in this way and tormented fellow students in other schools – it is clear that immigration has had negative consequences. Does the Council agree that immigration has had negative consequences? And does the Council of State agree that this is the price we have to pay for the large-scale immigration we have had, especially to Oslo, in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1548	This is a comprehensive question. On the issue of immigration, I would like to say that I do not want to express myself in such a way that it is immigration as such that has led to serious crime in society. In Norway, it is still the case that the largest proportion of crime is committed by us Northmen, although we see that certain immigrant groups are overrepresented in some criminal acts. But it is not immigration as such that has led to this. I believe that we have great challenges in terms of how we integrate, and to what extent we prevent, among other things. Younger boys from abroad drop out of high school very quickly. I agree with the argument about getting a victim's perspective. The victims are concerned about avoiding such actions in the future, and the victims are concerned about preventing them. So this is not consideration for or for, but I think we can serve the victims' cause by being faster and more clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1557	Then we go back to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1565	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘The Council of State claims in letters to the undersigned that the traffic on the Oslo network is now so close that it is not possible to implement even the smallest changes to the timetable. When the timetable was changed in June, this led to a worsening situation for travellers from some stations. The transport situation in the Oslo area is chaotic. In such a situation, local trains must take precedence over the train network. Will the Council of State contribute to the provision of a good route on the Oslo rail network by giving priority to local transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1574	The rules for prioritisation between different types of trains in scheduling are laid down in the so-called rules of allocation. It'll work, among other things. Until the regulation that, if there is no room for all trains, the railway works shall distribute the capacity in such a way as to take the greatest possible account of the importance of transport to society in relation to other transport, which is thereby excluded or displaced. There are also fixed guidelines that give precedence to publicly purchased local passenger traffic and other passenger trains purchased by the State. The only exception to this principle is on the route Asker-Gardermoen, where the accommodation services of Oslo Airport – under the control of the Flytrain – have the same priority as the public purchased passenger services. These rules will therefore help to ensure that the local passenger traffic by train in the Oslo area is best preserved on the basis of the given capacity of the network. Large parts of the Norwegian network are heavily loaded, as large parts of the traffic occur on single tracks. Railway station timetablers are continuously developing the best possible routes for freight and passenger trains. If the railway works are required to change their practices so that passenger trains are given additional advantage, this could lead to the railway not being able to accept more of the heavy traffic from road, which would break with the objective of transferring goods from road to road. Increased investment in railway infrastructure is the only permanent way to resolve the capacity situation in the Oslo area, and this is well under way by the dual-track development of the intercity triangle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1583	I am in no way satisfied with the answer given by the Council of State. As stated in the question, the Railway Agency and the NSB have made changes that have given passengers on Eidsvollsbanen a significantly lower offer in the last six months. I find that regrettable because this is the region in the country that is growing most strongly. There are several municipalities in the area that have over 3 pst. growth in the year, which means that the capacity of the railway is now not at all involved. I have also previously mentioned the possibility that commuters can avail themselves of the airline's offer, which has been requested by the commuters. That is why I think that the Council of State should respond more clearly to whether she will contribute to a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1592	It is such that the concrete situation that I believe is the background to the representative's question has little to do with the priority of train types. It is about track 2 at Frogner station being closed due to the safety of this station, at the change of route in June 2007. This meant that all trains to stop had to run in track 1. And as a consequence of the already tight route on the commuter section of Kongsberg-Eidsvoll, it was not possible to stop at Leirsund and Lindeberg. Instead, the Drammen–Dal route was stopped on Leirsund and Lindeberg. So the consequence for the travelers is that they lose the direct route to the Gardermo, but they have otherwise been given a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1597	In a letter to the undersigned, the Council of State has indicated that there are reasons for capacity which make it impossible for trains already running on this route today to stop. It doesn't have much to do with the change at Frogner Station, although it probably has some meaning. But this will only take a few extra minutes to stop these trains. Then I mean that train from Lillehammer, or for example. Rather, freight traffic on this route should be able to take a few more minutes, so that commuters in this area receive an offer sufficient to match the expectations of the population. This has also meant that the railway works are not able to follow up with sufficient parking spaces at the stations, which means that the capacity is completely detonated and there is complete chaos.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1604	It is wrong what the representative says, that this is not related to the situation after the closure of Track 2 at Frogner Station. It's got it. If all trains running on track 1 were to stop, it would in practice mean delays of up to one minute, which continue to reproduce, and that would mean that one would not reach the split station in time for the crossing to take place there. This is a very complicated system, where one minute might seem like a very short time. But in this system, it's a very long time, and it has huge consequences. The long-term goal is, of course, that we should get back a good offer as well as the travelers on Lindeberg and Leirsund want, but we are forced to build up the capacity before we do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1615	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘More examples show that the marketing of smaller travel life goals is often done through collective grips around given road sections, such as the Bjørnson Road through Gausdal. [[rv. 255]] This example shows that it is often problematic to get a sign from the nearest main artery, here E6. The road authority of the State refers to restrictive sign code. Will the Council of State take the initiative in embellishing the sign code so that this type of signage is possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1624	A more liberal approach to road and service signs has been introduced through the new signage regulation – and with the new signage standards – which was launched on 1 June last year. Among other things, we have been given better opportunities for good and informative signage than before. However, as the arbitration authority for this type of signage, the State Road Service must make a distinction between different considerations, where the amount of information and road safety are the most important. By default, the number of display targets can be distinguished from the number of traffickers. For road safety reasons, the number of display targets that can be identified on each display layout is limited to five or six. Where there are many geographical targets that must also be displayed, there could be little space for signs showing the way to a service activity. Where there is more desire for signage than the legislation allows, a priority must be given. In situations where there are too many viewing targets in a crossroads, alternative ways of showing paths to service activities can be used. For example, a set of information boards can be set up in the space of a break. In some cases, a new sign called "Separator for Road View" may be used. This sign shows you which locations or actions you can reach by following a common path in the next checkbox or runout. On such a pool, a list of the activities and the services you can offer can now be obtained by following the description of a common name - it is a common name for the actions, a geographical name or an outline that expresses the type of activity or attraction that the lease is for. One example of this is the signage from E6 to "Golden Way" on Inderøy in the North-Trande Team, where "The Golden Way" is a collective operation for many different activities that have a common organisation. When it's about the Bjørnson Road, it's after what I've been told, a name like that. are seen to market the district around rv. 255. The Road Service shall not initially introduce such names in the Road View, in accordance with the rules of the City Name Law. The Directorate of Roads has made exceptions to some well-informed names. I think it would be unfortunate if we put ourselves on a line where marketing and advertising are the most important motive for signage. The road service shall seek to find good and acceptable solutions. Although the rules do not always allow the primary request for a sign to be fulfilled in the form for which it is applied for, one will often be closed to find alternative and satisfactory solutions. In the light of the above, I do not see the need to review the rules for this type of sign-up. The legal framework is only two years old – and the implementation of liberalisation was one of the objectives of a new sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1644	I'm not going to hide that I'm a little disappointed with the Council's response. Sign problems are subject to irritation in very many contexts. I think that in the examples where we have a common grip, there should be opportunities for a more liberal practice. There are many small businesses here that gather about a solution where they can make their offerings visible. I do not think the marketing argument is particularly good in relation to this. The most important thing about signage must be that you can simply get information about where you are going. It is possible that the rules from 1 June last year will open up a more liberal practice. Unfortunately, that is not the experience out there, according to some feedback that I have at least received. I think it must be absolutely necessary to get to a greater room of discretion and a softer approach to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1653	I certainly believe that a more liberal practice has been put in place. Experience with this practice is not so long that it is a year since these rules were introduced. We'll have to gather a little bit more experience before we rethink whether to change the sign code. The important thing about signage is, of course, that one should recognize the paths that are marked on the map. Above all, it's about the road number. The reason why one is restrictive is, of course, about road safety, that attention should be paid to the road and not to a quantity of signs in border countries between information and advertising for service provision along the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1660	This isn't about a lot of signs. Here, the exact angle of incidence is that it's possible to put this together into some headings. I can't believe that, for example. The Golden Way is somewhat more descriptive or less commercial than the Bjørnson Road. The Bjørnson Road is then quite a good description on the way to Aulestad, where Bjørnson lived and moved to and from. We see that the practice here is pretty square. It must probably mean that the room for discretion in these contexts is too small. In the specific exit we're talking about, it's two to three signs – one where it says Gausdal, one where it says the Espedal, and thus an opportunity to refer to the Bjørnson Road. When we hear from the Road Service in Uppland that there is no room to get up such a sign, I don't think it's because of the evil will of the Road Service. Then I think it's just that the law doesn't provide the necessary discretion. There I think it must be possible to do something without going over the whole legislation as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1667	Some rules give room for understanding. That's the way it is. In this case, the authority responsible for divorce has been delegated to the Road Administration of the State. If this road, which is not that long since I ran on – in a beautiful area with many exciting attractions – should get such a sign, I will not mean anything today. I thought that dialogue should be between the local authorities, stakeholders and the state road network. In the divorce code you have today, there is room for it if the organisation is done in a unified way. The special feature of "The Golden Way" is that one has an organization for everything along that road, and so a decision has been made that they get their sign. I think that local stakeholders need to continue to have a good dialogue with the State Road Service to find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1676	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The situation of road users in connection with the extension of the tunnels to the E134 over Haukeli has become unsustainable. The regularity of the columns set up does not go as intended and it is night-closed. Fishing transport must wait up to 6,5 hours. Driving/rest time is difficult and business is not allowed to last at certain times. What will the Council of State do to improve the conditions of this important link west-east?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1685	I'm saying that E134 over Haukeli is an important East–West relationship. In order to improve communication between the State Road Service, the community and the truck industry, a briefing meeting was held at the Røldal branch building on 7 November. The state road authority briefed on the ongoing work on the tunnels and indicated that it was necessary to close the tunnels for a short or longer time because the repair work was extensive. This is of course the case even after I instructed the State Road Administration to carry out much less extensive upgrading of the tunnels than it had been planned. Truck industries and the rural population came at the meeting with constructive proposals to improve road safety for road users. With effect from 15 November, new and extended opening hours for traffic have been introduced. These new opening hours apply until 15 December, when the work is completed. After that, the tunnels will be open to traffic all day. The haukeli tunnel will be open to free movement, but will have route-wise narrowings with traffic diversion. Røldalstunnel has expanded opening hours, with continuous column running from 06.30 to 12.00, free movement from 12.00 to 20.00 and a column in the evening from Håradalen with return from Seljestad. At night, there will be an extra column from east to west following the express bus at 04:45. From Saturday at 6:30 a.m. to Sunday at 8:00 p.m., the tunnel is open for traffic. In order to ensure the emergence of the Røldalstunnel bypass, rv. 13 Brattlandsdalen, there will be increased winter drift on the route. Until 15 December, there will be an extra ferry between Sand and Ropeid, even at night. The old town of Røldalsberglet has been useful as a re-routing route for passenger cars, but it was linked on 15 November by concern for weather and traffic conditions and road users’ safety. I hope that these actions will ensure a safe and effective appearance of E134 on Haukeli.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1698	I thank you for your answer. The work of expanding the Haukeli tunnels has a long and painful history, as the Council of State knows well. The short and long term is that when work was delayed further, so that it was not completed during the summer season, it is necessary to facilitate flexible, appropriate and, not least, predictable solutions. The right considers that it must be possible to introduce an approximate route, i.e. with fixed opening times, with a defined starting time and with an indication of the length of time it is open, from the east, before closing and opening the corresponding period from the west. Is the Council willing to contribute to such a simple, practical and predictable arrangement, which can and should, of course, be advertised, signed and posted on the websites?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1705	I mean, the opening times that are now in place, which will be continuous through the season, are perpetuating. The press release has been sent out about this. It has been published on the website of the Federation of LAGs for the transport of nutrients. There are ads in Haugesund's newspaper, Vest-Telemark Sheet and Hardanger Folkeblad. The state road service has provided information on its homepages and, of course, the road traffic centres have this information. Both the traffic message pages, the project's own pages and the West Region have the same information. So I don't see why this isn't bad. I believe that we have now received a scheme that should be able to satisfy both the commercial transport and other transport services along the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1710	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Minister for Transport takes this seriously and that she has good intentions. But the problem is that this doesn't really work as described. I stand here with several e-mails from carriers that describe other matters, i.e. where this is not predictable, and that you get these delays that are so unfortunate. It is true that Haukelifjell is actually one of the most trafficked mountain passes in Norway. There are a lot of transports of fish, which are fresh, and that's why this is going to be very unfortunate. Does the Minister for Transport understand the frustrations of carriers and drivers who are trying to drive under driving and rest conditions and who are doing their best to get the food as fresh as possible to the markets?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1719	Of course, the Council of State understands that it is difficult to come up on the mountain net after a column has passed. The dilemma for those who run the column is that we have varying behaviors, varying weather conditions, and setting up a kind of ferry route can also, in my view, be a source of irritation – insofar as it is not possible to follow the times that have been set up. Free movement is now in place at 2.30 p.m. 12.00 to 20.00. There's a column set up in the evening, so it's a column run at noon. 06.30 to 12.00. It is within this column run that one can risk getting a waiting time. It is, however, not insurmountable. It is possible – as the Council of State has also done once in the mountains – to call and get informed when the column is in one place or another. Then you get information from those running a broken car.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1730	This is also a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The protection of persons is under strong attack. Laws and regulations are broken and amended by both the Norwegian authorities themselves and as part of Norway’s almost reservation-free EU adaptation. The Government has appointed a Data Protection Commission, but it will take many years for any proposal to be incorporated into the law. In the meantime, attacks on privacy continue, including in the transport sector. How will the Council of State ensure and protect privacy in its sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1739	The collection and storage of personal data takes place in many of the Ministry of Transport’s areas of responsibility. Privacy is a key asset in modern societies. It is important that privacy issues are captured at an early stage by the introduction of new technologies and travel hijackers. I stress that this must apply both in the department's work and in the offices and companies in the field, both private and state doctors. EU alignment, to which the representative refers in the question, follows through the Norwegian accession to the EEA Agreement, an agreement for which the Progress Party is essentially voiced and against which the Centre Party has voiced its opposition. Without regard to the EEA Agreement, it is more important that the Government in its work on the Agreement is not unreserved, as it is called in the question. The government is pursuing an active European policy, which involves a much more critical and ongoing attitude from the Norwegian side towards the EU at different stages of affairs than before. One side of the policy is also to exploit the space for national adaptation of EU legislation. This includes: where data protection issues are at the heart of a number of issues. The Ministry of Transport will give extensive publicity to the privacy of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. This message will be submitted by the end of 2008 on schedule. The question will be referred to the Privacy Commission. In this context, I would like to point out that the Commission intends to present its report at the end of 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1750	Thanks for the answer. It's true that the Council of States refers to us being bound by international agreements. But just as fully — and this has also been emphasised by the Council of State — it is important that early in such a process related to international agreements, the final outcome is involved and affected. Satellite tracking of cars is one of the things that are on the stairs. If the European Commission receives what it wants, it should be possible to track all new cars using satellite. Is it actually the case that Norway has given a kind of prior approval for such a system, that Norway has actually signed an intention agreement to set up such a scheme, which means that, if you want, the authorities can have a full overview, full ‘call’ — that is, eCall — of where all cars are at all times? Have we approved this in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1759	It is an increasing challenge to take care of privacy in all areas. Of course, the Government does not grant blank powers without consulting the Storting, either in this case or in other matters. In the process, of course, the Storting will be consulted on such important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1764	I thank you again for the answer. Privacy is broken and violated in many ways. We know excessive privacy and privacy measures from aviation in Norway. Norwegian air passengers have recently been challenged by the state company Avinor, as to save four seconds per. passenger will initiate a test project using body scanners. The Chief Data Protection Officer calls it repugnant. I even think it is grossly offensive and goes far into the personal sphere. Now I am aware that Avinor is currently stopping this testing, but my follow-up question to the Council of State is: Will she ensure that this action is permanently stopped, that not only testing is stopped, but that the whole action is actually stopped on a permanent basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1771	I am not aware of Avinor's future plans for this. I am aware that one has stopped testing a project as a desire to see if it could make the security check more effective at airports. I share the attachment of the representative of Sortevik far on the road. There must be at least a voluntary arrangement for a will to go on with it. Because of the reactions that have occurred, Avinor has stopped testing. I've told Avinor that I expect, if one wants to go on with it, that the department is properly consulted. Then I will probably bring both Blackevik's recordings and my own somewhat restrictive statements in that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1782	I will also ask questions to the Minister for Transport: «The Glamdalen covers on 13 October the opening of a new line on rv. 2 from Klöfta to Nybakk. In the same article, the Road Director of the East Region is quoted as hoping that she will not have to wait so long for a clear signal for the next stage that the project organisation has to be shut down. Can the Council of State reassure the district of Glamdal to ensure that the project is not delayed to the end of the project organisation and thus prevent continuous development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1791	After the new four-field road on rv. 2 between Klöfta and Nybakk was opened on 12 October, the State Road Administration has decided to start construction of the next stage as soon as the financing is secured by managing a toll proposition in Stortinget. The stage extends from Slomarka to Kongsvinger in the south of Odal and Kongsvinger municipalities, and is part of the construction of a continuous four-field road on Rv. 2 between the Cliff and Kongswinger. This is in line with the priorities set out in the National Transport Plan 2006–2015 and the Action Programme for the Tribal Road Network 2006–2009. Before the Government can promote a proposition on the matter, approved regulatory plans must be in place. The project must then, through an external quality assurance, KS2, in the same way as all State investment projects over 500 million. kr. The regulation schedules are not yet adopted, as recording of automatically saved cultural memory has not been completed. The Riksantikvaret has set out a requirement for the planning area to be fully examined and released for development before the finalisation of the regulatory plans. In order to be able to handle a proposition in the spring 2008 session, the Swedish Road Administration has applied to the Riksantikvaren for a derogation from these requirements. I would like to make it clear that clarifications about the obligation to investigate cultural monuments are a matter between the State Road Service and the cultural memory administration, but I have argued that the state road service, regardless of the outcome of the case, facilitates the fastest possible further progress with the preparation of the forthcoming development of RV. 2 between Nybakk and Kongswinger.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1802	I thank you for the answer, which was a review of where the matter stands. It also says in the Glaum Valley that the archaeological excavations are the challenge. I see the Minister of Transport as positive, and that there is all the strength here to achieve continuous development. It will also cost a lot for the project if you start moving the project organisation. What's very important is that rv. 2 has sub-capacity today. This is a central trajectory for the whole district. It's also a trajectory for the entire Nordic triangle. It's kind of interesting to get involved in the debate. I have noticed that there was a press release from the Norwegian Minister for Transport and the Swedish Minister for Transport in October, which places much more emphasis on cross-border transport infrastructure. I think that is important to note, because the Nordic triangle is also an interesting project from an EU perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1811	I agree with the representative of Gundersen that the project will be more expensive if one has to postpone the launch. Now it is the case that the Minister of Culture cannot instruct cultural memory authorities in any way; ergo there is an issue between the State Road Service and the Cultural Memory Administration if one can carry out the project without waiting for all reports to be completed before the regulatory plan decision can be taken. If no such scheme is provided, plant start may have to be postponed from half a year to one year. That's how things stand, and I don't have the ability to provide it. I have given clear information that the case should of course be dealt with as quickly as possible independently of the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1820	I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Transport puts all his weight behind it in order to get as rapid an expansion as possible. I think she is already aware that there is a considerable pressure in the district to try to complete the whole line before the goal – 2017, I think. There is local pressure to get this done by 2014. That's now one thing. The second is that it has to be possible to get to a partial start at least. There are surveys there today. There should be opportunities for at least maintaining the entire organisation and continuous development. It's an important signal from the entire district.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1827	I'm recording the signal from the representative of Gundersen and the district. I'm also made up in what was said in the previous post, simply about the cross-border connection we have, and the emphasis on it. I have a very good cooperation with my Swedish colleague Åsa Torstensson. We will also have more meetings in the future just to discuss how best to ensure good corridors between our two countries, which is important for both Norway and Sweden in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1836	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In parallel with the fact that the Council of State talks about the introduction of a rush-time charge in the large cities, there is little public transport. The reward scheme has been reduced by covering several cities without increasing the funds accordingly, and several important local train sections are being pushed out in time. What are the plans of the Council of State in terms of public transport spending in our major cities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1845	Initially, I would like to stress that both state and local authorities are responsible for ensuring that road users receive a good collective service. I'm not saying that there's a little interest in public transport. The government proposes a government grant of nearly DKK 11 billion for 2008, with SEK 1.6 billion for the purchase of public passenger transport services by train and DKK 5.8 billion for investment, operation and maintenance of the network. Near SEK 1.5 billion of this will ensure the rational progress of the Lysaker station, double-track Lysaker – Sandvika and double-track Sandnes – Stavanger projects. About 900 million. Road transport has been proposed for the benefit of public transport, of which 710 million. kr tolls. About 230 million. kr is granted a special allowance for public transport, about SEK 1.5 billion for the purchase of national road transport services, about SEK 290 million. kr for the purchase by the State of the Bergen–Kirkenes maritime transport service and approximately 500 million. NOK for the purchase of air route services. In addition to these state funds and toll means, county funds are allocated to local public transport. In 2006, the municipalities and the municipalities of Oslo paid more than $5 billion for public transport. The largest collective effort takes place in Oslo, Akershus and Bergen. The counties finance public transport by means of framework subsidies from the state. In 2006, the municipalities and the municipalities of Oslo paid more than SEK 5.5 billion for car routes, county road ferries, boat routes, transport for disabled persons and trams and suburban railways. In the municipality of Oslo, more than $1 billion was allowed for public transport in Oslo. The local economy is strongly strengthened under this government, and the county authorities’ ability to invest in public transport is thus better than for a long time. The reward scheme for better public transport and less use of cars was introduced in 2004 in order to make more people in the larger cities choose public transport over their own cars. An evaluation of the scheme shows that public transport has been strengthened in the urban areas concerned during the period, but the scheme has not brought about any significant changes in local transport policy through stricter restrictions on the use of cars, such as: parking. The evaluation proposes the continuation and strengthening of the mechanism of concentration of funds. The government has already agreed that the reward scheme or the corresponding scheme should be strengthened, cf. St.meld. No 34 for 2006-2007, Norwegian climate policy. The government will come back with an evaluation of this. in the main national transport plan notification for the period 2010–2019. It is wrong that the reward scheme has been reduced. She's on the contrary strong. In St. prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, in line with the evaluation report, it is proposed that Drammen, Skien-Porsgrund and Fredrikstad-Sarpsborg should also be able to apply for the reward scheme. The government will share the funds for 2008 in line with the growth achieved for public transport. Depending on the applications, it is appropriate to focus funds on fewer cities than today, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 2007-2008, page 133. The government proposed a run of 161.7 million. kr to the 2008 scheme. Collective transport, especially in the larger urban areas, is both an independent and necessary means of transport for large groups of people and an important tool for reducing the use of own cars. According to the 2005 travel survey, about 20 pst. of daily travel in Oslo collective travel. The corresponding figures for Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger are about 10 pst. and 6 pst. for medium-sized cities. It would not be possible to slow down the growth of car traffic without using both positive and restrictive measures. Verchemidla is well known: improve collective provision, increase specific frequency and improve the emergence of cow pricing in large cities with capacity problems facilitating the cross-border core network of health care universal design restrictive parking policies, especially in the case of workplace land use that minimises the need for private car use; Most of these measures are not directly controlled by the state. However, the State is responsible for national transport policy, even where the responsibility for the means and budget lies with other levels of administration. This responsibility is exercised, among others: by strengthening municipalities and monitoring their finances, by state leadership through directives, regulations and administrative provisions, incentive and reward schemes and direct State funding of actions and projects. Transport networks and Avinor will have a wide range of challenges and proposals for action for large urban areas in their submission to the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. This will be an important basis in the Government’s efforts to promote its own key message on the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, with a view to managing it in the spring of 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1891	I thank you for a long and meaningful answer. The state councils are often out in the media talking about rush time taxes and replenishes the need tax in Stockholm. To the extent that there is a success — it is discussed, as we both know — one of the success criteria was that a very good collective offer was built up in advance. As I see it, the Council of State is going the opposite way. She does not follow up on the evaluation that says that more effort needs to be made on the reward scheme, and I understand that she has now commissioned an inquiry on cow pricing from the Transport Economics Institute – TØI. So my question to the government council is, wouldn't it be smart, while you're waiting for this investigation from TØI, which I've read about in the media, to invest more in public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1900	As I did well in my main reply, this government is investing more in public transport than any government has ever done at this time. We are more committed to rail, which is perhaps the most important thing – building double tracks in the intercity triangle and by the big cities, i.e. Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim. We buy services on the railway for 1.1 billion kroner a year, and as I said, we invest at a faster rate than before. We also have a good dialogue with local authorities, not least here in Oslo, through the work of Oslopackakt 3, to facilitate a stronger commitment to public transport under what is then the municipality and in this case the municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1909	I thank you again for the answer. Both the Stoltenberg I Government and both the Bondevik Governments used alternative use of public highway vehicles for public transport. I have received signals from Oslo that this government does not continue this practice. One concrete example is the Bogstadwegen, which is a highway, where only money is used for asphalt and not for tugs, as opposed to what the Bondevik II government did. Is this a new practice, and is it wise to do so in the light of the environmental challenges we face?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1916	As I did well in the main response, a lot of means of public transport is being used today. This has been done in the past, and I have not changed the policy. I also said the same thing quite clearly in my head answer, so I don't think we need to get closer to it. Of course, that is what we do in close cooperation with local authorities. In the big cities, this is often about urban packages, such as Oslopackak 3 and the Bergen Package, where one sees the whole transport system in context, including road development, road solutions and various measures to improve the emergence of the collective means of travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1925	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «It is now approaching nine years of salt water and darkness on rv. 70 Freifjord Tunnel. Despite high traffic hazards and assessment of the closure of the tunnel, nothing has been done by the central authorities. Local spraying of work has been decided so that start-ups could take place in 2007. Nor has this resulted in concrete action by the road authorities. Will the Council of State proceed in order to put an end to the unworthy situation of road users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1934	It's a priority task to start rehabilitating the Freifjord Tunnel. However, the tunnel does not present an acute risk to the safety of road users. The tunnel squat was dismantled and pulled down in 2006 because there was a risk that parts of the squat could fall. This has led the tunnel to feel as dark and damp. To compensate for this, the edge stripping is done each week so that it is visible and the road is washed every month to maintain good adhesion. In addition, the fans in the tunnel have good capacity. The State Road Service therefore considers that the safety of road users is ensured. That said, of course, I would have liked it to be possible to start rehabilitating the tunnels in 2007. There are several reasons why work has not been started. The decisive reason is the lack of clarification from the Labour Inspectorate of a work plan that ensures a satisfactory working environment for those who are to carry out the rehabilitation work. This is a process carried out as a result of the missing approval from the Labour Inspectorate of the work plan for rehabilitation of the Ålesundstunnels. Whenever a work plan is negotiated that will meet the requirements of the working environment, a new cost estimate will be created for the project. Rehabilitation of the Freifjord tunnel is funded by means of the central tunnel protection programme. The 2006-2009 action programme has a total of 277 million. kr provided for the recovery of Ålesundstunnelen – Ellingsøjtunnelen and Valderøjtunnelen – and Freifjordtunnelen. The cost of rehabilitating Ålesundstunnelen has increased sharply, affecting the financing of the Freifjord Tunnel. In order to ensure that the project can be financed by funds from the central tunnel protection programme, the State Road Administration has taken the view that the rehabilitation of the Freifjord tunnel should not start until it has an overview of the costs of the Ålesund tunnels. There is no room for starting up the Freifjord Tunnel with state resources in 2008. However, it may be possible to start the project with accelerated funds in 2008. The state road authority will assess this possibility as soon as a new estimate has been made for the Freifjord tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1945	I have to be allowed to thank for the answer. Unfortunately, I do not think it was very offensive in view of a solution for a city of 20,000 – 25,000 inhabitants, and with a lot of traffic in and out of the centre. I think it's been incredibly late. Now it is the case that the North Mortars are a patient behaviour, but this matter has gone out incredibly in time. In a letter from the Ministry of Transport on 18 December 2006, the Minister of Transport deplores the length of proceedings and writes: ‘If funds are forged for the project in 2007 and 2008, it will be possible to start work in the autumn of 2007 at the discretion of the Ministry of Transport.’; A letter dated 6 February says that it is possible to start work in the summer or in the autumn of 2007. Now the harvest is almost over. Will not the Council of State be more obligating in its response to progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1959	There is no permission to advance which has caused the work to not have started at this time. As I said in my main response, the decisive reason is the lack of clarification from the Labour Inspectorate about a work plan that ensures a satisfactory working environment for those who are going to carry out the rehabilitation work. We are well aware of – and I also believe the representative Kongshaug is aware of – the problems that arose at the Ålesundstunnelen by the fact that one did not have an approved setup when a start was made. That error does not want to do again. In addition, it is necessary to obtain a new estimate of costs before a survey is started. If one gets this in place quickly, it is possible to start up with accelerated means in the summer of 2008. But in current years, of which there isn't so much left, it's not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1964	I had hoped for a Christmas present from the Council of State today with regard to the Freifjord tunnel, but it did not come. That's after the answer, as I can judge it, still unclear when this can happen. I have to say that I am surprised that it will take so long to put in place a safe work plan for those who are going to repair the tunnel. In the light of what happened in the Ålesundstunnels, a decision must now be made on how to do this and a solution must be found. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will give priority and push for this work, so that satisfactory working conditions for those who are to implement the project will be put in place, and that tenders will be drawn up to enable this to be put in place for the best possible advice. It's totally unsustainable the situation now. I do not agree with the Council of State that the tunnel is not dangerous to traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1969	When it comes to road safety, the Council of State keeps to the State Road Service, which is a trade union authority, and I expect the information I receive to be real. To refer again to my main answer: there are two causes. The one in charge of the Labour Inspectorate. The other debt costs, which, unfortunately, also on these installations have increased sharply compared to what had been foreseen. This makes the need for a new estimate of costs real. You need to have a set in place to ensure that you have an overview of the costs involved. I hope you can get started in the summer of 2008. I'm sorry I can't be any bigger than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1982	This question, from Robert Eriksson to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1985	«On Thursday 8 November, we could read in East Kantavisa that a woman from Rodeløkka lost the rehabilitation money from NAV. [[65]] The recipient concerned has not received any money since 28 February of this year. The reason for the withdrawal of the aid was that her treating doctor was ill-appointed. Does the Council of State believe that people on rehabilitation pay should be able to lose their rehabilitation money when their treating doctor becomes ill, and what will the Council of State do to prevent this from happening again?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e1992	I cannot go into what is the reason why the rehabilitation money was stopped in the specific matter to which the representative Robert Eriksson refers, as this is information subject to the rules of professional secrecy. However, on a general basis, I can inform you that there is a condition for the right to a rehabilitation allowance that the recipient is actively treated with a view to improving their working capacity. If the treating physician becomes ill, the Working and Welfare Unit will assess whether he/she can be treated differently. In the event of other active treatments, the person will be able to maintain receipt of the rehabilitation funds. In its governance dialogue with the Ministry of Labour and Welfare, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion will ensure that the establishment has procedures to deal with cases such as those mentioned by the representative Eriksson and will ensure that the individual is able to assess his/her need for further treatment. It is the State of Employment and Welfare that assesses whether the conditions for entitlement to rehabilitation money have been met. If a beneficiary disagrees with the assessment made by the State of Labour and Welfare, the decision may be appealed against by NAV. In the near future, the Government will issue a consultation note on a new temporary provision to replace today’s rehabilitation money,refunds and fixed-term unpaid pay. The current division of the income protection system into many different benefits, each with a clear time limit, is resource-intensive, and measures and follow-up have been closely linked to life-restraint performance. By making legislation simpler, as the Government states, the resources and attention of the agency can be much more focused on follow-up work than on administrative procedures such as calculations, payments and decision-making. It will provide better opportunities for a good follow-up based on the needs of the recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2001	I thank you for your answer. I also understand that things are happening in this area. At the same time, I want to use this case to address a general problem. As the situation is, the practice of NAV has become a problem for him and for several others. In this case – I refer to the same paper – he had to contact a lawyer to get a message about his rights. After further studies, it appeared that the person initially had a claim for rehabilitation money because there was no other type of treatment. As the Council of State pointed out, other types of treatment may continue to maintain the rehabilitation funds. But what about those cases where there is no other type of treatment, where he meets at the gate and no one stands on the other side and accepts it? Should we not also look at these cases and adapt the legislation in such a way as to make them much simpler and more manageable?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2008	I am sorry that I cannot go further into what is the reason why the rehabilitation money has been stopped in the specific matter raised by the representative Eriksson here, as this is based on information related to silence. I just want to make it clear once again that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion will assure the House of Labour and Welfare that on a general basis they have procedures that capture cases such as those mentioned by the representative Eriksson. As the law is today, the condition for entitlement to rehabilitation benefits is that the member is actively treated with a view to improving their working capacity. A situation in which the doctor becomes ill shall not automatically result in the cessation of the rehabilitation allowance. I would otherwise like to take with me the signals that the representative Eriksson is producing here, to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2017	I thank you once again for your answer. I hope I can give further signals that the Council of State can take back to the Council of State. In fact, today there are cases where, according to the media, some have received rehabilitation money on the same basis, while others have not received it. At the same time, the Council of State refers to legislation and also to the way in which legislation can be interpreted in order to find solutions. What will be important in this case, and as I hope the Council of State will take it back to the Council of State, is that we develop legislation that is equal to everyone, so that everyone can be treated equally as far as it can be done when there are similar cases. It will be a problem if it depends on which NAV office you go to, if you get equal treatment. The NAV reform was supposed to be a reform that would make it easier for users to get help. I hope that the Council of State will also take that signal back.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2026	I'm going to bring it on. Without going into the matter in question, as I said, it is clear that we on the part of the Government are concerned that what is adopted in this Chamber, and the laws that come into force, are being practiced in a way that ensures equivalence. In some cases, which we do not have insight, there may be several reasons why there may be different decisions anyway. I clearly believe that similar cases should initially be treated somewhat in the same way, unless there are other reasons that warrant otherwise. But as I said, I take with me the signals that the representative here sends.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2033	Question 20 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2047	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2054	‘Despite repeated promises from the Council of State to maintain orthopaedics at the Church Hospital, the situation has become that all sacred orthopaedics have been transferred to Hammerfest and Tromsø. This leads to a weakened professional competence environment at the hospital and an insufficient offer for the population in East Finland. In order to get a good result in orthopaedic interventions, one depends on short response time. What will the Council of State do to equalise the Finnish population with the rest of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2061	Let it be clear that there must be a well - functioning local hospital in the Churchnes! A good and sound specialist health service provision must be maintained and further developed for the entire population of East Finland. Maintaining residence in Finnmark is central to the Northern Region policy of the Government, and the availability of quality specialist health services is an important tool in this context. The change that has now been made at the Kirkenes hospital means – and the representative is aware of it – that there is no specialist in orthopaedics on duty from Friday morning to Monday morning. The reason is that it's hard to recruit orthopaedics to Finnmark. The activity is therefore based on ‘vikarstafat’ from Sweden. I would like to make it clear that Health Nord RHF aims to recruit orthoped for a permanent position/orthopedic position at the hospital in Kirkenes. In a letter to Health Nord RHF, I have suggested that a general surgical alert should be maintained at the hospital in Kirkenes, so that the hospital can assess and handle acute orthopaedic cases even when there is no orthopaedic alert. According to Health Nord, the conversion affects only a few patients. On average, there have been 20–30 orthopaedic operations per year. year on weekends, i.e. one patient every two weeks on average. Over the course of one year, it is approx. 100 requests on weekends, but about 80 pst. of these patients not to operate. Patients who must have orthoped treatment during the weekend are transported to Hammerfest or Tromsø in aeroplanes or ambulances. Some patients have to be transported anyway because they have damage to be treated at the University Hospital in North Norway. In several health businesses in Health Nord, the orthopaedic activity is grouped together in one place, which the representative certainly knows about. At the Helgelands Hospital, there is a specialised orthopedic watch in Mo in Rana, at the Nordlands Hospital, Bodø specialises in orthopedic watch, while operating in Lofoten and Stokmarknes. At the University Hospital in North Norway there are planned activities both in Narvik, Harstad and Tromsø, while orthopedic guards are gathered in Harstad and Tromsø. The most common acute orthopaedic disorders, i.e. bone fractures, can usually be treated without the presence of an orthopaedic specialist and without surgery. The Soria Moria Declaration states that no local hospital should be closed. But that doesn't mean that everything has to be the same everywhere. Major changes are taking place in medicine and technology, and the needs of the population for services are changing. We therefore need to keep working on renewing our hospitals so that patients are given the best possible treatment provision to adapt to developments. If we are going to do that, we also need to make changes in the division of tasks between hospitals, so that professional resources are used in the best possible way all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2078	It is almost so that you can get a little backwards when you hear the mention of the Northern Region bet, when you see that the hospital offer is being built down, when you see that you have a population that does not have access to a day-old police. Only in the first seven months of this year, there were 110 fewer Finn Markings. When you talk about importance, there's now a rebellion in East Finland, because we're losing an offer that we need to hurt. When we know that there are members of the Workers' Party who volunteer and take the initiative to create a new party precisely because the health service is being reduced, it says a lot about today's policy. Does the Minister for Health think it is professionally responsible that people admitted to hospital on a Thursday or Friday have to wait until Monday to receive treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2087	This has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If, for example: it is not possible to have an operation carried out at Kirkenes this weekend, for the patient concerned must be sent to one of the other hospitals. I'm aware that there's a lot of commitment to Kirkenes, to Finnmark, in terms of more health issues. That is also the background for me sending a letter to Health Nord asking for even better processes involving both employees, users and the local environment. I would also like to repeat that in a letter to Health Nord, I have said that there should be a general surgical alert at the hospital in Kirkenes, so that the hospital can assess and handle both acute orthopaedic cases. I repeat: Health Nord and Health Finnmark are now working on getting a fixed orthopeded there, because it's a challenge to have to run with so many «vikarstafats» from Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2096	When you live in East Finland, there is a distance to the next hospital between 55 and 60 miles. That's the shortest. Finnmark is unique. It is therefore necessary to enter into a special, additional allocation so that the people of eastern Finland can actually get an offer that is in line with what the rest of the country has. We know what complications can arise quickly if you don't get quick orthopaedic treatment, and the costs of people going further on sick and getting longer rehabilitation are real and very expensive to society. I repeat: does the Council of State feel that it is professionally sound that people who are admitted on Thursday or Friday must wait until the weekend before they can receive treatment, due to lack of specialists?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2105	What is professionally sound is not my job as a politician to think anything about. Doctors must think something about it and do something about it. They have that responsibility, and they take that responsibility. I assume they won't let people lie down for days if it's not professionally sound, but they'll send them elsewhere. Among other things, I have realized that several people have been sent to Hammerfest. I'm very familiar with the distances in Finnmark. I have traveled a lot in that state for many years. Obviously, it's different than in other parts of the country, where there are shorter distances. I have told Health Nord that they must take care to further develop the hospital in Kirkenes. I have also said very clearly from, especially in the light of this process, that Health Nord and Health Finnmark must establish and formalise good cooperation relations and procedures, not least with affected municipalities, employees and users. What we're talking about here is between 20 and 30 orthopaedic operations that so far per. years have been carried out during the weekends. It's a goal to get a fixed orthoped there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2116	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Health and Care: «A 40-year-old woman has been in the same position for two years in a bed at home in owner-occupied dwellings, according to VG on 13th d.m. She has the diagnosis of paralysis syndrome and chronic pain. No doctor or hospital has been able to determine what the problem is and how it should be treated. From some teams she learns that ‘it’s in her head’. Psychiatrists have concluded that she has no mental illness. The woman is in an inhuman situation with great suffering. Will the Council of State take a closer look at the case and, where appropriate, consider offers abroad if they exist?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2125	I am concerned that all seriously ill patients should receive the best possible health care, and that patients experience that they are being taken seriously in our healthcare system. It is the current hospital department or responsible doctor at the hospital who has to assess which treatment services are most suitable for the individual patient. The hospital also needs to assess the need for further evaluation before deciding on treatment provision. If a patient is not satisfied with the offer or treatment he or she receives at a hospital, the patient is entitled, as the representative is well aware, to review the specialist healthcare service. The right shall apply once for the same condition. The representative is also very well aware that complaints about the assessment and decision on the right to treatment should be addressed to the Health Authority in the county. I also believe that the patient representatives have an important role to play here, including. by helping patients in the case of complaint proceedings. As Minister of Health and Care, I cannot intervene or comment on professional assessments made by a hospital in the treatment of individual patients. I cannot intervene in complaints either. The Patient Rights Act § 2-1, fifth paragraph specifies the conditions under which a patient is entitled to treatment abroad. It is said to be known, among other things. the severity of the condition, the expected benefit of the treatment, the cost of the treatment must be proportionate to the benefits of the treatment and the absence of an adapted medical treatment offer in Norway. The opinion of the specialised department in the field of disease shall be available. In Health South-East RHF, two health care establishments are responsible for joint application assessment for this type of treatment journey. It is the units for foreign treatment at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital and Ullevål University Hospital. Health South-East has stated that if the patient is referred to a foreign treatment unit, it is assessed whether the patient meets the criteria for being entitled to treatment abroad. If the patient is considered to have a right to treatment abroad, a search for a hospital competent to treat the patient’s condition will be carried out. The patient will be referred to treatment abroad if such treatment competence exists. As is known, it is a separate complaint subject for complaints about refusal of treatment abroad. It is the whole of this system that provides the necessary assurance that individual patients will be taken seriously and followed up in a good manner. Both healthcare companies, patients’ representatives and health supervision can provide further information on patients’ rights. If it is relevant for foreign treatment, I assume that this is covered by the established legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2136	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I can only say in the beginning that the undersigned is well aware of what legislation we have in the healthcare system, the way things can be done, and who can make decisions about the individual things. What is special about this matter is that he feels in many ways declared by the health service. If you feel that you have a health record, and feel that in many ways you have no alternative, you don't benefit from having all the world's opportunities on paper. It's just this feeling you get when you get almost feedback about it that can't be done more for you – that in this case where you have been in the same position for two years in bed in your own home, without feeling that she gets the help she needs – that makes me bring this question up. My question is: is the Council of State not at all willing to contact Health South-East – Health Biggest now – to ask what are the plans for the follow-up of this woman?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2143	First of all, let me say that it's always sad when patients feel and think, and many times rightly, without knowing this particular patient, that they don't meet properly, are not taken seriously or feel declared by the health service. That's not how we're going to have it. But again: I do not know this particular case, but if you are not satisfied with the treatment you have received – and I understand that this is the case – I just have to encourage you to contact the hospital/health company in question again. If appropriate, patients’ representatives and health care may also be able to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2148	The person involved here has been diagnosed with paralysis syndrome and chronic pain. The expectation that the individual patient will be able to find out in the jungle of laws, regulations, regulations and opportunities that exist may in some cases be to go a long way. That's why I'm bringing this case to the square here. Unfortunately, this is not necessarily a unique case, because we have a code and ways of working that may be difficult to understand for each individual patient. That's why I had a certain hope that the department team could at least get involved in the matter and look at it, without interfering in the treatment plan for Health South-East – I have no intention of doing so at all – but simply say: Yes, we will at least look at the matter, to see if we can help him. Perhaps he does not have the power to investigate and use the legal remedies available to him. I hope – once again – that the Council of State will at least ask someone to look into the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2153	Again, it's sad when people don't get the treatment they think they should have. But it is difficult for me, as Minister of Health, to intervene in those very many cases in a year in which patients feel that way, rightly or wrongly – many rightly. That's why we have organs to help with that. It is important that the doctor with whom you are dealing, or other doctors, takes on that task, that the Patient Ombudsman assists, and that the Health Inspectorate assists. I ask for an understanding that as Minister of Health, I cannot intervene in every single matter. I'm not a professional in the field, either. That's why we've set up the systems we have. That doesn't mean that I don't have compassion – I have the greatest compassion – for both this patient and many others who have difficulty. But it would be an almost impossible task for a health minister to intervene in all the individual matters, of which, unfortunately, there are many in a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2172	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2186	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2193	I have this question for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘When can the Storting expect the State Council to come to the Stortinget with a case on the grant scheme for approved private schools, and in what way will the State Council ensure that the family economy and other external factors are not decisive for students to have the opportunity to attend approved private schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2200	The Ministry has in St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008 feedback on call decision No 545 on this and said the following: ‘The Ministry has gone through the model for the contribution of private primary schools that warn in St.prp. No 39 and in Ot. pp. [[2006-2007]] [[2006-2007]] No 37 In other words, we haven't finished reviewing the take-off model for the private primary schools. Currently, only the municipal correction factor will be changed. Any changes to the feed model may have budgetary implications. That's why it's natural to come back to the matter in St.prp. No 1 for 2008-2009, i.e. the budget. Then the representative asks Dørum how I want to ensure that family finances and other external factors are not decisive for the student's ability to attend approved private schools. Private school laws set a roof on which school is allowed to charge students. As a general rule, the school allowance may not exceed 15 pst. on the basis of which it is based. In addition to ordinary school money, schools may charge up to NOK 3000 per year. year for pupils in primary school and up to NOK 4000 per year. year for pupils in the secondary school to cover the costs of renting and capital costs. The current provision on the maximum cost of school money is also a continuation of previous providers in the 2003 law on upper secondary education and the earlier private school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2218	I'm familiar with what's in the budget proposal, and I've also noticed that you're going to have a dialogue with the private school organisations, and see it as very positive. Then I understand the Council of State so that you have not intended to come back with the main thing before in the budget for 2009. I allow myself to say that I think it's late. Of course, the committee was familiar with what the Council of State addressed. We were also familiar with it as for example. was the situation of Health Education Steinerskole, which was not allowed under the rules to cover its capital costs by taking school money, and which then comes into a completely impossible state of affairs: this does not allow a grant to cover costs, 85 p.m., and on the other hand you are not allowed to take school money. It was a series of such situations for those schools that there was broad agreement that consideration should be given to the Committee's request for what the Council of State referred to. My question is, Will the Council of State look at these practical situations? For some of these schools are now in a practically impossible situation, even almost a Catch 22 situation, which makes that no matter what you do, it's going to be wrong. Then I guess you can't wait until the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2225	Now we've made a change, and just because we've learned that the model is hard to keep up with in each school and a little bit of care, we're going to go through it. However, it is clear that any changes we may have to make may have budgetary implications. Therefore, it is natural to present this in the context of the 2009 budget, for changes that will have budgetary implications, to be dealt with in the budgetary process, and will then apply from 2009. And then I want to make it clear once again that today's financing system is the same as that of the law of high school, and now it goes further into private school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2232	When the committee discussed the matter, it was agreed that it had been caught in forms – to use an unpretentious word – of systemic madness. That's why we wanted the case back. Of course, I'm familiar with how to handle budgets. But we have many budget rounds in Stortinget: we have revised national budgets – we have them early in the year. Then we have the aging of the budget. And in these days we get a series of supplementary appropriations for the current financial year. So if a matter is urgent, a government council has a lot of practical opportunities to come back, if you first join the government. It was my impression that although there was a disagreement about the private school law, that was the case, for example. between the Party of the Council of State and the Left, there was agreement that the schools to be held were to be provided with good, viable conditions. So I can't do anything but encourage the Council of State to come back with a case before we get to the budget for 2009. I agree that it is good to have looked at the municipal correction factor, but the other conditions, for example. Health education Steinerskole as a cash and concrete example, I encourage the Council of State to look at, so that you don't wear another year. I do not think anyone has earned it after the procedure we have had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2241	Just as, I think, the Left agrees with the Government and the SV that the main effort in the years to come will be to strengthen the public high school, we have also been able to say that it has been necessary to look at the admission arrangements for private schools, among other things. Because we have learned that they have been a little careless, and it has our challenges to them. And we're going to ensure a safe economy for private schools in Norway as well as public school. We've made a change, as the representative knows. Then we'll come back to an assessment of the rather complex system here, and my opinion is that it's natural to present it in the context of the 2009 budget, i.e. in St.prp. No 1st@item: We will then present any changes that are relevant in order to ensure adequate and good funding also from private primary schools in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-21.ana.ud1835e2246	The current map has thus been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
