ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e42	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e51	Earlier this evening, the Stortinget has approved the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Council Directive 2003/59/EC. Requirements concerning qualifications and continuing training of professional drivers. The case here in Odelstinget concerns changes to the road traffic floor in order to transpose the directive into Norwegian law. In its examination of the matter, the Committee held an open hearing. The consultation showed that there was broad agreement on the need for the action and on the so-called hourly model, which the Ministry has actually chosen through the consultation round on the regulations of the law, and which includes training for 280 hours with a final test. Requirements for initial and recurrent training shall be laid down in the regulations. The change in the law we are dealing with here leads to a new section 29 of the Road Traffic Act on Qualification requirements and a new section 30 on foreign driving licences or certificates of competence. The Committee agrees unanimously with the proposal. The Committee considers common legislation to be an important measure to improve road safety and to strengthen the recruitment of the driver profession. The Committee considers it important that Norway be given compulsory training for heavy-duty drivers in this way, that such training should also be based on a common European framework, and that compulsory continuing training should also be provided. The Committee takes into account the information contained in the proposal that the changes will strengthen drivers’ knowledge and awareness relating to road safety, environmentally friendly driving, securing cargo, handling freight contracts and customs and shipping documents. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, have noted that proposals for regulations use the term ‘at least 280 hours’ at full initial training. The majority assume that full initial training under the EU Directive is 280 hours and no more. The majority have noted that regulatory proposals use the term ‘at least 150 hours’ for compressed initial training and assume that this variant should be 140 hours and no longer under the EU Directive. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre Party, believe that the regulations should describe minimum training requirements, but would stress that this should not prevent more extended and adapted training arrangements, such as: in relation to secondary school. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have also noted that the Directive opens up a compressed variant of 140 hours of instruction and final examination. The same batches underline that the regulations must allow the active use of this variant. These members also assume that basic training is part of the secondary education cycle, and then without any additional costs for the pupils. The party to the proceedings has noted that the regulations have been issued at the hearing before the Grand Duchy has completed its proceedings. The Party does not recommend such a practice. At the same time, that exercise has shown that bureaucracy can be reasonably rapid when needed. It's interesting to notice other things! The Party wants regulations based on minimum requirements and reiterates the need to use the hours and nothing more of the Directive. The Progress Party underlines that the currently introduced professional driver training is a new scheme. Dispensation rights shall be exercised by a single decision. We stress that exemptions are being used liberally, in order to capture situations that obviously have not been considered in the limits of application mentioned in draft regulations. The Party of Progress indicates that the Directive to which Norway subscribes opens the possibility of reducing the age limit for minibus and bus services at national level to 18 years under certain conditions. The Progress Party has noted that the Road Directorate has not yet proposed such a scheme. The Party points out that such a possibility should be considered, both in terms of the integration of professional driver training into secondary school and the recruitment of bus operators. The Progress Party asks the Government to present a separate case on professional driver training in secondary school and to reduce the age limit for minibus and bus driving. The Committee's position is unanimous and is therefore put forward. I also refer to the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e85	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e88	I am pleased that the Transport and Communications Committee supports the Government's proposal to amend the Road Traffic Act on compulsory training of professional drivers. In the proposal for a new Section 29, the Ministry of Transport has the right to demand basic and continuing training for drivers of heavy goods vehicles, i.e. different classes of truck and bus. Today, drivers may exercise their profession if they have the right to drive in the category of vehicle in question. The education proposed by the law comes in addition to such driving rights. The aim of the proposal is inter alia: to promote the recruitment of the driver profession and to contribute to the reputation of the profession. We also hope that such a requirement for professional driver training will contribute to increased road safety. The legislative proposal has the background to an EU directive, which will require all EEA countries, from 2008 to 2009, to train drivers. Harmonised requirements for professional drivers lead to a level playing field, and what I think Government is very important. The Road Directorate has been listening to a proposal for such a regulation. The Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Road Transport will continue to work with the regulations after the legislative proposal that we have now presented is completed in Stortinget. Since the work on the regulation started so early, the committee has also been able to comment on it, even if it is not part of the bill. I have noticed that the Committee calls for one in the regulation to choose the model of compulsory education and final examination, and that one should also have a compressed education with half of the teaching hours when the conditions for it are met. This is completely in line with my vision. It is important that drivers of heavy goods vehicles, who both have complicated traffic tasks and who run very far on our road network each year, have the best possible skills to maintain safety for themselves and other road users. I have good faith that this bill has contributed to it. The proposition also contains a proposal for a change to Section 30, where the Ministry of Transport is allowed to regulate whether foreign drivers should be able to benefit from different certificates of competence from their home countries when running in Norway. Such regulation would be particularly relevant where certificates of competence have been issued outside the EEA territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e109	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e117	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e125	Two proposals have been made during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e198	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e208	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-26-lower.ana.ud1036e270	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
