ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e52	In 1981 Gro Harlem Brundtland was the first female prime minister in Norway. In the years that followed, many measures to increase gender equality in Norway, such as the United Kingdom, were followed up. the organisation of labour market integration for women. Unfortunately, today we see that the work force is still struggling with a lack of equality. It's stereotyped, and it's traditional. The Soria Moria Declaration states the following: ‘We will pursue a policy that gives women and men equal opportunities and real equality. Although Norwegian women and men formally have the same rights, it's a long way to go before we've really created equal opportunities. We will discriminate between sexes when necessary to achieve full equality." This is what I'm very happy about in the Soria Moria statement, but it's a long way to go before we're in the goal. I am sure that the key to a more equal society today is changing the gender-based labour market. If we get to that, we'll also get to equality. And to get rid of the sex-shared labour market, we have to start with education. That is why I have today addressed this interview to the Minister of Education. This, of course, also applies to the Minister for Gender Equality, the Minister for Labour and Entrepreneurship. I have four suggestions on how we can be involved and correct the lack of equality. It's through. to establish a national strategy to stimulate young people and students to choose non-traditionalintervention in schools to extend the use of projects that have shown good results I want to come back to these suggestions. For me, the core of being politically committed is a desire for a better society for future generations. The Norwegian society gave me the opportunity to expand myself as an engineer, and I'm glad. At the same time, we know that many of today’s young people are influenced by their parents when it comes to choice of education and profession, which can lead to self-limiting. The possibilities all have, they don't become real to everyone. We also know that today's young people are very traditional in education and profession. There is a high lack of further training. We know that many, especially women, work involuntary part-time and have a strong desire to work full-time. We also know that women today have 14 pst. less than men, even with the same position. An alarming trend is the increase in pay differentials among those with higher education. Researchers believe that one of the explanations is the choice of education. Women are often taught in health and social education, while men tend to choose technical or scientific subjects. The last one is usually valued at a higher salary. This is serious, because it has consequences for the distribution of power and positions in society. In the future, the need for skilled and higher education workforce will also be high. An equal work life is more than a goal; it is imperative. Therefore, it is very sad that some parties do not see the necessity or put the problem in the typical women's case booth. It really means adornment in speech and no real action. Here I would like to address a special challenge to the Progress Party, which has no policy on this in its programme. I'm glad there's actually a part of our society in this area. Last night we could listen to the news that LO and NHO in Sørlanden work together to get more girls into technical education. NTNU has great programs to get girls in. At secondary school in Oslo, they have worked actively for several years to get more girls into the field of electrical science and mechanical science. And it appears that with active measures, there are several girls who choose these educations. What happens is that all the girls in Oslo who are looking for electrical or mechanical subjects are given the opportunity to be locked in to secondary school. This is because they're going to get an environment, which is very important. In addition, the offered 'Take Place' courses, where they are invited to the school, are presented to the subject and meet teachers and other girls who have applied for. Follow-up to the girls after they start school is also a measure to take care of the girls. I want to say that these girls are incredibly lucky. I'd like it to be like this for all the girls or boys who were looking for untraditional subjects, but it's actually not like that, because it's up to the individual school to decide if they want to work with this or not. The example of this school could well have been used in other states and schools as well. It could have worked on those lines where we're trying to get more guys into it. There should be a national strategy, so that there will be equal opportunities across the country and we can jointly achieve a goal of an equal society. Then there's one more thing that's very important in Norway. When the girls have chosen an untraditional profession, it is very important that they also have a place for learning. A profession and a professional letter also make more searches for engineering training. Future Norway needs a lot of engineers. For many years, the organization Women in Human Occupations has been working to get more girls to choose untraditionally. Girls who are electricians, car mechanics, carpenters and engineers have traveled around youth schools and gave lectures to girls. We know that role models are one of the most important ways to choose a profession. Women in human occupations also work to take care of the girls who have already chosen, as we know that a person can often be lonely in an untraditional profession. A lot of positive work has been done, but a small organisation like this can't pull such a load alone. There's also a book about the theme, "One of Boys?" by Ellen Møller and Inger Vagle. The book is about school and business development to make good-dominated craftsmanship attractive for girls. Much good work is done in many areas. It only applies to collecting experience and creating a common project on it. This image is not black and white in all areas of our society. There are also positive moves. Within higher education, women make up more than half of the students. The same debt in student formations that were previously man-dominated — e.g. medicine, law and pharmacy. On the other hand, we see that women still make up the minority among professors and in higher scientific settings in general. I think we have to start as early as possible when it comes to correcting the differences in the labour market and in the education system. The different parts of the education system need to be viewed in a context. The government has already taken an action by transferring responsibility for childcare to the Ministry of Knowledge. Kinderhagen is a voluntary part of the education system and an important learning venue. We know that the socialization of typical gender roles occurs early. I am sure that the education system can help alleviate social disparities in society, but we can also use it to change the gender-based labour market. As I started with, there are four measures I think we need to focus on. A national strategy to get more people to search untraditionally: I have mentioned different examples of what is happening today, and a lot has happened before. In the 1980s, we had e.g. a project called the BRYT project. There was a cooperation between the Nordic countries. The aim was to get more women to choose male-dominated education and occupation, and also to make boys choose untraditional. A lot of positive experiences came out of this project, and the experience can be good to have to establish a strategy for both sexes. Internship at school: In practice, early schooling requires a much closer cooperation between industry and the workplace and school/training, so that students can learn about possible jobs at an early stage. Advice: We know that the availability of advice in the youth sphere is too poor. Much can be done here. I think we might have to bet on the training of consultants, because I think the consultants play a key role in helping young people in the choice of a profession. Project in education: Moderate gender rationing is e.g. a substance that has been used and that can be re-used if we want to do something about it. In the 1980s, the boys got points to get into the nursing school, and the girls got points if they were going into the engineering school. Such measures are easy to implement, and they are not particularly expensive either. But it depends on us wanting and deciding that this will be us, this is a goal that we want to achieve together.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e121	I agree with the representative of Gunvor Eldegard that it is far from real equality in working life. Norway has one of the most gendered educational and labour markets in Europe. This means challenges in relation to the allocation of responsibilities, roles, power, positions and financial resources. Women’s monthly earnings amounted to 84,7 p.m. in 2005. of men's wages, and it is much more common for women to work part-time. All 80 pst. part-time workers are women. In the field of education, which is my responsibility, there are still more positive developments. There has been a strong increase in the level of education of women in the last 30 years. From the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s, women represented almost the entire growth of students at our higher education institutions. In 2001, six out of ten university and university students were women. In recent years, the proportion of women has also shown a strong increase in higher education, and in all disciplines. There's also little difference in the length of the education that women and men take. Women students are today in the majority where men previously dominated the study. This applies, for example: medicine, there 61 pst. are women, pharmacy, 73 pst., odontology, 68 pst., and also in law school, the majority are now women. The proportion of women taking doctoral degrees has also increased in recent years and was 40 pst. in 2005. The challenge at the student level is to get more women to choose the real science, mathematics, physics and engineering courses, which were also involved in the interpellant. Last autumn, the Ministry of Knowledge established the National Real Science Forum. There shall be a meeting place for representatives of the Government, Labour and Education sectors. One of the important issues to be addressed by the Forum is the recruitment of girls for real-life education. Another main challenge in the academy is the biased gender distribution in higher scientific positions. Women's under-representation in this area is a democratic problem, because women are less involved in deciding research and education priorities than men. It is necessary for both the institutions themselves and the department here to make a joint commitment. In many universities, equality is a high priority. It is expressed, among other things. in institutions' equal opportunities plans. However, development is too slow, and many businesses are asking for more help. The Ministry’s Committee on Integration — Women in Research, which has now worked for three years, has received many positive feedback from the institutions. The Committee shall have, inter alia: visited a number of establishments and organised seminars, and ordered more research reports that have provided new and important knowledge. The advisory and driving role of this Committee is so valuable that the Ministry has decided that the Committee will continue its work for a new three-year period. The Committee's preliminary final report points out that the recruitment process for scientific positions needs to be examined in greater detail and that efforts should be made to develop academic leadership from a gender perspective, because gender equality within the academic community is largely a matter of leadership and cultural change. But this question, of course, does not concern the academy alone. This applies to the entire Norwegian community. For the past 30–35 years, the participation of Norwegian women in the profession and society has undergone major changes. The women's strong entry into the academy is proof of this. Yet, at the same time, we see that, over the last decades, the structure of employment has remained a long way off in the form of gender stereotypes. Women dominate care and school, business and management. Thus, many women are in low-paid jobs, while men raise the highest wages. And there is no significant distinction between private business and the public sector. We cannot accept a situation where women continue to be absent in key arenas where decisions are made. Society as a whole loses a lot of valuable competence if only one sex dominates a profession. There's also, as the interpellant was about, the need for more boys to choose non-traditional professions. The care sector needs more and more labour, and in this area we need to ensure that we recruit from all over the population, not just from women. Kindergartens and schools are also well on the way to women-dominated arenas. Female pre-school teachers and teachers do a fantastic job, but girls and boys need to get in touch with both adult women and men in their upbringing. Gender role identity and gender role patterns are formed in kindergarten and are reinforced through school. It's important both who the children meet and how the adults convey values like equality and equivalency. The work to change the uneven distribution of women and men in the labour market is a long-term process, which must start already in kindergarten and in the education system. Promoting equality in education and training is an overall educational policy objective. Since the 1970s, equality has been an integral part of the primary and secondary curriculum. Today, equality is a natural element in the curriculum, in the Training Act, in the framework plan for kindergartens and in other sector objectives and governance documents. At the same time, of course, the equal opportunities law applies in schools and educational establishments. In other words, gender equality shall take place in all training and education, at all levels. But today we know little about the extent to which equality work reaches the individual school and the individual kindergarten. Much may suggest that it is reaching a small extent, as statistics over the decades have proved to be so stable, especially in the professional fields. There are more boys than girls in vocational education. There are also more boys than girls who are apprentices. For example, the distribution of boys and girls between the different professions shows: That's 89 pst. girls in the field of education in the field of health and social sciences and 86 pst. in the field of design. In construction, electrical science, mechanical science and engineering, 90 pst. Guys. If we are to achieve a better long-term balance in education, education and working life, we need more knowledge. We need to assess the impact of individual measures, and we need to have facts on which instruments are most appropriate. For the period 2007–2011, the Ministry has set out its own strategy for gender equality. An important element of this strategy is the re-inquiring of knowledge and the testing of different interventions. This strategy shall have three main objectives. The first is to ensure equal training and the learning environment. We need increased knowledge of the learning environment and socialisation, so that the environment will provide children and young people in kindergartens and schools, challenge them as much as possible in relation to traditional gender roles — while providing opportunities for both boys and girls. Sexual harassment is an example of a field in which we should have more knowledge. In Sweden, studies have revealed a high level of sexual harassment in school. Much suggests that the problem also exists in Norwegian school. Another area is the situation of boys in school. Characteristic statistics show that girls do better than boys in all subjects in school, except in physical exercise. The second main area of the plan is to inspire less traditional professional and professional choices, on which the interpellant was very much involved. Making children and young people aware of the importance of gender for educational and professional choices must start early. The gender perspective should be incorporated as a conscious part of the school's educational and professional advisory services. The third main area is to ensure a better gender balance between kindergarten and school employees. How do we increase the interest of men in seeking training for important areas of work which are currently dominated by women, and – not least – how can we keep them in the profession? The content of teacher training will be important in the future. We need more knowledge about how these educations meet the students and how the content of teacher training appeals to women and men. Here we will, among other things: build on the important work undertaken through the Action Plan on Gender Equality in Kindergartens, which ran from 2004 to 2007. During the period of action so far, we have 1 109 more men in kindergartens. This is a good increase in such a typical care profession. We also see an increasing interest among men in pre-school education. The Ministry will therefore continue work on equality in kindergarten beyond 2007. This will be an important part of the strategy for gender equality for 2007–2011, which we will then present. The strategy will contain proposals for concrete actions that could lead to changes in gender equality and in the distribution between women and men in kindergartens and in education and training. It is a comprehensive and necessary work that my department is doing in order for us to achieve a more equal working life in the future. Work will take a long time. But the education authorities alone cannot take responsibility for solving all the challenges we see. In order to achieve this goal, many authorities, businesses and organisations in the labour market need to merge. The Ministry of Knowledge shall contribute. I will follow developments closely and continuously consider new measures to meet the challenges of gender equality in the future. The four challenges that the interpellant has for me today are all important parts of such a strategy in the future. This with the counselling service, which the interpellant was particularly concerned about, is something that we have also raised in St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007,...and no one was left. We anticipate an increased focus on getting a more relevant counselling service. It has rightly been criticised, and this will be one of the measures in which a more competent advisory service will, of course, also facilitate more untraditional professional choices, which are an important part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e161	I would like to thank the Minister for his answer. I'm very happy that we have a government that aims to lead a policy that gives women and men equal opportunities and real equality. I'm happy when the minister says that a strategy for equality should now be put in place. The objectives of strategy work are very important, and are pleased that the Minister says that we should get more men into traditional women's prisons. I assume that women should also be part of the strategy. I want to tell the minister that it is very good that we should try to acquire knowledge. But there's actually a lot of knowledge in this area. I have a lot of examples instead, and I have a lot more. I don't think we need to reinvent all the powder. By collecting the experiences we've had in the last few years, we have a lot. It's very important. The minister says something that is actually quite serious, that one should take care of the boys in school, because they make it so much worse in school than the girls. It's really good that we make an effort to get the good guys out. But then it almost becomes even more paradoxical, because the boys are going to go out to work and get the jobs that give the most income, even though they were initially worse off than the girls. I'm very happy that one also takes it seriously. I very much agree with the Minister of Education that we need to have an interaction, with the employee organisations, of course, with the trade unions, with the business community in general, with the education systems and with the other departments. But I still think that someone needs to take an overall responsibility, which I see the Minister of Education is about to do now, setting up this strategy so that we can achieve the goals together. Finally, I want to take a small example that I think is nice. At the school I mentioned, they do quite a lot. Suddenly they can have an open day for girls at this school for example. learning about the electrophage and mechanics. The girls will then be allowed to write logs. In the excerpts from them, it says e.g.«I connected wires, made spin-bass, drew and played games». Another girl made diodes with battery. Her father had helped her with that. In the question, ‘What did you experience?’ one replied, ‘I got a light bulb to light’, and it says, ‘Mechanics and electro are quite cool subjects for me.’ So it's useful when we put in measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e176	Just the fact that Storting addresses this kind of issue is very important to get on with it. We from the ministry, of course in cooperation with the rest of society and work, have a very important role to play. Getting public attention through an interpellation debate in Stortinget is a very important contribution, which sends a very clear signal that the Storting is concerned about this issue and wants to move on with it. Let me give praise to the interpellant to travel a very important debate on a very important topic. And I think everyone acknowledges that this, of course, requires close cooperation between many different actors. It's at least as important to make the boys choose untraditionally as it is to make the girls choose untraditionally. The strategy we have had to get more men in kindergartens has been quite successful. When you visit kindergartens that have boys, you see that there are often quite simple things that make them stay in kindergarten. The boys have tended to be there for a short time, and then they disappear. A little funny said: the guys haven't had anyone to talk to. It means something as simple as that if you have two male employees, and you have both in the same department and not one boy in each department, it makes them longer. Then they have someone to discuss football matches or lotto or tips. There are so simple social mechanisms that are going to succeed in making the boys longer in kindergarten. This awareness-raising work has been good, for example: at Queen Maud's Memorial in Trondheim, which is the largest institution to train pre-school teachers. We see that the recruitment process has improved. That's just one example of what you can do with knowledge. The interpellant is quite right that we should not try to reinvent the powder. There's a lot of experience and knowledge. Over the year, a lot has been achieved in this area. That is why we are building on this in the new strategy we are going to launch. Let me underline the other two measures we're doing. The National Forum for Real Science is established in cooperation with the labour market and educational institutions. We've had our first meeting, and we're going to have a new meeting now at the beginning of February. Getting women into real science is a very important topic here. I am very pleased that the social partners and educational institutions also see how important this is. This will be a theme I want to address to get my own strategy on how to get women to choose the professions associated with real science. The second is the Committee – Women in Research – chaired by Kari Melby from NTNU, who now finishes his three-year work. It will provide me with an evaluation report in a short time. We've already decided to continue this, because we see that women have made a big investment in the academy. There is a majority of female students, and many lower-level positions are occupied by women. But we also see a very biased recruitment to the highest scientific positions, especially in technology and science. It's a very important challenge for us in the academy to get a more equal working life also in the top management positions of our universities and research institutions. We miss so much talent and so much skill simply because women don't take the longest education in these subjects. In this way, we make Norway poorer as a nation. So this also has a national perspective, not just a gender perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e191	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important matter, and I would like to thank the Council of State for an interesting answer. I do belong to a gender and a generation that may have to be said to have contributed little, at least practically, in the gender equality work, so my experience and my competence may be little to contribute. Many years ago there was a friend of mine who had a prominent position in the Norwegian business community who said: «The boardroom of Norwegian companies is overpopulated by nervous men in dress and tie. In any case, the inclusion of one or more women in this environment will enhance the overall competence of the Board of Directors.’.» This was probably a point formulation, but the statement seemed at least inspiring to me in the work I've done to make girls and boys choose untraditional, and to achieve a better balance between the sexes in society and work. So that's why I've dared to sign up for this debate, because I've made some experiences that I want to give the best in this brief article. The traditional selection of young people is the major challenge in gender equality, and these traditional patterns need to be addressed. I don't think full equality in the workplace is going to be a natural state until there's real and full equality in the world. I think that's absolutely fundamental. I'm finishing up on the strategies for gender equality that the Council of State has set up here today. These are important measures. I perceive that these are the overall, long-term strategic grips that need to be done. But much, in my view, can also be done locally and regionally, and continuously, and we must be impatient. Then, as owners of the educational institutions, we have to assume this responsibility. There are a number of examples that when good information campaigns are run, preferably in collaboration between business and school, they produce results. Trondheim Municipality has succeeded in recruiting men into kindergartens, and then you're on your way. It's in the home and kindergarten this work starts. I think the business community must be much more active in primary school than it is today, it must be the business representatives who describe the possibilities of choosing untraditionally in professional life. It is primarily they, together with young people who have chosen untraditionally, who are credible informers and role models. My experience is that the business community is very motivated and willing to participate in this work, but there may well be questions about how active and motivated pushers school leaders and school owners are willing to be. I think it is important that the Council of State encourages and stimulates such projects. It may remind us of ad hoc work, but I think such processes need to be run continuously and be one of several measures that will bring us forward. I think the other interpellant pointed to a central theme when she developed the advisory function at primary school. I think it is absolutely necessary to upgrade this function, maybe organize the work in a different way, and make more active use of business and society in this function as well in a more integrated way. In my view, it is something that the county council as a school owner, but above all the municipality as the owner of kindergarten and primary school, must give priority. And it must not just be given priority and emphasis in the plan, it must be an extra effort and a great commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e213	The representative of Eldegard is addressing an important topic today. Section 1 of the Equal Opportunities Act requires public authorities to work actively, targeted and planned to promote equality. In this context, its role as a driver and enforcement authority is important. Its driving role must be strengthened. If we are to achieve the goal of an egalitarian society, it is important to motivate young people into untraditional career choices, which many people have experienced. NTNU has taken this challenge seriously. In their equality plan, they describe the background for taking equality seriously: The fact that both sexes get involved in research, teaching and guidance will contribute to greater deprivation and thus increase the quality of the whole business. NTNU should profile itself as an attractive university, where both sexes have equal opportunities. Active equality policies can be a comparative advantage for NTNU in competition for the best students, teachers and researchers, and their candidates will do a better job, adapt society. In order to achieve almost equal gender distribution in all studies, they have seen the aim of continuing the work of recruiting several female students for technological and scientific subjects and working to increase the female part of other human-dominated studies. It is also a goal for them to ensure the male recruitment of women-dominated subjects. NTNU has seen many measures in place to achieve its objectives. Many of the measures they have seen may well be considered positive by other educational institutions, such as the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom. motivating girls to take a real-life course in secondary school and to use female technology and real-time vocational students and female technologists in recruitment work aimed at the youth school and the secondary school. It also allows for the quota of girls when admitted to studies with the particularly low girls. Another example is that they have started a pilot project focusing on both professional content, communication and study environment within a single subject with a particular low or falling female part. The main reason why Norwegian women tend less than men is that women and women groups, especially those with high education, are valued lower than men and men-dominated groups with corresponding education. This is what is called value discrimination. Women tend less than men in spite of their corresponding education, responsibility and competence. This happens because women work in traditional women's homes. We must work to counteract such discrimination! Dissemination of absenteeism from the labour market more equally between mother and father could also have a positive effect on the long term. The planning days in kindergarten and absences due to ill children are not related to the mothers. Both employers and fathers must be made aware of here. It is important that the social partners work for greater equality. The NHO, for example, has focused on this through its Female Future project. But there is a need for increased efforts to ensure that women are recruited to positions traditionally dominated by men. At the same time, it is important that men are encouraged to choose a profession that is traditionally women-dominated. An example is the project ‘Men in Kinderhagen’. It turns out that once you've assigned a man, it's a lot easier to recruit more people. In addition, some kindergartens have chosen to set up wages and salaries to improve recruitment. The Bondevik II Government proposed and agreed that part-time allowances should be given priority over an expanded position, rather than that employers should have a new entry in the enterprise. This is an important rule for women and men who work part-time involuntarily and benefits many involuntary part-time workers in the health sector. At the same time, we must dare to see that wage differences in the labour market also have an impact on the division of labour in the world. Therefore, it is important to stimulate fathers to take more responsibility for childcare and housework. In this way, increasing paper mass is an important grip. Paperbackm has a long-term effect on worksharing at home, even after parental leave is over. I want to challenge the Government to continue the escalating government of Bondevik. Now the paper is in six weeks. The target is 10 weeks before the end of the landfill period. In addition, it is important that all fathers are entitled to cardboard, regardless of the income and work of the mother before birth. Equal rights and equal opportunities are important, but individual choice is also decisive in the choice of education and profession. The challenge, however, is that the expectations of the community and its structures do not make the choice real in relation to their own lives. We are bound by traditions and habits. Here we all have a challenge!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e251	The interpellant is quite right: a key to a better and more equal working life is to get more girls to choose untraditional professions, says Eldegard in his interpellation. It's obviously a paradox that while women become more prominent in higher education than boys, and we're facing a situation where we get more women than men in academic professions, we haven't been able to weaken the gender-based working life. Women become doctors, lecturers and psychologists. Men become engineers, directors and business leaders. Women dominate the public sector, while men take top jobs in the private sector. I want to use this debate to highlight the need to support women who are considering investing in their own activities. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will ensure entrepreneurs and establish good social arrangements, including: by looking at the conditions for self-employed persons to combine professional careers with childcare. Clearly, even if it should not be so, women place greater emphasis on the possibility of balancing family and child care with regard to their professional career. It shouldn't have been like that, but it is. The Minister of Knowledge showed in his response to several actions that will work positively, and that is good. However, if we are to succeed in ensuring an equal working life, more – yes, all – departments on the track must be involved. In the debate on a proposal for a representative on better social security rights for self-employed workers for a short time, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs gave clear signals that her department is also on the road to ensuring a more equal working life. The draft representative points out that in 2005 there were twice as many men as women who started single-son businesses, and three times as many men as women who started partnerships with shared responsibility. If we are to get more women to invest in a career as a self-employed person, I am sure that it is necessary to have schemes that are more equal to the schemes that professionals have with regard to the coverage of important welfare schemes such as maternity, maternity and adoption benefits. It's gonna cost you, right, but I guess they're gonna cost you 120 million. This is intended to cost will obviously be an important incentive for young women to venture. At least we politicians cannot limit ourselves to sucking at young women who do not dare to put good ideas into action by setting up their own businesses. We cannot, and should not, eliminate the risk by investing in business ventures, but we can help to remove some of the burden of the bet. From the centre of the party, improving the social security rights of self-employed women is a major priority, and in the first place, we believe that equality with workers in terms of birth and adoption benefits must be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e264	Since there was a man with a witness here before today, I want to say that I belong to the generation that voted through the quota in the left's statutes. That mountain party. I helped pick Norway's first female party leader, and I experienced the women's coup in 1971. It shocked the games. Then I have discovered on my wanderings through the world what is rightly called here for the divided landscape. But at first I choose to stick to the facts today, namely that the interpellant has asked the question to the Minister of Knowledge and not to the Minister for Gender Equality. Then I'll start there. Then we can start with a principal at a elementary school in Oslo, a mathematician, who was advised by his adviser a few good years ago that she should choose the English line – as it was at the time – even though she had obvious talents in her field and didn't leave it hidden. I readily agree that something that is absolutely crucial in the school's ability to influence is two things. First of all, it's what you clearly say about the value of the subject – I'm going to get back to it – and it's advice. In Education-Norway, it is important to invest in an advisory service that is extremely competent in the field of vocational guidance, based on heavy insight, and which can at the same time be a wise adviser to its colleagues and others in what we can call learning strategies and teaching and study techniques. On the left, there is a reform of general teacher training and good follow-up training for those who are there now, so I agree with the interpellant that there are very important measures. The role models are the second. Then I will start with Camilla Schreiner, who has a doctorate in meteorology, and gave a talk at the NHO Annual Conference on 4 January. She said that she had examined how to choose a real science gender. She said that young women, often categorized into the groups of idealists, creative women, don't choose heavy science because they don't see the benefits or the value of it. Here, I do not see benefits as benefits in terms of money, but as moral, ethical and social benefits. Then it must be possible quite early in life to tell you that there is a gripping point that buildings don't rage in people's heads. It must be good to tell people that tunnels are to be built so that they don't rage together either. It must be possible to describe this properly, and at a time of significant and huge climate challenges, it must be possible to say that it is very important to enter heavy real science precisely because it has something to do with the fate and life of both present and future generations. But then you have to talk like that, then the language has to be like that, and then the role models have to be like that. Camilla Schreiner, with a doctorate in meteorology, is an example of a role model, and she gives us advice. She says, "Go out and talk to me." Even I'm an example of that. A legitimate woman named Lillian Bye, who was the principal of the social school in Trondheim, said, "Dørum, you're going to be a fellow!" She didn't say "Uncle Sam wants you," but she pointed at me. It was a woman-dominated position, but the lady had a call, and I lusted, for I was convinced. She had a considerable agitation, so it goes on to talk like that. Then I have to ask the question, how many school leaders and school counselors speak like this today? Too few! That's why it's a really good point. So, of course, it's a point to do with what several principals have taught me in Oslo School, where you walk around in these women's collectives that are Norwegian primary schools, where it's called for male role pictures. Then I came to two schools – a school in the inner east and one on the west, where I met two very experienced female school principals, principals – where the proportion of people was up to 30 p.m., usually much lower. I asked, how do you get it? They just looked at me and said, "By recruitment, of course!" They've understood the point, and they've realized that it's useful to talk to people, as apparently Lillian Bye spoke to me when I was going to be a lecturer in social work. It's quite possible, but you have to give people, who were also involved in the interpellant, the role images and the examples, the catalogue of it. I personally think that it is absolutely excellent. I also agree that the Council of State has made very wise and sensible efforts both in the forum for real science and in the efforts of women in research. Here is an example: Young fellows — women, but also men — often need a rule on the life of a fellow student, which means that they may be allowed to continue as a fellow student even if they have to be away because of a sick child. There are some such adjustments in everyday life's organization that you can take with you, and I'm sure the Council of State is listening to. The last point for me is that the Left, like the representative Sundsbø, believes that we can get more women, but also men of the new generation, into the private business by looking at social security rights for workers, simply providing us with the word "worker" in addition to the employee and making it honorable. Even I've met many of these role models. It's just walking to Akerselva Innovation in Oslo, you'll find just a lot of these very competent female entrepreneurs, who are proud of it, who have a good background, and who it shines off. Getting hold of these examples, which I understood was the second key point of the interpellant, I support. I also support the point of a sparkling good and competent, insightful school counseling, based on the good and bad experiences of life. But we're going to grow the good ones!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e295	The issue of a sex-shared working life is a very important topic, and I would like to start by thanking the interpellant for giving us the opportunity to discuss this topic here today. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a very good answer. Personally, I come from a home where the gender roles were very stereotyped. My father worked as a truck driver, and my mother was a housewife and after every part-time assistant. Although I haven't jerked off to be so awfully old yet, fortunately it has happened very much since I first saw the light of day. It has become more and more common for girls to take higher education, and in some areas they actually lead sovereignly over the boys. These are great numbers. But in one area, there is still a huge gender gap, and this is found in the professions. It is that there are very few boys who choose health and social sciences, and there are even fewer girls who choose, for example. mechanical subjects. When I was going to choose a profession, I ended up following in my father's footsteps – as it's called fine. He had also followed in his father's footsteps – so that's how I can almost say like Arne L. Haugen, that I personally have not done exactly the very great effort to achieve a less gender-based working life. But that makes me have some relevant experiences that I want to share with you. In my professional life I notice well the attitudes that exist. For example, there is a very common perception in my workplace that trucking is not for women. They have nothing to do behind a truck wheel. This irritates me, it irritates me immensely. On the other hand, boys who choose a profession in the care sector are also seen to have sloppy eyes. It is not very masculine to take care of the elderly, sick and children. Is that it? This old-fashioned attitude makes young people hardly feel that they have the opportunity to choose the subject they want – if they want it once. To fix this, I think it would be very, very important to do something about the consulting service. Because, without accusing anyone, I have a strong suspicion that there are a lot of advisors around at our high school with attitudes that have gone out on a long time ago. I believe that girls and boys who have chosen an untraditional profession should not just be backed up, but should be encouraged to do so initially. The lorry industry is one of the most man-dominated industries, and there they have a huge labour shortage. This should make the industry start getting a lot better at getting girls, because as the council and several others have mentioned before me, you're missing out on a huge amount of competence by just choosing half the population. In fact, I am well aware, it has been called upon to actively recruit girls in Norway's Lastebileier-Federal. If this is true, it's very nice and it's an example for follow-up. It's just that if you're going to start cleaning up the biases, you're going to see that there are more girls like that. wants to start driving a lorry if they feel like a desired defect. Similarly, it will be much easier for boys to take a job in the care sector if they are informed that they are a badly needed resource. Having said everything in this debate today, I believe that this is still a problem that cannot be solved overnight. But as it's been mentioned before me, I think it's a very, very long step in the right direction to achieve good cooperation between business and schools with an increased focus on gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e317	I have listened to the discussion in this matter and found it very interesting. I think we're going to listen very much to the interpellant's input and suggestions, because she puts her finger in important areas that can have major long-term consequences if we put in proper grips. In addition, we should listen to the Council's response and acknowledge that more measures are already being put in place and notified in the near future. So we're on the right track, but it's still a long way to go before the goal that's been given, for example. in the Soria Moria Declaration, reached. Nevertheless, I would like to make some points of view that I think we can take with us in the debate, and not least in dealing with matters in the future that will have a bearing on gender equality. It is not difficult to confirm that we are still living in a human-dominated society, where women must prove that they are twice as tough and twice as strong as men before they are accepted as equal. I have to say that it strongly contradicts the fact that, over and over again, year after year, there are significant pay differences between the sexes despite equal education and equal work. At the same time, it obliges me to record what the Council of State said, and as he confirmed with statistics, that there are still gender-divided attitudes in the workplace. Later in the spring, Stortinget will deal with a message called «... and no one stood again», St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, on early efforts for lifelong learning. Here, the Stortinget is challenged to say something about, among other things. the advisory service. Today, there are no requirements for the competence of the consultant, and when we know that counselling can mean a great deal for the student’s choice of occupation and choice of study, greater requirements for the competence of the consultant will have to be made in the future. Last week, the Education Committee visited the University of Tromsø, where we visited, among others. Get a closer knowledge of the Education.no website. This is one of several tools that needs to be made more accessible to the students. Through such a portal, both counselling services, students and students are better able to see what demands are being made and challenges are being addressed to each individual. This is, as I said, something the Stortinge will come back to when this communication is being discussed, but it is important to bring this about in this debate in this way. There should be no doubt that knowing and knowing how to use and understand tools, such as the web portal, while the adviser must know and understand both local business and business in general is very important. It's at the end of the time when we can just read ourselves into a sense of reality. Making use of the instruments is putting reality into practice. Furthermore, it is exciting to see how important it is for the student to get into business and to try out, or to become better acquainted with what business has to offer. There should be closer and better cooperation between school and business. Here, we need to improve our relationships. But there is also a significant responsibility on the companies themselves. Because it's a fact that companies will profit from being early on marketing themselves to future employees, and there's no doubt that companies will profit from us getting better equality in the long term. Overall, we're talking here about attitudes. The earlier we take action and create better attitudes in gender equality, the better it is. Here it is that kindergartens play a big role. It is very positive that the Minister of Education focuses on getting more men to choose education as pre-school teachers. Of course, in this context, there is a positive impact on the massive effort to achieve full child-care coverage in Norway. As we've heard before, it might seem that we don't fully know all the relationships and reasons why the sexes choose differently, and that the genders come out differently when the starting point is otherwise similar. Therefore, it may be both clever and appropriate to research more into this, so that we can put more targeted measures in place for the benefit of everyone. I am pleased that the interpellant raises this question, so that we do not rest when it comes to continuing work for gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e336	I must first thank you for a nice debate. I'm very much in agreement with everyone who has had the word here today. There have been many good reports, and it seems that everyone who's been in the hall wants to move in the same direction, both when it's up to women and men to choose untraditionally, and when it's up to women to start their own businesses. All in all, they all have a measure of full equality. I really appreciate that. But I have to say I'm a little upset that the Progress Party and the Right didn't even bother to take the floor in such an important debate about our society. That's what I thought people should notice. State councils are talking about projects to get boys who have chosen kindergartens to get longer in kindergarten. I'm glad he says that. For some of the things that we also talk about when we work with girls in non-traditional subjects, first we have to have a recruitment program, and then we have to take care of them, because those who run and take non-traditional subjects can become lonely and need a network around them. It is very important that we take care of these. I'm glad the representative Haugen says we have to be impatient. That's great. The Christian People's Party also has many good impressions. I agree with the representative Molvær Grimstad in what she said that the pay gap also leads to equality in the world, and I agree with the other statements she made. Representatives from both the Centre Party and Left talk about founding. On the side of the work I do here, I have also worked a lot to get more women founders. We also need to put in place some measures, as the Central Party’s representative said, such as removing the burden by starting on itself and making everyday life easier for those who are dry. These are important measures. Role models, says Doorum. Maybe that's what's so difficult, because there are few role models. That's why I think we have to start by putting together a national strategy, where we can combine all the experience and the role models we have, so that we can get more. In the footsteps of his father, Countess says. It's like we've been trained to do, and what we see around us. That's why consulting is so important. That's why the possibility of coming out and looking at the world of work is so important. Then I just want to read a short sentence from the Daily, from a paragraph they call "Continue Women's Hunting": ‘Sex balance is and will become a question of democracy’. I think the key to more equality is to end the sex-shared labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e360	Let me first thank the interpellant again, and not least thank the Stortinget for a very good debate. I think what Dørum called testimony, made this debate become more personal in many ways, for such testimony is probably many of us who have observed in their own lives or in the lives of others, and it is a very important piece to get on with the important work that we are doing. I shall confine myself to what is going on in the field of education, which is my main responsibility. Here, too, many good experiences and suggestions have emerged in the debate that we are going to take with us. We will, as I said, present our own strategy in a short time, and it will be important to take these experiences into account. I can respond to the representative Opheim that we will also look at research that goes on girls and real science. We'll ask the research community to take a special look at the knowledge we have, and not least to supplement it with girls' identity, culture, attitude and learning in real science and getting more knowledge about how to move on. This will also be brought into the National Forum on Real Science, which will be an important venue for discussion with the labour market. It's very important, as many people have said, that working life is a key factor in getting on with this. If the labour market does not itself recognise that this is a challenge and a problem, it almost does not help what we do in the education sector, because then it will stop in the labour market. But making boys winners in school is an important part of this. Unfortunately, boys are the losers in the schools. Girls score consistently better in all subjects, except in body practice. Many of the boys feel uncomfortable, and we also see that a lot of boys fall out of high school. This may be because the school has become a feminine arena too much. That doesn't mean we don't have many fantastic nice women in the education and kindergarten sector, but the gender balance has been over time. This means that recruiting boys for these important professions is also a very central challenge. The interpellant in its introduction, of course, stressed that it is not just about getting girls to human occupations. It is equally important to make boys choose non-traditional professions. We will further address many of the challenges raised in the debate in this strategy. We hope that the strategy we are putting forward will help us to be able over time to achieve a better development in relation to the challenges we face in terms of choices. But I am also pleased that the Storting will now shortly discuss the big message ‘...and no one was left’, where this with the counselling service is a central piece. Several of the debates focused on the importance of having a competent advisory service that can provide advice. This means that we will now share the counselling service. This means that counselling and career guidance will be a central piece, and in particular it is very important to get gender perspective and gender element into this, and to give boys and girls advice that may be slightly different from what Mom and Dad would have traditionally given advice on. Because once again, as parents, we give advice in the sphere of interest and the professional world that we know, and it is easy to see that then the choice of children becomes very parallel to the choice of parents, which also emerged in the debate. That's why I think this is an important tool to move on in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e373	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e391	One of the real environmental problems in Norway is that related to noise. Half a million Northmen are plagued with noise every day. It is a major challenge for Norway to implement measures in the years to come that can reduce this scourge. It's also the case that unwanted sound goes off. This applies to everything from the noise of the dwelling, the noise of cars, aircraft and trains to the noise of the shooting field, valves and points of entry. It's also true that more than 200,000 have trouble sleeping because of noise. More than 300000 people experience road traffic noise as a nuisance. Noise poses a serious health problem. The adverse effects are not limited to stress, irritation and self-harm. Barriers increase the risk of accidents, high blood pressure and the development of heart disease. About 300 Nordics die prematurely every year as a result of noise. Danish and German research on noise pollution suggests figures of such magnitude. Had we had names and images of these noise victims, this might have looked different. In 1990, the size of the population reached a target of reducing noise pollution in Norway by 25 pst. by 2010. In fact, many governments have to take responsibility for not being there today, including the government that I sat down to. We've had a Bondevik I government, we've had a Stoltenberg I government, and we've had a Bondevik II government. It has been difficult to get through the necessary measures. In fact, there are also some counterclaims from various directorates and interest groups, so there is no simple job at all to go in the right direction in this area. But there are also other environmental goals that we have set ourselves, which are demanding. In the context of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom, Stortinget has stated that we should have a policy that helps us not to lose biodiversity by 2010. It is also the case that we are going to achieve our Kyoto commitments both nationally and internationally – that is also a demanding goal. It is true that there are proposals for a number of measures that can be implemented in the field of noise. Because this is such a demanding area – I know it myself too – I was surprised, when the Soria Moria declaration came in autumn 2005, that even in a situation where noise pollution in Norway had increased by 2 pst. Since 1990, the Red-Green Government has chosen in its government platform to state that by 2010 noise would be reduced by 25 pst in Norway. I know how complicated this is, so I was very surprised that it was established. I assume that after examining the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom in the spring of 2005, the possibilities for achieving this kind of reduction have been thoroughly explored. I think it is important that the Council of States today share with us what assessments were on the basis of which Soria Moria actually chose to repeat this objective. The Soria Moria Declaration also states that a strategic plan should be put in place to achieve this objective. We have not yet seen anything about the strategic plan, and I think it is important that the Council of State today also explain when this plan is coming. Tord Lien from the Progress Party asked the Council of State Bjørnøy a question through the Stortinget last spring. The Council of State then stood firm on the objective of Soria Moria, and that the Stortinget would be given an explanation of the measures already in the state budget last harvest. No review of the last harvest of the State budget was carried out. On the contrary, it was fine little about it, and it is now referred to the next report on the state of the state of the state of the kingdom. But after that, after the Soria Moria statement had chosen to repeat the promise of 25 pst. reduction – which is very ambitious and very demanding – has resulted in a discussion on how to respond to this environmental objective at all. There is now a discussion, as we have seen in the newspapers, that the Government is actually considering reducing the level of ambition set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. I hope that this doesn't end with the fact that when you're striving for an environmental goal, you're just changing the environmental goal. When Norway now has emissions of between 8 and 10 pst. higher than what has been laid down in our internationally legally binding liability under the Kyoto Protocol, it is not that we can simply remove the environmental objective in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. Then we have to put in extra measures. As far as the noise target is concerned, I hope it's not being removed. I hope you stand by it and work on it. However, there will of course be a broad understanding that no action can be taken in three and a half years to achieve the goal fully. I think we have to admit that. But I think the goal should be there, and now we have to get a plan of action on the table, as the Government has promised, and on which we have to discuss. When can these immediate measures be applied to the most exposed to noise? It's on façade insulation, noise shields and environmental tunnels. It's a budget question. When will we invest more in new technologies, low-noise roads, vehicles, car tyres and technology development? There are also opportunities in the field of transport policy and taxation policy. It would have been possible to use this to protest that the Government is not now following its own promise from the Soria Moria Declaration. It's been 1 and 1/2 years since it was given, and nothing has happened. I don't think that's the reason, but I think we in Stortinget should actually discuss how we can put in place effective measures to help those facing these noise challenges. At least the government can't make it a major point that nothing has been done before, and that it won't do anything. It was aware of developments before the adoption of the Soria Moria Declaration. There had been a slight increase in noise pollution and no reduction after the target was set. Nevertheless, it was decided. What assessments were made, and what measures should be implemented? Now it's been 1 and 1/2 years without anything worth following up on this. At any rate, we in the Right are willing to contribute to an innovation related to what is immediate action: to invest more in research, and also a new investment in technology. This applies to low-noise car tyres and to other types of asphalt tyres and the like. It can really mean a difference for those who are exposed to noise. What we depend on now is answers from the Council of State to the question of the interpellation: Is it so that the Government stands firm at the goal of the Soria Moria Declaration to reduce by 25 pst. by 2010, or is it considered to change the noise target? Is it the case that a package of measures is to be presented, and when, if appropriate, will it come? Is it so that the Government can also plan to join with the Energy and Environment Committee and the Stortingen so that we can jointly try to reach out to measures that can be effective? We haven't gotten that far. And as I said, there are many of us who have a responsibility for, including myself. But the fact that these objectives have not been fully achieved does not mean that we should abdicate from this debate. I was actually among those who thought that when they wrote this noise target into the Soria Moria statement, they had thought through how it was to be achieved, and that they weren't just going to toe their hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e414	We are facing major challenges in the noise field. Since the national noise target was promoted by the Bondevik I government in 1999, it has been too small to reduce noise pollution. Several governments are responsible for this, and that in practice we are far from being able to achieve the target of 25 pst. reduction by 2010. Estimates show that the overall noise nuisance in Norway has increased by 2 pst. from 1999 to 2006. Noise is an environmental problem that affects many people in Norway. There are about 1.7 million people who are exposed to noise at their homes in Norway, and by the way half a million of these are heavily plagued by the noise. Noise contributes to dissatisfaction, disrupts night sleep and prevents both communication, concentration and learning. We also know that noise causes stress and health problems that cause muscle tension and muscle pain. Studies show that noise also increases the risk of increased blood pressure and the development of heart disease. There is therefore a clear need for a joint commitment in the fight against noise, and I am very pleased that the representatives of the big businessman Børge Brende are concerned about this. At the same time, when the noise target was set, it was decided to carry out an evaluation and any adjustment to the 2005 target in order to ensure that it was in line with a socially and environmentally sound level. This evaluation, which was then decided to be carried out, is in the process of being carried out. State pollution control, social and health actions, and the National Institute for Public Health have provided the technical basis for the evaluation. The investigation they have prepared, which includes, inter alia: contain scenario calculations for future developments and a new assessment of the potential of different measures and instruments shows that it is not realistic to achieve the national target we have today. There has been little progress in the seven years since the Bondevik I government promoted this ambitious goal, and it is now shortly by 2010. In the survey of the levels, it is emphasised that there is also a great need for research and testing of different measures that can reduce the noise at source. There are, among other things: not far enough with the development and testing of low-noise road surfaces, and it is also per. nowadays uncertainties related to the noise characteristics of different types of car decks on Norwegian roads. Measures to reduce the noise at source are necessary to bring about a significant reduction in the noise pollution. Source measures have a lower cost impact on more noise exposure than remedial measures such as façade insulation and noise shielding, and are necessary to reduce noise pollution on a broad basis. The ETAs propose to target a new national target for the reduction of general noise pollution by 2020 and have identified different levels of ambition. In addition to the efforts to reduce overall noise pollution in society, the etas also propose that specific measures be taken for the most exposed to noise. They therefore propose a new objective aimed at improving the situation of those exposed to the highest noise levels and increasing the action limit in the indoor noise pollution regulation. I believe there is a clear need to strengthen the work against noise. That is why this government is now drawing up an action plan in which we are putting our efforts into practice. I am concerned that we are going to reduce the noise problems that people are facing, and that we are going to have targets on the noise field that are ambitious but at the same time realistic. This is what we aim to explain in more detail in the next report on the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state. The action plan will focus on the main noise sources, in particular road traffic noise. In the coming years, it is important to ensure the basis for long-term investment through increased investment in key R & D measures. At the same time, I believe that we should strengthen the efforts that can be made in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e431	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. I think it is positive to take this challenge of noise pollution seriously. I can agree with the Council of State's assessments on the consequences of noise today. There are half a million people who are afflicted, and 200,000–300,000 are heavily afflicted. We have not prioritised this with noise pollution high enough in Norway, nor since we set the environmental objective in 1999. But I think the noise would actually have been even bigger if that goal hadn't been set. That's what we've seen in some other contexts. What the Council of State now says, and which I also think is on the positive side, is related to the communication on the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state, that is, it will list actions that the Government will implement in the future. I think it is important that the Ministry of the Environment is the leader in this matter. The transport sector represents 90 pst. of the noise that is troubling, and it is good that the Ministry of the Environment is overseeing and pushing. At the same time, I hope that we will not conclude by removing the environmental objective in the state of the kingdom, even though it is very, very difficult to achieve, and it is not possible to achieve it in the next three and a half years. The Minister for the Environment is absolutely right about that. But I'm also afraid of the precedent effect, that's the effect of seeing that you don't reach the goal: if you're just going to zero it out, or if you're going to get as far as you can, and then look at what's necessary, and change the goal when you start approaching? It is now also necessary for the Stortinget to press on in this matter, so that the Minister of Transport takes his responsibility, and that other government councils also take responsibility, so not everything is delegated to the Minister of Environmental Protection, who is coordinating for this, but who do not have the real means to bring about reductions – that is, to coordinate. I look forward to having a proper review of these possibilities in the communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, and to being willing to use resources on this with noise abatement measures in both the short and the long term, and also on the piece of research, because it is a great cost to the people who are being hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e444	I want to confirm what the representative Burnde says. I think most of us have the experience from different parts of our society that doing a good job helps us achieve the goals that we set ourselves. It is absolutely necessary that we get proper analysis, that we assess what can actually do to achieve the necessary effects of the measures that we are going to take. It is quite right that the evaluation we are currently carrying out has taken a little longer than foreseen, and therefore this result was not presented in the 2007 state budget, but we are now aiming to present it in the next communication on the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state. We have also made sure that we have made this thorough assessment and seen things in context. I am very pleased that Børge Brende expresses so much agreement around the necessity that we take the necessary steps to reduce the noise scourge for those who are most badly affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e453	At first, I think the interpellant deserves praise for having raised an important debate on a topic that is very often underestimated – perhaps because it is so demanding, as it has been underlined here both by the Council of State and by interpellant – but which means very much to many people's daily well-being and quality of life. It's estimated that about half a million people are plagued by noise. A large proportion of them, about 100,000, live in my state, which is Oslo. 85 000 of them have their plagues linked to the road. It is also in Oslo that the large areas where people are exposed to high levels of noise and are under considerable pressure – for example. in the Groruddalen, which is the densest population in the country, while the area is subject to enormous traffic pressures from the main roads through the valley. We're very far from being able to say that the goal of reducing noise pollution by 25 pst. has been reached. Since 1999, when the target was set, developments have gone in the wrong direction. Many are responsible, and this is serious. Although noise emitted by railways, airports and industry has been reduced, the increase in road traffic has meant that overall noise pollution has increased year by year. There's no doubt that it's the roads that are the big challenge when you're going to do something real about people's plagues. In 2000, there were about 2.8 million motor vehicles in Norway. Every Norwegian traveled an average of 38.5 km every day – twice as far as 30 years ago. Although each car is fighting a little less now than at the time, it says itself that we are exposed to completely different noise levels now than for just a few decades back. It's worrying when we know how much noise can have on people's health. In particular, those exposed to the high noise levels. It's not just about stress and sleep problems, it's also about more serious diseases that you've been dealing with here before. This is well documented. That's not something you have to worry about. If you look anyway, you can only take a walk up to the most busy areas that are just a few minutes away by the T-Bahn from this building. There are the housing blocks close down towards large main entryways such as the E6 and Trondheimswegen. The noise load in some of these areas is huge. After staying for a while at e.g. E6 on the Furuset, no one will have trouble realizing that it can go hard on both night sleep and well-being. This government has focused heavily on the Groruddalen. Historically, there is now a focus on upgrading the entire valley, both in terms of inclusion, housing and, not least, transport. Here the lid above the E6 is an important requirement from the valley in the context of Oslopackak 3 and the national transport plan – a measure that will mean a great deal to a very densely populated and highly traffic-stricken area. Then I am pleased that the Government will now concreteize goals that the professional bodies believe it is realistic to achieve – because unrealistic goals work against their purpose – and not least how we will manage to achieve them. For me and for the Workers' Party, it is important to focus on those who are exposed to the highest noise, since it is those who are clearly the most vulnerable to health problems. Research efforts so that we can find effective ways to limit road traffic noise become important. There we have a good deal to go, but it's absolutely crucial if we're going to be able to do something fundamental about the problem. Road traffic represents 80 pst.–90 pst. of the noise that plagues people. That is why we need to find new and efficient solutions for road traffic. At the same time, we need to be able to increase the efforts that can be put in place in the short term to address the problems where they are most acute. I look forward to getting a proper action plan on the table, and that this will be a topic when we deal with the Communication on the State of the State of the Environment in a short time. I fully agree with the inter-pellant that this is a debate from which we cannot abdicate, even if it is difficult. I am very pleased with the signals that we get from the Minister today, that this is an area that is being prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e470	The interpellant debate that Mr Brende is going to attend today is both an important and an interesting debate. Noise pollution is one of the unresolved environmental problems in this country. That is why I would like to thank Mr Brende for the chance to take the debate and also thank the Council of State for a good answer. Noise pollution is a problem to which too little attention has been paid. That is why I now hope that we can focus on both the target numbers and the instruments that need to be used to achieve the targets. The government is quite clear in the Soria Moria statement, which also the Bondevik government was while Børge Brende was the Council of State there. Now the reduction in noise pollution during the Bondevik administration was not so good either. If I interpret the Council of States correctly, I'm glad that the Government wants to maintain the target, a reduction of 25 pst., although it can hardly happen by 2010. When the representative Marthinsen of the Workers' Party was in the pulpit, it was more uncertain whether the target number should be maintained. It bothers me a little bit. The state of the Kingdom’s environment was addressed in 2000. That was then the goal of a reduction of 25 pst. came, which has also been repeated later. It's been seven years. Very little has happened. It is only three years for the targets to be met. It should be done, however, that the objectives are achieved within that period. In the last few days’ debate on climate and emission reduction targets, much is reminiscent of the play ‘think of a number’. The jam doesn't seem to be the case for the noise measurements as well. 25 pst. The reduction in noise was probably heard easily in 2000. Ten years might also have been a good time to implement this – if anyone had taken hold of it! After having browsed through various speeches by the representative Burnde in the previous period, I find that bets on public transport and reduction in snowmobile traffic were instruments the Bondevik government had, without it looking like it had a significant effect on the noise problem. All parties and environmental protection ministers who have been in office since 2000 should take their share of responsibility. Half a million people are plagued by noise pollution. That is why concrete targets for reducing this are in place. In this context, as in the climate debate, I would like to discuss actions and costs along with the objectives. For the Progress Party, it will be important to try to achieve the original noise target. If this is not achieved by 2010, and it seems improper to do so, more time may have to be allowed to reach the target, but it should remain firm. In any case, the work to achieve the goal needs to be intensified — if you can call it an intensification of what you have barely taken with your hands. We know that noise from cars and road traffic accounts for more than three-quarters of the noise pollution that is registered. More and more people live near larger traffic paths, either because people choose to move to the roads, or because the roads are placed where people live. The recommendation of the Progress Party to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment will therefore be to give priority to actions that can contribute to the reduction of road traffic. Let me send a greeting to Trondheim on that occasion. In the city I live, there is a lot of exciting happening within this field. Sintef and NTNU operate, among others: research and development of new road surfaces that are much smaller than the traditional asphalt we find all over the world. This research costs money. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State will find if she rises and visits this exciting environment at the Sintef Acoustics at the Glöshaugen in Trondheim. Trondheim has also chosen to add large new traffic lanes to and from the centre of tunnels and coal yards. This also reduces noise pollution for those living near the road. Then I would like to mention the driving tax policy of the Progress Party. It is improper that new cars with new engines and new decks are several times smaller than old cars with old engines and old tyres. Perhaps the Council of State can send it to the Minister of Finance that it is now time to do something about the car charges. I will end by saying that the Progress Party believes, as I said earlier, that noise that causes people both disadvantages and mental and physical suffering is pollution – pollution that must be combated in the same way as other types of pollution. Unlike CO2, it is not possible to buy noise allowances abroad. This problem needs to be solved locally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e501	This has evolved into a very interesting debate. It is commendable that the theme has been addressed by the representative Burnde. I also think that the Council of State’s response – and feedback – is positive, in that the Council of State recognises that little has been done in this area, and also acknowledges that we will not be able to achieve the objectives set. It's a confession that we all have to take over, and it's probably the best starting point for giving these problems more attention and having it as a background to work on. The subject of noise, I think, is that this has a low status in the big social debate. I think we're not familiar with the dark numbers in relation to the noise concept -- they give a negative image and a negative result. This has low status. It's almost like we don't see the extent of the problems noise causes individuals and society as a whole. That's why it's our job when we're trying to achieve the goals we set, that we take this into account, and that we have an active political approach to the problem. When the Council of State refers to the daily impact of noise in Norway on 1.7 million people, and 500000 are heavily affected, this figure is required to be heard and requires greater attention. It is shown for car traffic, air traffic, train traffic, field of fire, valves, checkpoints, workplace noise, etc. So we can ask ourselves the question: is it because we lack regulations, because we lack laws in this country, that this is allowed to evolve? I'm not so sure. But I see that we are able to operate with some form of police status, so that it is possible to respond to people who are unable to stay within thresholds or laws and regulations. Maybe we should now have tightened our attention and got a noise police on the track that could have taken care of the most serious and worst cases. We're going to have to get started. We have laws and regulations to ensure that noise screens, facade changes, environmental tunnels, etc. can be put in place as soon as possible where they should. I have seen that in my own hometown, which in many ways has perhaps been the most plagued by noise over decades, namely the airport of Bodø, it has been possible to reduce the noise strongly both by noise screens, regulations on traffic and procedures for taking off and landing etc., which means that those living in the aerodrome-near areas now have a completely different everyday life than was the case before. I also believe, as the interpellant has pointed out, that by positive incentives it is possible to achieve good results in the short term: stimulating the construction of low-noise buses, aircraft, cars, etc. A lot of people have been into it. But the worst thing is that noise is also a main source of recruiting people into unemployment. Today, in Norway, there are about 700,000 women and men in pre-employment who are out of work. We have 450,000 disabled people — including people with problems due to noise — with a professional participation of only approx. 46 pst. The figure is decreasing and not rising as for all other groups in this country. This is, as many people have been faced with, a major social problem, which requires us to address it now and implement active political actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e521	Børge Brende should be commended for bringing up a matter that many people are guilty of not being able to do anything about. I also record that the representative Burnde has a slightly lower cigarette orientation here in the staging room than he has in the media when it comes to this theme – the government is defined in the evening post as hopelessly lacking in noise issues. I choose to believe that we have an undoing sin in front of us in relation to the low effort he has made himself, and that one now gets a representative who really needs to do something about it and come up with the bot-and-approach policy that you put up in this interview. You can see that the Right is now being offensive to the noise area. To find out how much effort has been made in the area of Right in Government, a search for noise and Børge Burnde at Odin can be done. There is one discovery that noise is called two or three times that an area council has been busy by. But now this is going to get better. I want to answer the question of the noise measurement, which the Council of State has also answered, that the noise measurement is firm. It's in the Soria Moria statement, and it's made by the Storting. If you want to change that goal, the Stortinget must anchor it. That means that a government has to ask the government to change it. Now we have a plural government, and the government insists on what is stated in the Soria Moria statement, until something else is determined by the plural here on the Stortinget. For information only - the noise target is fixed. When it comes to the package of measures, we have begun to do so in this government. We've got a completely different investment on the railway than the previous government got. We're moving traffic from road – which is the big problem, and we're all a few in the description – to track-based solutions, which have a completely different problem setting to noise targets and noise problems. To the question of cooperation projects, which is the last area Børge Burnde mentions: Of course, this government is interested in working with the most possible parties to increase the weight of what one would have done. But there is a question of the Right that will be involved in the many environmental measures that the Government wants to face: will one have the high railway effort that this government has, or will one give priority to other things? Will be involved in rather tough measures linked to reduced car traffic, thus reducing noise, for example. in some cities? The Minister of Transport, SV and others have been involved in this with rush-time charges, which one has tried out in Stockholm. Such charges will lead to dramatic reductions in noise. I hope that what the representative Burnde is now addressing is something more than noise pollution from the Right, that there is actually a willingness to bet on actions that get away from the noise. I had the pleasure of being an environmental policy spokesman for SV as Børge Brende himself was the State Council. I have registered a very high cigarette feed in other areas, linking to the ambitions of climate policy, while one in government has built highly impurising gas power plants, which release 1 million. tonnes of CO2 without any clean-up requirement. There has been too much cigarette smoking in my opinion. Equally when it comes to the balance of power in Central Norway – this government gets the blame for the problems, at the same time as Børge Burnde put in government, that the Worm Lange project was settled and the issue was raised. I hope that what we see today is a representative from the Right who dampens the cigaretteing saying something. I have the impression that he's doing that now. I would like to invite Right to Cooperation in many areas, not least noise, but then one does not do what Right does in its budget – bets 100 pst. on the road, and without mentioning the noise at all in its own proposal for a State budget. It's not listed. It is good that Burnde is now a repentant sinner. Now it is time that the undoing of the sins results in concrete measures, which lead to the actual achievement of the noise target in 2010. I'm looking forward to that, at least in the government. So let's see how long the Right is on the load -- I don't think it's going to be that long.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e545	The President is a little uncertain as to whether the President can acknowledge that Børge Brende is a "repentant sins". We're using the smallest possible characteristics in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e549	People's community is important for well-being and health. A good local environment requires noise emission requirements. The Christian People's Party believes that efforts must be made to reduce noise and to include noise mitigation in social planning. We need clear targets in order to make a good plan to get things done. But goals and plans are nothing worth without action. Therefore, the objectives are important, so that we can assess whether we're achieving something at all. In December, the Christian People's Party co-proposed a proposal asking the Government to present an action plan in spring 2007 to meet the promise of the Soria Moria Declaration to reduce noise pollution by 25 pst. by 2010. This proposal was defeated without further justification by the majority of the population. At the same time, we have heard today that the Government is working on an assessment of the national noise target and the level of ambition of indoor noise in the pollution control regulation. As far as I can see, the government will discuss this objective, as it was also said instead, in the communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the land in the spring. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this matter comes to Stortinget in connection with this announcement. The great moment of tension is whether the Government holds to the goal of the Soria Moria Declaration, or whether it turns out to be unrealistic at this point as well. The Christian People's Party will study the evaluation and the Government's assessments carefully when the message comes to spring. Initially, the Christian People's Party wants to maintain the goal of reducing the noise scourge by 25 pst. in relation to 1999. Already now, we will signal the will to take action to reduce people's noise pollution. It is important to ensure provisions that include noise as an assessment criterion in societal planning. Furthermore, we must be willing to take remedial action, be noise abatement in traffic areas or put in place new automotive and road technologies. However, we are facing major challenges. Increased population and more densely populated areas will make the population more plagued by noise. In the Christian People's Party, we are willing to bet on public transport in the cities. If we can reduce the use of a private car in this way, it could also reduce the noise from road traffic. That is why we were greatly disappointed by the cut that the Government included in the 2007 budget for the reward scheme for public transport in the big cities. We choose to believe that this was a mistake on the part of the Minister of Transport, and that the cut will be corrected in the revised national budget. We are aware that most of the noise comes from the transport sector and that the most costly measures need to be put into this sector. At the same time, it is important to look at other local noise sources and the working environment. Several people now point to the fact that noise is a nuisance in e.g. kindergartens. It's tiring for both children and adults. It is, of course, about working methods, but it is also about the physical organisation of kindergartens and play areas. The Christian People's Party will insist that we need concrete targets to work on noise pollution. The objectives must determine the scope of the necessary measures. Then we politicians have to be willing to find the resources needed to achieve the goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e564	For my part, I think this has been a constructive debate so far. It is undoubtedly an important area, which deserves more attention in the public debate than it has had. I also share the understanding of reality presented by the Minister for the Environment to the Storting and look forward to getting a closer look at this already in the context of dealing with the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom to spring. It is well possible that the representative Burnde has been more offensive in the media compared to what he is here in the hall. However, I stress that he has shown a very constructive attitude here at least on this issue, and I think that is right, also because the measures to be taken are, to a large extent, funding issues, resource issues, money issues. Then one depends on having the will to give priority. So far there can be no doubt that there are few parties here in the hall that have prioritised sufficient funds to this area to achieve either one or the other goal. I'm not going to conclude with the target discussion, but having realistic goals, I think is very important. Tord Lien drew the parallel to the climate debate. It's a parallel that I see and share the perception of. The competition for who was most capable of climate policy began in 1989. That time I think it was the Center Party that won with the highest ambitions for cut – that time by the year 2000. Everyone sitting in this room knows the story of how it's been, and how development has gone within changing governments and shifting number of population. The most important is the actual measures that are capable of being implemented, which require both planning and the willingness to give priority. I think Marianne Marthinsen was into something important when she pulled out Oslo and the dense population areas with high traffic loads. It is obvious that we should tackle the areas with the highest load, first, and the areas that concern most people. It is also natural that this is a theme that should be addressed in the Government’s city announcement, which has been notified within a few months. I also know – and I share the view that many people have – that private car transport is a major problem in relation to noise, and that we have to do something both in terms of the use of private cars and not least in terms of the design of road systems. But I am not of the opinion that this is something that has been done quickly, nor am I of the opinion that we can have as a premise in this hall that the use of a private car will change dramatically in a few years. Swallow if we're offensively betting on public transport, seas if we're offensively betting on rail, and we're going to do that, I think we have to admit that this is going to be a challenge that we have to tackle in the future. So I'm going to end by saying that future societal planning is not least crucial here. One thing is the problems we've been working on today. But at least for everything in the world, we must try to avoid exacerbating those problems in the future by planning road solutions, residential areas and housing standards that are worse than they should have been. With some knowledge of what this looks like around Norway, I think there's still a little bit left there until you can say that all of the new residential areas, all of the new traffic solutions and all of the new road solutions don't get us any new problems where we have to go in and have an ambition to clean up afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e579	I think we should admit that noise as an environmental problem is too little focused. I also think we're going to establish that it's done too little to bring this problem to life or to reduce it. It is a responsibility that many previous governments have to share. The Bondevik II government launched cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health and Welfare to bring on the table an action plan to combat noise. The red-green government followed up with a clear objective in the Soria Moria statement that noise pollution should be reduced by 25 pst. in relation to the 1999 level by 2010. Against this background, it is disappointing that the outcome of the ministry's work seems to be three different options that add to the weakening of the national noise target, rather than giving us a recipe for how this could be achieved. I note that this is a problematic matter for the Government, because the announced submission of a proposal in the state budget was missing, and we must now wait until spring in connection with the Government's environmental impact report to get the Government's receipt of how we proceed in order to achieve the goals you have set. I think it has been well documented in today's debate that the extent of the noise problem is considerable, both related to those who have noise as a problem in connection with their housing, and to those who are plagued by road traffic noise. Road traffic is the second most important source of noise, and it has been documented by figures from the Statistical Central Bureau at the latest this week. Just this identification of what is the main source must be important as a starting point for the actions to be implemented. Similarly, much of the noise is related to densely built strips. The larger the denser the noise. The four largest sites are exposed to more than 36 pst. of the noise nuisances. It is also an important observation to identify the measures that need to be taken. Many today have been concerned with possible measures relating to low-noise engines, low-noise car tyres, low-noise asphalt, etc., and these include measures relating to tunnels, façade measures, research, etc. So we know a lot about what needs to be done to reduce this significant environmental problem. But one key will be to look at the limitation of car use in cities and bets on public transport, precisely because so much of the problem is related to traffic and to the large population concentrations. Against this background, as the representative Sahl said, it is strange that the Government chose to reduce the reward scheme for public transport in metropolitan areas by 43 million. kr in the year’s budget. This is an action that has proved to be very effective and has led to more public transport in major cities. One should reinforce this success, not put hookfoot on it, as the Government's arrangement is. On the other hand, it is positive that the Government has followed up many of the railway projects that the previous government started, and presented it as an unquestionably good railway budget. I hope today's debate can contribute to increasing the focus on noise problems and help increase the pressure to get the solutions that are needed. I also hope that the result will be that the government accepts its objectives and does not reduce the ambition of 25 pst. reduction. I understood the Minister for the Environment today that what she had obtained from material suggests that this Soria Moria objective was no longer realistic. That's the same thing we've seen about the ambition to clean up emissions at Kårstø by 2009. That objective also did not withstand the meeting with reality. It might be interesting to hear if the Council of State has identified other environmental objectives in the Soria Moria declaration that it is not possible to achieve, because it would be of interest to the Storting to get it done. Now Langeland was talking about high cigar leadership. He's inspired by what's happening in Cuba, so we have to understand the picture in that context. He asks whether the Stortinget will be involved in tough action. I don't know, because we haven't seen the measures yet. That's what's a little bit of a problem. And then, in many ways, it's been a special week, when the Minister for the Environment comes with a clear measure of climate change, but he doesn't get support in his own ranks. Today she is willing to give up on a clear measurement, but is told by Hallgeir H. Langeland that it is far too early to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e600	I first want to compliment the interpellant – and there is no sloping irony in it. I think you see a growing commitment from Burnde, which may start to remind you a little bit about Willoch. He is more and more responsible for what SV has been doing every year, and is about to make an alternative policy visible that we have no problems in supporting. In connection with this interpellation, I discovered, to my surprise, a magazine called Women and Clothing, which I assume the President has read in an apartment, where the whole front page today is characterized by the environmental theme: ‘LEV green special’, it is called; ‘Siri Kalvig: We get more extreme weather’. The first 40 pages are roughly filled with measures related to environmental protection. When I went to buy this magazine, it turned out to be sold out, which was most unusual for women and clothes. When I finally went into a 7-Eleven business that had it, Johan Golden spoke on Channel 24 about the Gulf Stream turning around. The last issue of the LO-Current has, in comparison, two articles on environmental protection. That's good, because LO-Current has generally never – at least to a very small extent – used to have something about environmental protection. What we see, then, is an opposition that pushes the Government against more environmental protection measures, and that is unfavorable. An interesting phenomenon that is beginning to become applicable is that you notice an involvement in the population around these questions. Of course, this applies to noise, but also to a number of other factors. I believe that the Minister for the Environment, by mentioning a concrete objective, struck a nerve in the population which, as politicians, is to be taken over, because it is felt that as politicians, we are limping on the needs of the population to care for our own future. I, who has been on the Social Committee for eight years, think about the fact that we have an environmental protection budget of about NOK 3 billion, which is much less than just the annual variations in sickness benefit payments in Norway. It's clear that it hasn't come of itself. I don't need to criticise previous governments, but it's the sum of various governments' lack of action that gives it. We have previously had an Environment Minister and Prime Minister who has been called the World Environment Minister, but she never managed to lift this field in a proper and credible way. Gro Harlem Brundtland has a far greater global status for the measures she was announcing were necessary than at home for the measures she was able to implement, and that is the reality. Based on the challenges we see facing the population today, we will experience in a few years – not from knowledge, not from understanding, but from pure populism – that the Progress Party is going to start talking about this, because they see that there are constituencies here to pick up. My tip is that in one to two years' time, the Progress Party will start to say carefully that this is man-made. In three to four years they will start to ask for action in this area. And if we don't as a government and as a big deal starts to deliver, the Progress Party can start to grow big on environmental protection, because it's clear that there's still too much distance between rhetoric and action in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e617	This debate has evolved into a general debate on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, and it shows, of course, the commitment on environmental issues just these days. I agree with Mr Ballo that it is very positive, and it also provides relief to the Government and the Minister for the Environment when it comes to designing an offensive environmental policy, including in the field of noise, in the future. Then I have to tell the representative of Langeland that with my heart in my hand, I don't think I have anything to be ashamed of when it comes to the efforts of the Bondevik II government in the field of the environment. We have good results to point to – and I think that was also the general assessment when that government set up. We submitted, inter alia: important climate policy compromise with SV, where the representative Langeland acted very constructively at that time. And I really hope that the representative of Langeland can say the same in 2009, that he has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to the environmental effort of the Stoltenberg II government. It will now be decided, in the coming years, whether the Minister for the Environment will be able to make an impact, among other things. for its ambitious climate objective, or if the Prime Minister succeeds in ‘reducing’ the Minister for the Environment in this area and pursuing a differentiated objective where it is expected that Norway will not take its commitment in line with what we should do. It is clear that it is easy to say today that the Right should support the actions that come up in the field of noise, especially when we have not seen them. But at least we will go far ahead to be a propellant and play constructively in implementing the noise measures that are necessary, because this is one of the few remaining really major environmental problems we have in Norway, which is therefore national and not global. There are now high expectations of the measures taken by the Council of State in its communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. At least we don't have to just focus on noise at the source, which I heard hints about. Noise shields, façades and tunnels must continue. In addition, the old screens are about to fall and lose effect. It is also paradoxical that the allocations to noise screens were higher 10–15 years ago than they are today. Often the weakest and least resource-intensive in society are hit most by noise. I will end with a question to the Minister for the Environment, based on what Langeland said. Langeland said that the government is standing by the noise target, that noise pollution should be reduced by 25 pst. by 2010. Does the Government stand by this noise target? That's a simple question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e630	Let me start by saying that the term "repentant sins" is completely acceptable in my circles, and in very many of my previous jobs, I have met many of them. Therefore I will so absolutely accept the wish that I feel lies under Børge Brende's commitment today, a desire to strengthen the work against noise. I want to underline something that I feel there is a broad consensus about in the hall, that both government and big business want to take the noise that people are subjected to, seriously, and that we want to strengthen the work against noise. In the action plan that we are now preparing, we are making the effort concrete. And as mentioned here, road traffic is the dominant source of noise pollution in Norway, so it stands for 80 pst. of the total noise nuisances. Low-noise road tyres and low-noise car tyres are the current measures we are looking at. The noise-retardant road surfaces are per person. currently not fully developed for use under Norwegian conditions. There is also considerable uncertainty about the noise characteristics of various types of car deck on Norwegian roads. The next few years, therefore, research and development work is very important in order to ensure the basis for a long-term investment in this field. As stated above, the Government intends to explain in detail both the evaluation of the noise target and the action plan against noise in a growing communication on the government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. There we will also come back to what was Børge Brende's concern related to the noise target. So when we take an evaluation of the noise target, we will come back to it in the Communication on the Government's Environmental Protection Policy and the State of the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e643	So the debate is on case No. 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-02.ana.ud677e654	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
