ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e49	The representatives of Borghild Tenden, Thomas Breen, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Alf Ivar Samuelsen, Heikki Holmås, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Hans Olav Syversen and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Hanne Dyveke Sweets, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e85	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Anders Anundsen, Solvency Horne and Kenneth Svendsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Anders Anundsen, Solvency Horne and Kenneth Svendsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e97	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e100	It is a pleasure to be able to present representative proposals from the representatives of Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt and myself on changing the terms and conditions of study funding schemes to eliminate the distinction between away and resident students, as well as increasing the income and wealth limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e105	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e132	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and five lines of response after submissions by members of the Government — within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e141	It is gratifying to note that, through this attitude, there is broad political agreement to underline the need for a good senior policy and the importance of keeping seniors in the labour market as far as possible. However, as in so many areas of society, it is easier to agree on the objectives than on the instruments. The need for labour in society today is very great. As a result, there have rarely been as good opportunities to succeed in the inclusion of older workers in the labour market as it is now. I therefore had great expectations for the Government's announcement of senior policy. I was unfortunately disappointed. That being said, the current big message is good in describing the reality and sketching out the challenges we face in the field of senior policy. However, in the case of proposals for concrete actions and binding signals on which policy changes the Government might be inclined to accept, the roll-out message is very thin. There's hardly a single point of view. My objective, therefore, as the case-rapporteur, has been to help the Government in the further work by being clear on where the Government can count on the opposition's support when or if the Government dares to conclude on the difficult areas. It is a unanimous committee which establishes the following starting point for senior policy: senior employment measures should have the basic objective of increasing the average retirement age. An active and good senior policy must be designed to build up under the creation of value in society. Society depends on the fact that the labour force is not one-sidedly grouped age groups, because older workers represent stability, competence and experience. For my own part, I would like to add: it must be the individual's and its competences, abilities and opportunities that limit professional participation, and not how old one is. In the Opinion, the Committee welcomed the fact that the Government of Great Britain stated that ‘Discrimination of workers by reason of age is illegitimate and illegal in relation to the labour law’. If this is to become something more than a passive objective without real content, concrete policies need to be changed in a number of areas. First, welfare and pension policies need to be set up in such a way that they actively stimulate individuals to take up longer employment. Secondly, the different incentive systems of an economic nature need to be set up in such a way that it is worthwhile for each employer to take care of his older employees. Senior research shows that older workers are often more effective than their younger colleagues. Where younger workers work faster or serve more than the seniors, the seniors compensate for better contact with people, more structured work and the reliability of the workforce. A diversity in the workplace where seniors are also included in the enterprise will benefit individuals, the working environment, the employer and society. I also believe that most of the business community has gradually understood this. However, in large parts of the public sector, there is a need to rely on this. It is a responsibility for any employer, both in the private and public sectors, to facilitate the situation for older workers so that as far as possible they will be able to work as far as possible. Having a job to go to, feeling that a person gets to use himself and his competence as well as being part of a professional and social community has a significant self-esteem that goes far beyond the benefits for the individual employee. This is also valuable from a wider public health perspective, by the fact that work generally has a health promotion effect and prevents solitude. Although there are positive developments, it still seems to be too easy to push older workers out of the labour market by transitions, downsizings and mergers. Recently, we have seen this in connection with the merger between Statoil and Norsk Hydro's oil and gas division. Here all employees over 58 years are offered very lucrative final packages for a total cost of NOK 3.4 billion. It is a unanimous committee that states that this is contrary to the intentions of the contract of an inclusive working life and that there is also a breach of the main intention of the recently concluded pension agreement. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left find it critical that in a company in which the State itself holds the majority of its shares, it is brought up to a senior policy that violates a policy of government and expansion. I have to add that I am a little surprised that the government parties were not also involved in the last part of this criticism. It is at local level that senior policy needs to find its concrete content. Here, an active and targeted senior policy can be introduced, with a menu of concrete measures that can be applied to older workers who need a slightly easier everyday life to be able to work longer. Examples of such concrete measures may include shorter working days during periods, more leisure time, flexible working time, intake of extra help, fewer evening, night or weekend shifts, smaller cleaning areas, responsibility for a smaller number of users and mentoring tasks for younger employees. It is worrying that in the public sector there is a particularly large number of people in pre-employment who lose contractual pensions. Today, many municipalities share the costs of early retirement through collective pension funds such as KLP. As a result, costs are balanced between municipalities with a high proportion of early retirement and municipalities with a low proportion of early retirement. This helps to ensure that the costs of early retirement for each unit do not arise, so that there is no economic incentive for managers to keep seniors in work rather than to leave them with early retirement. An overall opposition therefore promotes the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to make the costs of early retirement in the public sector visible in the activity budget of each public entity.’;» So a few words about special age limits: Special age limits as a system are based on the basically unsustainable notion that groups of workers as a whole cannot continue to work beyond a given age. Such a system does not take into account large individual variations in physical and mental health. Nor does the system take into account the fact that the requirements for the service, the content of the job and the nature of the work can change significantly over time. In the future, it has to be the nature and the risk of work, not a particular age, which determines the need for early retirement. That's right, that's how professions are different, but that's why we humans are too. During my work as rapporteur of the case, I went to the Ministry of Renewal's website and took a copy of the note Age Limits in the state. There came out nothing less than 32 densely written pages with different special age limits. First, some facts about this arrangement. Three out of ten men in the state go on special age limits. An increasing number of seniors in the country view it as a common practice to retire at the age of 62, and the main weight of retirement in the country is between 55 and 65 years old. Only three out of ten workers were still active in the country after 62 years of age. According to Fafo, the average retirement age in the police and county seats was 54.7 years in 2000. When we stick to these types of schemes, hardly any wonder that we lack labour in many areas. Through special age limits and the AFP scheme, a new standard for take-off has emerged. An overall committee is very concerned about this development. Failure to reverse these developments will undermine both the main objective of the concluded pension agreement and the well-being of the future. The government announces that it will have a review of the different special age limits in the country. A unanimous committee expresses great expectations for this review. If the Government here proves that it has political power and courage, the Government must feel confident that it has the full support of the opposition. It is worth noting that many of those who leave their position at the acquired special age limit continue to work to about the same extent as before, but in other positions. One study showed that dried 50 pst. of the police and defence pensioners with a special age limit of 60 years were in work. This shows that many workers who have left at a special age are still able to work. The provisions on special age limits are regulated by law as well as by negotiated agreements. Changes to the provisions on special age limits will therefore be a responsibility of both the legislative authority and the social partners. It is important to organise the working life so that those who can and will work longer are able to do so. At the same time, it is important to recognise the need to maintain older workers in order to ensure value creation in society. However, in the service of the good case, we must be careful to introduce a number of different centrally adopted schemes, which will apply to all over a certain age, because such schemes can easily lead to older workers becoming too expensive. The outcome of such a policy will in turn only lead to the continuation of the exclusion of older workers. I would like to mention the suggestions made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e186	The representative Martin Engeset has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e191	The senior education message was presented at the same time as we received the pension message and the welfare message. I am a little surprised that the representative Engeset has not taken on board that it is also clear from the senior report that many of the concrete measures that will enable older people to be longer in working life are included in the pension message and welfare message that we have addressed and that there has been a great deal of support in the Stortinget. But that wasn't necessarily what I was going to ask, because it probably knows anxiety. What I want to ask about this concerns measures to make employees aged 67-70 more at work. Right wants to remove all constraints here, which include: As a result, if you are 67 years old and want both a pension and a full salary, you will get it without any restrictions. This will cost approx. 500 million. kr. I agree with Engeset and Right that action is important. But is it not possible to imagine that measures can be identified that can contribute in the same direction — and not all the 500 million spent on this one?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e200	First of all, I am surprised that that question is being asked, because I understood it so that the representative Sundsbø and the red-green agree that there is reason to end the pension curtailment scheme for them between 67 and 70 years, but that the disagreement has gone so far at the time. We believe that it is necessary to do this now, while the red-greens argue that this needs to be investigated in more detail and cannot be carried out until 2010. In addition to this individual measure, which will, of course, have an impact on the group between 67 and 70 years of age, there is reason to introduce a number of measures that do not necessarily cost money but could nevertheless have an effect on all those who go long before they reach 67 years of age. So here it's not about either – or, but about both – and.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e207	It might be tempting to ask the Right why they did not propose such a change when they set sail in government, or perhaps challenge the Right on what good senior measures they promoted when they were in government. But I'll leave it. I want to challenge the representative Engeset whether he does not believe that the most important measures for people to actually be able to do more work must be put in place before they are 67 years old. I agree that it is desirable to remove this shortening of the salary income after age 67, but it is not the place where the exclusion from the labour market takes place. Measures that will really be effective both for individuals and for society, you actually have to put in at a much earlier date. It will also be a great responsibility for employers to ensure that employees are actually seen and given opportunities to develop, as Engeset says. Isn't that a much more important approach than just focusing on those who are over 67?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e214	Here it is not just about focusing on those who are over 67 years old – I feel that it is basically the representatives Sundsbø and Andersen who do. This is one point of many in the position, and I think it appeared relatively clearly from my post, if Andersen's representative heard well after, that there is a much bigger problem associated with those who go off long before they turn 67, and also those who go off long before they turn 60. The answer to this is a work life that includes all, where older workers are taken into account and the work tasks are facilitated so that it is possible to stay longer in work. That's what's most important to us. So this is an important point in addition to the 67-70 year group, which should and can be implemented as soon as possible and not postponed indefinitely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e221	I want to follow up what Andersen asked for in his reply, namely why the Right did not promote these proposals when they themselves were in government, and what concrete proposals the Right promoted when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e226	It is true that, over some years now, changes in the pension system were to be implemented from the time when a new pension reform was actually addressed and adopted. Now we've done that. In that picture, we see no reason to wait until 2010 to cancel the curtailment scheme for the group between 67 and 70 years. In addition, we have the fact that there is currently an urgent need for more labour. This problem has increased in recent years, and this is why it is urgent to implement it. It won't be one day too soon. I would like to see it done before, but now we have the opportunity. I regret to say that the red-greens are voting this down.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e231	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e235	We live longer and have healthier older than ever. At the same time, the time we're in work is a shorter part of our life than ever. Some would argue that this is an expression of the positive development of the welfare society, others – and the Center Party with them – would also feel that there is a wrong way to manage human resources and competences. In a society where labour shortages are a major challenge, both in order to increase value creation and in order to provide the welfare services that society wants to provide to the population, it is natural that the main focus of senior policy is focused on how to increase the retirement age from work. But this issue is also about how to give our seniors equal opportunities for participation in social and work life. We achieve that by making budget and law decisions that are perceived to be positive as authorities. So social life and working life must follow up by facilitating the use of seniors' resources on premises that stimulate professional participation. So the prerequisite for succeeding in getting more people to work is, above all, that we have a working life that values the age range in the workforce, which emphasizes the value of many years of competence and experience, and that does not promote unilateral renewal. Today's debate will largely focus on our field of work as politicians: how legislation and policy-making can facilitate the strengthening of the working line. Through tripartite cooperation through the agreement on inclusive working life, through the Centers for Senior Policy, in cooperation with the organisation and not least as a public employer, we have great opportunities to help the seniors make greater use of their resources. The importance of the IA Agreement is clear from the information provided in the senior notice. Forty pst. concrete senior policy actions have been developed by IA companies, this proportion is only 9 pst. for enterprises not included in the contract. The IA parties proposed to remove the reduced employer’s fee scheme for workers over 62 years of age. The Stortinget has joined in. As long as one from the employer agrees that the 800 million. I do not see any reason to accede to the desire of the Progress Party to put this scheme back in place. It's probably more important to look at other incentives. At the latest during the Committee's visit to Arendal last week, we met local authorities who found other tools that worked in the right direction in order to get workers to stand longer – Arendal and Kristiansand are two cubits in the same piece in that context. In Arendal, as in a number of other municipalities and counties, they have offered workers who will continue after the age of 62, increased vacation or reduced working time with full pay. However, providing seniors with follow-up training in line with other staff and conducting milestone talks with a focus on senior careers are measures that have been tested and show results. Money and leisure are important, but being seen and valued as an employee is as important as it turns out. In fact, working life has a major challenge in proving that it is working here. The merger between Statoil and Norsk Hydro, already mentioned by the representative Engeset, is a major issue to which many views can be linked. The entire Labour and Social Committee agrees that the way in which the new company wishes to implement its redundancy measures is critical. Limiting the offer of lucrative final packages to employees over 58 years of age is considered to be contrary to both the intentions of the IA Agreement and to the main intentions of the recently concluded pension agreement, the main objective of which is to create an economically sustainable pension system by increasing the number of jobs. Age-determined final packages are age discrimination and it is natural that the Government, as one of the IA Contracting Parties, contributes to the introduction of zero tolerance to this type of agreement in the future. The government in its senior report notes that it estimates to increase the current age limit in the Working Environment Act from 70 to 72 years of age. The Progress Party proposes to remove all legal age limits for participation in employment. The right and left want to assess whether there is a basis for a specific age limit in the law at all. At the centre of the party we have noticed that both the employee and the employer sides feel it is right to maintain an age limit in order to ensure that the employee's career can be completed in a dignified way. But it is right to assess an increase, and we are witnessing a continuation of the work the Government is signalling in the message that it will now take on board. We have laid the foundations for the future provision of a full or partial old-age pension from the age of 62 and for the combination of old-age pension and labour income without shortening the pension. The AFP agreement faces a review by the social partners and presupposes the introduction of the new pension system that removes the restrictions on combining pensions and work from 2010. The proposal of the representative of the Party that all over 67 years of age be paid full pension regardless of their income from work is not supported by the majority of the Committee. After all, it is not right for the representative of Engeset to say that only the measures on pension credits that we have now adopted will be implemented from 2010, from 2008, because there is a completely different system underpinning the retirement of the two systems. That's why it's not so easy to do this as to say that it's just to advance something that we've decided to apply from 2010, because it needs to take a series of steps to get it in place. Increases in the cost of social security through increased pension payments by implementing the proposal are estimated at 500 million. NOK or to SEK 335 million. kr in net loss of income when one also takes into account the increased tax revenue that will be paid. The majority share the Government’s view that the matter needs to be further investigated in order to identify the financial consequences and consequences of amending the pension legislation in relation to current schemes, and emphasises that this work should be given high priority. On the part of the Centre Party, we stress that we should not have to wait three years and until a new pension scheme comes into place, before promoting measures to improve the conditions for combining pensions and work. We need to start now. We also need to look at what we're going to do in the next three years, because we need the workforce, and we need to give the seniors the handshake that better arrangements will bring. A senior policy that results in older people being perceived as a positive resource for the labour market is expressed as a goal of the Government in the senior notification. It's important that the government remove obstacles in order to achieve this as soon as possible, i.e. that you don't just say that this is something you should wait for for for three years. On the part of the Centre Party, we would like to stress that we do not necessarily have to remove all the curtailment rules for old-age pensioners who have income from work, in order to achieve that much more people choose to combine work and retirement, or to postpone retirement. The current ceiling of 2G may be extended, the reduction in age pension by 40 pst. revenue above 2 G may be modified, as previously done. One can also choose to adjust the provision that the abbreviation falls for all over 70 years, so that it is introduced from an earlier age. So there are different ways to meet this challenge. On the part of the Central Party, we place great emphasis on the fact that the Government is already sitting down and reviewing this and coming back to the Stortinget with proposals to adjust the arrangements we have by 2010, and that we are not necessarily going to do so by removing everything, as the Progress Party and the Right here would suggest. I do not want to give concrete advice here and now on what action to take, but the important thing is to start work on finding concrete measures that show that we are reaching out. The first opportunity to come back to this is already in the budget for the autumn, and I hope something will come back then.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e264	Today, the upper age limit is 70 years, which excludes workers above this limit and who also want to change the Senior Policy Centres. Government lots allow for this limit to be increased from 70 to 72 years. The Progress Party has proposed to lift the ceiling and that it should be the health of individual workers, based on individual assessments which, for all others in society, will decide whether or not to be able to continue in the labour market. In a comment from the Committee, The Labour Party that ‘discrimination between workers due to age is illegitimate and illegal in relation to the employment environment law’. Then my question is, isn't there equal age discrimination if the limit of moving people out of work is 70 or 72? Should not people over 72 years of age, who have health to continue, be able to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e275	The quote that was referred to is not just the Workers' Party. It's also the Center Party and SVs, and I'm behind it. I also agree with the assessments made in the communication from the preparatory and the investigations and the hearings we received from both employees and employers that it is right to have an upper age limit, on the grounds that it can be perceived as unworthy to have an individual discussion about whether or not one is suitable for working life, or not when one is 73, 74 or 75 years old. That is why I support what the Government has said. We do not want this to happen only at an individual level, and we do so by referring to unique advice from both the employee and employer sides. I think we should listen to that, because they might be closer to the problem than we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e282	I have two questions for the representative Sundsbø. First, in the setting, a unanimous committee, i.e. also the government parties, says: ‘The Committee has great expectations of the forthcoming review of the special age limits.’ I could imagine that Sundsbø, on behalf of the red-greens here in the hall, made a little account of what expectations he has of his own Council of State and of his own government in relation to the changes in the system of special age limits. The next question is about the scheme that relates to the 85-year rule. Cops with desk work have an ordinary retirement age of 67 years, 70 minus three years. We've seen a lot of examples of people with this kind of job just before they turn 57, who have a special age limit of 60 minus three years, i.e. 57 years. And squats, in a few weeks, you can suddenly get an ordinary leave of 57 years, while you've been working your whole working life in a position that meant you're about to leave at 67 years. So you win ten years. Does the representative Sundsbø think this is a good arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e298	When we want to review the special age limits, it is because very many are covered by them, and there may be reason to ask questions about whether it is natural to maintain so many special age limits for such a broad group of workers. At the same time, I'll say that when we chose to withdraw from the comment that among other things. Right-hand tape, attached to the police in particular, is because you don't want to stigmatize a group either. I think it might also be a little bit on the side to suggest that an entire profession actually abuses the rules that we currently have for special age limits. That's what it actually says, and that Engeset referred to. There is reason to go through special age limits, there is reason to withdraw special age limits that are not important in relation to workers having a special physical challenge. But there is no reason to say that this is being abused in general by all those who are covered by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e303	In the senior report, the Government announces that it will investigate raising the retirement age from 70 to 72 years. In the Christian People's Party, we think it is positive to take seriously that the seniors have an ever better health, and therefore they can and should contribute to society longer than before. In the view of the Christian People's Party, raising the age limit, for example, is a natural consequence of a likely future increase in retirement age. in order to be able to be chosen to be a femur equivalent. We made a proposal on what the government parties voted against. They would stick to a 70-year-old age limit in order to be able to choose to be a femur. Does the representative Sundsbø believe that there is a logical link between this position and the intentions of the senior report on a future raising of retirement age to 72 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e308	With regard to the age limit for dentures, I have to admit that I am reluctant to go into both the argument and the background to the position we have taken. When it comes to raising the age limit from 70 to 72 years, I just want to stress – and here I assume we agree – that it is not a matter of people now going to work until they are 72 years old. A picture has been drawn that there is no retirement age of 67 years anymore – now it has to be raised to 72 years. These are the rules of the Working Environment Act we are talking about, and how long you have the right to work if you want to. Then the majority, the government parties together with the Christian People's Party, seem to think it is timely to have it investigated by the Government, and I welcome the assessments to be made in cooperation with the social partners. I hope we get it, but I think it's actually right to have some kind of age limit. Then you can also work on individual agreements between the employer and the individual. But it has something to do with that one as a group is going to have a right, and then the rest is going to be individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e315	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e318	It is an important message that is being addressed today, and I would therefore like to start by thanking the Center for Senior Policy and the Senior Case for their excellent work to give the seniors the same rights and opportunities as everyone else. It should be the most obvious of all that they did, but unfortunately, there is a lot of age discrimination around society – ranging from legislation and regulations through pension schemes that exclude older people from working life to attitudes of employers and public agencies. Many of these positions can be taken into account in this room, both by changing age-discriminatory laws and regulations and by creating attitudes among those with public employment responsibilities, in such a way that more older people are left in the labour market as far as possible. Unfortunately, it is often the private business that sees the opportunities, and the public sector that is lagging behind, as we have seen with regard to the employment of disabled people, where the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which was to lead as a good example, is the zinc and the private sector ahead. It is therefore particularly important that we take this seriously in this room and follow up the state apparatus so that older people are not discriminated against. This is precisely why the Progress Party has been a driver of awareness-raising campaigns, and in particular campaigns run by organisations such as the Center for Senior Policy and the Senior Case. It may be difficult to identify the appropriate measures to avoid discrimination against the elderly and to identify measures that are effective in facilitating older people to stay longer in work or to obtain employment when they have passed 60 years. The Progress Party has therefore submitted several proposals, including: is proposed to return to a lower employer’s fee scheme for the recruitment of persons over 62 years of age, a scheme for the Government removed from the budget of the year. The promotion party is sure that such a scheme that gives premium to employers who employ seniors is a rigorous scheme. Unfortunately, this scheme has been far too small. The Progress Party will also implement a system of wage subsidies for enterprises employing workers over 62 years of age who have been long-term unemployed. We think such a system would be accurate and could help this group get back to work. The AFP scheme as it operates today is an early retirement scheme that applies only to parts of the work force. At the same time, it is a scheme that all taxpayers are involved in financing. The Progress Party considers this to be unfair. The AFP scheme was originally intended for industrial workers who were at an early age and had a need to stop before reaching retirement age. The party of progress is a member of an AFP scheme that allows the workers in society to leave the labour market in a dignified way, but it should apply to all the workers, whether they are organised or not. Such a scheme must be flexible and adjusted in an en route manner. New techniques mean that professions that used to be so-called heavy professions do not need to be so today. What is important for the Progress Party is that these workers should have the possibility of a decent retirement rather than a disability benefit, while the scheme should apply to all heavy professions, regardless of their association with an organisation or not. The Progress Party believes that this is a basis for looking at the different specific age limits. Several of these limits help to push workers out of work long before they have reached the age of 60. While it may be that some professions may have burdens justifying early retirement, this should be much more individualised. Therefore, the Progress Party has proposed that the professions with a special age limit should be examined under a new AFP scheme. The majority of this room has decided that, when the pension reform is to be introduced, the curtailment of the pension that currently exists for them between 67 and 70 years of age should also be abolished. This has been proposed by the Progress Party on several occasions, which is also being done today. Since everyone seems to agree on this, I would like to have an answer as to why the government parties will not agree to remove this unfair arrangement immediately, so that today's pensioners are not left out of work. Let me establish that the elderly are and become a great resource with a lot of experience and stability. This is something society needs to take care of by allowing older people to participate in the labour market as far as possible. By voting in favour of today's proposals of the Progress Party, this will be possible in a much better way. I will take up the suggestions we are alone about or have made with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e337	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e343	The Progress Party wants to remove all obstacles in order to be able to work between 67 and 70 years of age. You have to be able to take out a full pension and have a full salary. There shall be no restrictions. That means that many people will be able to get 160 pst. they are 67 years old until they are 70 years old. This is to be covered by the State budget, first and foremost, by increasing the payment from popular security. It's not this coming in 2010. Then comes a system that is adapted that we have such a situation. The Progress Party believes that it is impossible to imagine what we are now asking the ministry to do: to go through arrangements that make this easier, to make it possible, but not necessarily to have this right to 160–170 pst. wages and salaries from 67 to 70 years of age, that there may be other measures that may work in the same direction but do not have the large outcomes and that may be as good as transitional arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e350	I could have answered a clear no. It's like this in many other countries. The Labour and Social Committee visited New Zealand, where we saw that they have the same system as we are proposing today. In fact, workers in this age group have worked a long life. They've earned their rights, and then they're 67 years old. Then they can choose, in our view, whether they want to withdraw these rights in the form of pensions, and whether they want to continue working at the same time. Working further will provide greater well-being for all of us in society, it will provide greater well-being for those who want to work further, and we will have increased value creation in society with their contribution. So this is a win-win situation. I have to say that the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance are very little dynamic. They don't take into account the value that the seniors will give back to society. I think it's a plus bill for the whole community if we get them to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e355	I have to ask the Progress Party whether they are not aware that when changes were made to the employer's fee for them over 62 years, it was after an agreement between the social partners and the state, where the parties agreed that this instrument did not necessarily have the effect they wanted, and they chose to dispose of the money in a different way. Does the Progress Party believe that the IA agreement should be broken at this point? In such a case, can the party provide documentation to show that this money has actually led to the desired effect? It's a pretty big sum that's being used for this. That money is now being spent on health care instead. There is a need to examine the impact of all the schemes you set up. They may be very well meant, but it is not certain that they work for it. So I'm very excited about whether the Progress Party, unlike both the Government and the social partners, can prove that that arrangement has actually had an effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e362	Firstly, it is regrettable that we have to give extraordinary appropriations to the state budget to enable the health service to do the task that they would initially do without these grants. Then we agree that the experience with the scheme has not been the very best. But as I said in my post, there has been no marketing of this. It is clear that when employers do not know that they can earn profits by employing seniors, by getting a lower employer’s fee, they will not, of course, do so either. I don't think it's going to be seen as a breach of the IA agreement that we go in and give a lower employer's fee while we spend more money on health, so that those who are in line for treatment are treated quickly and come back to work quickly, because that's what the goal is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e369	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e372	First I want to join in what the representative Sundsbø said in his post. On the SV side, it is important to stress that when we want more people to be in the labour market, we think that it is primarily about working conditions if it is possible or not. The rapporteur was quite critical of the lack of action by the Government. I would like to remind you that, for example: The Working Environment Act is a real protection law, which this Government has ensured and on which it was in the process of making changes that were not positive is a very important measure. Action against social dumping, with which this Government is actively working, is important. Obviously, if there is social dumping in the world of work, it will make it even more difficult for seniors to hang out with. A new pension scheme has been mentioned. St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007, a number of actions and a number of opportunities for the new labour and welfare management to assist people who need to get out of work, both with action and with tools. I also need to mention one of the hard-working professions where people have quit early, either get rid of the disability early or get rid of the AFP early, which is rarely mentioned when talking about the hard-working, namely the women in the public sector. One of the most important things for those who work in the care sector is that there are enough people at work, so they don't get worn out. It is one of the important reasons why this government has strongly strengthened the local economy, so that it is possible to hire enough people so that you do not wear yourself out at work and thus will not be able to work long hours. I went to the website of Hedmark County; they are going to deal with senior policy in June. They have the same measures that have been mentioned by several municipalities and companies, but I think that some of what they write is important to note. It says: ‘This work’ — i.e. working on a better senior policy — ‘must aim to really facilitate/facilitate the working situation of the seniors in such a way that they are able to extend their careers from 62 years of age’. That, I believe, is an important approach that I sometimes see as lacking in the debate, because it sounds as if the main obstacle to people's standing at work is some state rules on age. I think we should go through these age limits. I think some of them definitely can be adjusted. But that's not what's the big problem that makes people feel that they don't have the power to stand in the workplace for a long time. It is also stated in this case paper that Hedmark County Council will deal with in June: ‘Dissipation as a consequence of, inter alia: The feeling of getting short, of feeling outcast and most of all not being ‘saw’ makes employees either choose to get rid of the AFP, or they get sick and later perhaps unwell.’ I think one of the most important things about this whole matter we are dealing with today is the attitudes that have been in relation to seniors for several years. It's been a long time since when it's been advertised by people, you have to be top educated, you have to be under 30 years, you have to have a lot of experience, and you have to be relatively hip and in, at all, belong to the younger generation. I feel that these attitudes are about to turn around. In fact, economic trends are such that employers now see that they need the seniors, but I also feel that the attitudes towards this monoculture, the cultivation of youth as the only thing in the world of work, are turning around. And that's wise, because, as researcher at NOVA Per Erik Solheim says, we probably don't get dumber with the years. It is fully possible to fill in with knowledge and competence even when you are over 50 years of age and over 60 years of age, but it is very important that the employer then addresses this before the problems arise. I think perhaps one of the most important things about the senior policy to be pursued in the various businesses is to address this before the problem arises. So from the age of 45 to 50, you have to have a plan for updating your skills and knowledge. It is necessary to have a review of how to plan the future operation of the business, in order to ensure the competence of the employees you have. It is probably a far more serious problem for the individual and for the sustainability of the whole system that people are being pushed out early, than the abbreviation between 67 and 70 years, sail if SV also wants to get it reduced and preferably removed. But I agree with what the representative Sundsbø said about it, that it is possible to imagine several ways to do it. The principle of combining work and pensions, as the new pension scheme adds, is agreed by SV. There are a lot of good tools that can work well for those who are at work, and I believe that all serious employers will strongly consider them. We also see this being done, both in the public sector and not least in the private sector, for example. The provision of some more leisure time is among the measures that are greatly appreciated by very many older people. I would also like to remind you that there has been a six-hour trial in the state, especially in relation to seniors. It's a very interesting attempt to follow, because seniors probably have a desire for something more leisure time, and that it's perceived as something that makes it possible to stand longer in the workplace. I also want to support those who have been up here and said that the type of age discrimination that was in the final package agreement between Hydro and Statoil, namely that a clear message was given that in this company there is no future over 58 years, we cannot accept. That's why we wanted the Government to ensure that this kind of leadership doesn't repeat itself. Those who may find it most difficult for older workers are, after all, not those who are at work, but those who are so unhappy that they lose their jobs when they are between 55 and 60 years old. I've met a lot of them. It is difficult to get a job again, because employers in many ways prefer younger workers, but also a little because, as the case-leader was involved, very good arrangements for that group can actually work a little against their purpose – if you are to hire a person who might need more free or higher pay, or if you are at risk of leaving quite quickly. It is a paradox that we have to take with us when we look at the measures we have in senior policy, so that what we want to contribute in a positive way does not work negatively for them. Finally, I would like to say that the Committee has been in contact with a number of people in this age group who have used up their rights in the day-to-day payment system and have gradually changed to what is now called waiting compensation in NAV, and many of them are in a difficult situation. I have heard that someone has suggested that you want to look at the waiting compensation scheme and perhaps remove it. I'd like to warn you on the SV's side, most strongly against it. The alternative to a waiting benefit for this age group is social assistance. We all know the rules of social assistance. That means you have to dispose of what you own, and other things you've acquired, maybe through a long work life. That means when you get to 67, you have to meet the retirement age without real estate and a place to live that you own. That is why I think it is incredibly important that NAV now starts a good job of helping people in that age group back in their working life. However, it is equally important that we have income insurance schemes for the group that do not have the right to withdraw the AFP, so that they do not end up in a situation where they meet the retirement age after having had to dispose of everything they have saved before in their life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e420	The representative, Andersen, spent a lot of his time on the AFP system. As the representative knows, the AFP scheme was originally designed to enable the workers to have a decent leave from work. Who is more weary, today has changed. Many of those who are more laboured can be shop clerks, warehouse workers, etc., etc. Many of these do not come under the AFP scheme. The AFP scheme is partly financed by taxpayers, but only 60 pst. the taxpayers may participate in the scheme. Then my question is: how can SV defend that the workers who are not organized, but are involved in paying the scheme, do not have any kind of right to the AFP scheme? Shouldn't this be a system that applies to all the laborers of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e429	SV and I want to work for more people to be covered by this agreement, because this is an agreement between the social partners. We want more people to be organized and get an opportunity for the AFP. Then I'll register the debate on the losers and who it is. I think it's very hard to figure out. That's exactly why the AFP became the way it was – it was impossible to find out who it really was that was the struggling, for example. by stamping one profession before another. At that time, the problem of disability was quickly solved, namely a nine-time health test. It takes a long time, and you wanted to have an alternative to that system. SV will defend the AFP scheme. We also want more people to be able to conclude agreements so that they are covered by the AFP scheme. It is quite right that in parts of the world of work that are not organised and have this agreement, there are also those who absolutely need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e438	After a pretty good article from the representative Karin Andersen, there is a lot to be taken into account. I'm going to start with the little visit she had to this with the 6-hour day. I have understood that over some years SV has been the only party here on Stortinget who has actively wanted a 6-hour day for everyone, with full compensation. After the article now I understand that the ambitions are significantly reduced. Now we're talking about an experimental scheme just for the elderly. But I think I've perceived it so that SV in the long term wants it to be a 6-hour day for as much as possible, with full pay compensation. Given that a 6-hour day of full pay compensation will only apply to the elderly, will this not mean that such a scheme will stigmatise older workers, that labour becomes too expensive and that the exclusion of older workers will increase in strength?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e448	The representative Engeset is quite right that the 6-hour day is a matter that SV has fought for too long. But I was very surprised that the representative Engeset, who has just stood on the pulpit and spoke warmly for one of the measures that many companies and public organisations have very well agreed to, namely to introduce the 6-hour day for older workers, now suddenly it seems stigmatizing. Of course it isn't. This is one of the measures implemented by several enterprises, for which they have been well accepted, and which actually means that older workers are longer in the labour market. It's hard to understand that this should be very positive as long as the Right talks about it, but very negative when the SV talks about it. It's true that what we're doing now is we're doing these tests. The goal is to see if this works positive. In this case, it is absolutely in the SV's interest that this type of working time arrangements should also be assessed for other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e455	Special age limits and contractual pension schemes have resulted in the main weight of national retirement between 55 and 65 years of age. For example, only three out of ten were in the workforce. still active in the country after 62 years of age. The Christian People's Party believes that the challenge of early retirement from work needs to be met with different measures to motivate individuals to take longer professional activity. There is a cross-political consensus that in order to ensure that more people are in work, something must also be done with the AFP scheme and with age limits. How does the representative Karin Andersen feel that the contractual pension scheme needs to be modified to ensure that it supports the aims of the pension reform to increase the number of people in work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e464	This is a topic that we have just addressed in the context of the retirement position. There, this matter is to be further worked on after the leaders who have been included in the Government’s big news. But I want to remind you again that this is actually an agreement between the social partners, and that it should therefore be on that table. It also remains to be seen how to reach an agreement on how to continue this scheme. On the SV side, I want to say that we believe that the AFP is a very important scheme, that it is necessary, and that it has also been good because it has enabled people to get rid of pensions when they have been exhausted. So I might react a little bit to it being said very negatively constantly. In addition to that, the representative mentions the special age limits, and we have said that we need to go through them. I think some of them can change, but that's consideration that's taken into account when you set these age limits, which I don't think you can just ignore with a pen stroke.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e471	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e474	“Senior” is an honorary designation. The seniors have experience, they have knowledge, they're patient. They have a positive impact on the working environment, and what had to be lacking in efficiency is taken back through structured and targeted work. There is also evidence that seniors who are being trained rarely refuse new knowledge or transitions. Nevertheless, an opinion poll from the MMI shows that half of employers in this country will not even consider hiring a jobseeker who has less than 10 years left of his professional career. It's serious! We also know that older workers often experience pressure from businesses. Early retirement, disability benefit and waiting pay are actively used to get rid of the oldest. The last thing about such a raw personnel policy is Statoil and Hydro. In these companies, the state is a major shareholder, yet the DKK 3.4 billion is going to be paid to get rid of employees over 58 years. Discrimination against older people in the workplace is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Norway needs more people working. Fresh figures from the NHO show that as far back as this year as 9000 workers are absent only in industry. We know that the need for labour will increase in the future, not least in terms of health and care, and at the same time we know that the labour demand cannot be met without more jobs. The question is, how are we going to do this? Fortunately, we see positive signs that companies that need more employees are recruiting seniors. We also see the development of our own staff policy for seniors in many workplaces. Provision of a reduced position, more leave, less burdensome jobs or permission to train during working hours may make further work more attractive than, for example: AFP. But there are still too many people over the age of 50 who are not given the opportunity to contribute their knowledge and insight into the world of work. It's bad for the individual, and it's wasted on society's resources. Discrimination against older workers is prohibited. Yet it happens, unfortunately. Employers' obligations to organise work in line with individual needs and assumptions. Nevertheless, people are pushed out of their jobs when they need a little bit of extra organisation. This is unacceptable. In order to prevent such acts, the law must be used and negative attitudes must be combated. It is a big dilemma that today it costs more for businesses to hire and train new employees than it costs to push employees out of the labour market. I think it's absolutely necessary to do something about this so that we can achieve the goal of getting more people to work. There is broad political agreement on the main elements of senior policy. However, the Party of Progress, the Right and the Left make up a minority when they enter in order to set the retirement age individually. In the Christian People's Party, we are open to raise retirement age from 70 to 72 years. We also believe that there is a need for a review of the special age limits with a view to lifting more of these and raising others. However, we are sceptical about a scheme whereby the retirement age is to be determined by agreement between the employer and the employee on a case-by-case basis. We believe that such a solution will be conflict-making and reduce the possibility of a decent departure from work. If we are to achieve the goal of increasing retirement age and more seniors in work, both politicians and employers must contribute. Governments must provide incentives for longer employment participation in different ways, and employers must organise working conditions so that older workers feel the desire and experience mastering and meaning. In particular, it is necessary to amend the AFP scheme in such a way as to build it up below what, for example: the objective of the pension reform is to increase the number of people in work. Finally, the representative of Engeset shall have the honour of chairing the work of the Committee on the senior notification in a good and targeted manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e500	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e503	Then I begin the line by agreeing with the last speaker, who gave Engeset credit for his leadership of the committee's work. I just want to draw attention to a proposal on which the Christian People's Party is involved together with the other opposition parties – a proposal that the state sector should do more to reduce the exit to the AFP through concrete measures to keep the individual worker in work. I may feel that it is a little bit to open doors, because at some point the government is very specific in the message, it is in terms of helping the state to draw attention to this. One indicates that state enterprises are part of the IA agreement, and one refers to its own senior policy in the collective bargaining agreements. Would it not be more appropriate to draw attention to how the country can contribute to the inclusion of far more enterprises in the IA agreement than to focus only on state enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e512	I think it's important that we have a lot of angles of incidence in order to get more older people to work. I think it's important that the state does its own, among other things. Because, as I just said in the reply to SV, only three out of ten state employees are in work after they are 62 years old. We also have the waiting pay scheme, which is often used in state conversions. Many of those who are workers there have a high level of competence, and it must be more important to use that competence than to passively engage in a waiting aid. In addition, I think one of the most important things we can do is change attitudes. Here I think a good job is done from the Center for Senior Policy, which makes concrete suggestions on how to employ the most elderly and keep the most elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e517	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e520	As both the position and the debate here today show, there is really quite a broad consensus on both the challenges and the objectives of senior policy. The whole of society has been in a process for the last 15 years, we can say, where we have seen that with the lack of labour and the demographic challenges we face, this has become more and more pressing. We saw it through the work of the pension commission, and not least we see it well in these days, when we have the cyclical situation we have, with a screaming shortage of labour in many sectors. At that time, the issue of early departure becomes particularly pressing and therefore important to address. It seems to me that we are on a good track in getting a broad political consensus on the most important issues. We highlight all the IA Agreement and the meaning of this Agreement. There is an agreement between the country and the social partners. We recognise the importance of the tripartite cooperation we have in Norway. We also very much agree on the value of the actions carried out at individual workplaces that we have seen when the Committee has been on its way. Kristiansand and Arendal have been identified as examples. I got a phone call from a trustee at a larger industrial workplace in Bergen that would consult to find good senior measures, precisely because they lack labour and want to do something about it. Attitudes to seniors in the workplace may well be something we struggle with from the old days, as it was really about getting the most possible young people into the workplace – the representative Karin Andersen called it a monoculture – where you were going to be young and expansive and hang with all the way. That's what we're struggling with, and I think the agreement in StatoilHydro that it's been referred to, about early departure there, well maybe one of the most grotesque examples we've seen lately on this kind of attitude to seniors. I fully agree that this is a very critical agreement. No matter who owns the company, and what kind of policy they choose to follow, it's a critical agreement. But I draw a little on the smile band when, in the comment from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the emphasis is placed on the fact that it is «critical that in a company where the state itself has the majority of its shares, it is added to a senior policy that violates a policy such as government and accumulation has fallen behind». Now we are many big business representatives who have engaged us very much in the Statoil–Hydro merger and have had opinions about both the composition, management, location of the head office and strategies for the company, and we have always met a phy-position from the bourgeois parties to engage in it. We have nothing to do with this as long as it is a corporation, we have been told. But agreements on senior policy should obviously have something to do with it. I believe that, of course, we should. We need opinions on all this as politicians. There is some disagreement in this room about senior policy that crystallizes on the issue of special age limits and on the AFP. I believe that there are good reasons why we have special age limits in some professions and professions, and there should also be special age limits in some of these industries and professions. It has not been said that what you once made agreements on as a special age limit should be nailed forever, but as a principle we should have a special age limit. That's my position on it. In the case of AFP, it must be clear that this is a negotiated right. You've given up something to get these things. That's why I don't see the point that the Progress Party is trying to run on here, that this is something that everyone should be automatically entitled to. There is an agreement between the social partners that the government is also in, and that will still be, as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e541	I'm going to go into the last thing the representative Henriksen came up with, this with the AFP scheme. As Henriksen is sure to know, the AFP system was organized so that the workers within the industry could go off in a worthy way. The joint alliance was probably the first to take this up. Society has changed. There are many other workers today who are not organized and therefore do not come under the scheme. The injustice of this is that they agree to pay for the arrangement. Karin Andersen answered my question that she would be working for an extension of the AFP system by organizing more people. It would be an organisational necessity to implement such a scheme. Would it not be right for everyone who participates in the payment of taxes and taxes to be able to participate in a funded scheme, among others. through taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e548	As we say here, it is a good principle that those who participate in paying for schemes also benefit from the arrangements. Now it is the way in the world of work that someone chooses to organise themselves and by paying the quota helps us to have an organisational apparatus that presupposes pay and social conditions, including contractual pensions, and in this way the future of the labour market. We have no policy in Norway to ensure that those who are not included are totally deprived. But in the case of a contractual pension, there is an agreement that applies to a collective undertaking. There are very many trade unionists who are not covered by a contractual pension, and there are very many unorganised people who are covered by a contractual pension. So here it's not about organization or anything. This is an agreement between three parties where all parties must be involved and pay. The unorganized have chosen to stand outside, and thus they are not part of it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e557	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is also over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e560	It is interesting to note that the agreement, or measure taken by the Statoil-Hydro merger relating to older workers, has become such a central point in the debate. It shows well that this was nothing to shout very much for. I note that the representative Henriksen uses very strong words about that agreement. He characterizes it as a grotesque agreement. That's interesting. But then I think it is a bit striking that he and his party could not participate in the comment on the matter where the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left “found it critical” that this has happened. I think that's pretty striking. I think this is getting a little too much impact from protesting about the world, but follow the road, when we know at the same time that the greatest political commitment to that merger among the red-green representatives has been about everything else, namely the name and location of the head office.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e565	I agree with the representative Engeset that it is very good that we focus on such agreements. The timing of Statoil and Hydro when they entered into this agreement was not quite good, in the context of the fact that it is in exactly the same period that we are dealing with both the pension notification and now the senior policy. With regard to the comments in the vote, I would say that the essential thing is what is in common with the committee. That this should be particularly critical because it is a company where the state has a majority share, I do not consider it to be the most significant. Of course, both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre believe that what has happened is critical. Otherwise we wouldn't have been on a note that says: ‘The Committee considers this to be contrary to the intentions of the agreement on an inclusive working life to ensure that older people get longer in work.’ [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e577	Of course, it could be tempting to go a step further on StatoilHydro. But I would rather go back and angle it on some of the things Henriksen said instead. He was quite consistent at the special age limits, but as I have seen the debate earlier today, his colleagues in the other government parties were not as clear about it. With the labour market we have today, and as consistently as Henriksen refuses to assess the special age limits when we know that many today are going off as 55-year-olds, and that the great departure in many of the state-owned companies is when you are about 55-60 years old – even if I had remained in the state, I might think that when I was 57-year-old, Henriksen could elaborate a little on why it is not possible to assess any relationship at all at the special age limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e582	I tried in my post to express just the opposite of what the representative Skkelstad has perceived, namely that special age limits as a right I think we should have some places, but where you have them, it is not written in stone that the special age limit should be x the number of years for any position forever. This needs to be assessed as the nature of the position changes, and, of course, overall developments in public health. But there are good reasons why special age limits have been set in some of the professions that have it today. We can't just sweep that away in this debate. That's why I'm saying that we're going to have special age limits. But it is clear that there must be a continuous assessment of the age limits that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e587	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e590	The goal of St.meld. No 6 is to get more people to stand longer in work and thus increase the real retirement age. Norwegian society needs the labour force of the seniors to ensure economic growth and increased well-being. This is a challenge that we share with most European countries. In the coming years, the proportion of people aged 55 to 66 will grow sharply. It will therefore be vital that we do more than today to participate in the labour market. Therefore, the opposition has been critical that the notification is a bit thin when it comes to concrete actions. The message lacks a definition of who the seniors are. On the other hand, there is reason to praise the fact that the message is partly divided according to the needs of the different age groups. This thinks the Left is reasonable and could have been done to an even greater extent. I notice that some instances are going to go all the way down to 45+ to start the senior work. Those of us who still have a piece left up to 50, are probably a little stranger to the idea that senior work should start so early for all occupational groups. In the view of the Left, a reasonable definition of seniors is in the last 10 to 15 years of working life. Staff policy both in the public and private sectors needs to put the working environment and skills development for the seniors on the agenda far more than is the case today. Some large private enterprises have introduced life-stage policies as part of their human resources. We think this makes sense, and it also makes sense that the individual workplace or enterprise has both ideas and the freedom to find good solutions that suit different occupational groups and different professional lives. This is likely to become even more important in the future, as there is already a tendency in some professions for the distinction between work and private life to be more elucidated, and many people want a flexible working life. The prerequisites for a high level of participation in the profession, as many have mentioned here today, will be that it will have to pay off work. The notification points out that international studies show that the design of the pension system is the main explanation factor for the time when each employee chooses to leave the labour market. Another factor that plays a role is whether senior work is carried out in the workplace. Being seen and appreciated by the employer is very good when people who have left are asked what could make them longer in work. Good management and a conscious relationship with senior work are a very important factor in keeping the seniors at work. Lifelong learning is of the good for people, and it is very important that people choose to stand longer in work. Other important factors are the fight against discrimination and exclusion. At the same time, the Communication points out that the seniors themselves have a great responsibility to maintain and further develop their skills throughout their professional careers and to clarify their wishes and needs towards employers. It is important that employers see older workers and their need for further skills. It is very difficult to hit what can best be regarded as an unculture, namely that older workers are not satisfied when seminars or other developments in their skills are distributed. This is, as I said, difficult to come to terms with the law, because it often involves invisible structures in the individual workplace. In this context, it is important that awareness-raising and clear management work actively to prevent such unfortunate structures. Changing jobs and jobs should become more common for seniors. This is a development that we in the Left believe for most occupational groups will go on their own as the population as a whole increases in competence and education. There are, of course, some exceptions to this slightly optimistic attitude. Professional groups continue to have heavy physical occupations. In the care professions in particular, there will be an advantage if workers do not remain in the same work for 40 years. Possibilities to find easier jobs and to vary between jobs are likely to have a positive impact on people in these occupational groups, which I will come back to a little later. However, in the Left's view, the most important thing to prevent early retirement from working life is that we do better work to balance health inequalities between different occupational groups. State and municipality have a clear responsibility to organise society to minimise the risk of health damage. Increased efforts in rehabilitation and prevention are important to ensure that seniors remain in the healthcare system. For these occupational groups, the prevention of health damage must start at a much earlier date than today. Despite doing a lot of good work in this area, I am convinced that it is a greater potential to extract through variation, more organized work during periods and more technical aids. Norway has a higher proportion of older workers than many other countries. This provides a good starting point for an improved senior policy. However, it is problematic that only 1 pst. of the labour force aged over 66. We know that the employment rate falls from the mid-50s. However, it is only when one passes 62 years that the employment rate falls sharply. There is little unemployment among seniors, but many long-term unemployed are among the unemployed. Seniors have slightly higher sick leave than the average. The proportion of disability pensioners is increasing from 23 pst. in the 55-59 age group to 36 pst. in the 60-64 age group. Almost 25 pst. by 2050, the population in Norway will be 65 years of age or older. Left supports the Government's assessment that the Working Environment Act should improve the availability of longer work for seniors. Our welfare systems will depend on our success in preventing too many people from choosing early retirement and leaving the labour market. The left is in favour of the measures proposed to consider raising the age limit of the law from 70 to 72 years, as well as stimulating more active senior policies in the country by allowing the individual unit to bear the cost of leaving with the AFP. The same applies to matters such as assessing the government waiting wage system and assessing the specific age limits in the country. As many have pointed out, this has resulted in an unfortunate outcome for some occupational groups, which was hardly the intention at the time the schemes were implemented. Overall, all measures that are more conducive to combining work and retirement will help us to be positive. The left is particularly concerned that all over 62 years of age avoid curtailment of pensions if they choose to work more, and generally of more flexible working lives for seniors. We want to make more individual agreements for them over 62 years of age, and look at working time regulations for seniors in order to make more flexible solutions. We know that early retirement, and especially the AFP, is a more important departure cause for people over 62 years of age than non-pension. This will be particularly important for women in heavy care professions, together with more individual organisation at the workplace. Workers in care professionals are particularly vulnerable to injury and stress disorders, and to meet the challenges of an ageing population it will be important to keep people in these professions at work for as long as possible. This may include, inter alia: involve flexible rotational arrangements and more emphasis on technical aids to avoid heavy lifting. This is why we want each employee over 45 years of age in heavy care professionals to be more able to get an assessment of his/her work situation, with an emphasis on individual organisation. In the municipality of Bærum, all employees over 62 years of age can choose between a bonus withdrawal of NOK 20000 per year, a reduced working time of 80 pst. 100 pst job. pay and increased leisure time by 10 days per day. years and 15 days after age 64. Other municipalities have chosen different and even more favourable solutions. Since Norwegian municipalities have different economies, we have proposed that the Government organise a state test scheme so that poor municipalities can seek to finance measures for employees over 62 years of age. This will give a more level playing field during a period when some municipalities will have greater costs related to the departure of the AFP. I'll take up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e624	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e629	The left has a comment on which they stand alone, and which has one, from my point of view and I also think from many others, strange approach, by the fact that a desire to allow more temporary employment for people over 62 years of age, i.e. to reduce the employment protection provisions of the Labour Environment Act for those who are the weakest, those over 62 years of age. It will probably often be that if you are over 62 and have to enter a job, you may be more concerned than if you are 40, that this is not a position you should be able to stand in until you want to retire. Does the Left see the dilemma of reducing the employment protection of older workers, while the Left is also concerned that older people should be able to stand longer in work and be safe from having an employer policy that takes care of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e635	Here the representative Sundsbø reads the comment that someone else might read. This is to make flexible arrangements, and it is not intended at all to weaken job protection or anything similar. I have to say that flexible arrangements, even for those who are older workers, will be very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e642	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e645	I hope it both sounds and reads as I say. I believe that the situation we are now facing seniors, and not least seniors in the labour market, is marked by the fact that there is a basis for optimism. I am in the lucky situation as Minister of Labour and Inclusion that compared to many of those who have had similar tasks before me, there is now a constant basis for optimism. What has already been very strong political ambitions is now actually being met with a situation in the labour market and in the business world that causes us to get a huge pull out of the fact that there is now such a huge deficit in labour. The link between good political intentions, wise political action and the situation we have, and will be in the labour market, makes it absolutely a basis for optimism. There is an absolute possibility that we will now have very positive effects in the labour market related to better management of both seniors and other groups that have historically been weak in the labour market. Only a few days ago NAV published its last business survey. They have been in contact with companies around and asked how many vacancies they have. The companies of NAV then state that there are now about 88 000 job vacancies in the Norwegian business community. So we know that there are less than 50,000 registered unemployed. So there are many more vacancies than registered job vacancies. There is a continuous shortage of labour, and when, as Minister of Labour, I am in dialogue with the labour market, one enterprise after another is clear that the main limiting factor in the development of the enterprise is currently not a lack of jobs, not a lack of ability to produce, not a lack of market, but a lack of labour. So one could say that this might be the situation just because we're now in a boom. But when we look at the demographic developments in Norway in the years to come, I think the situation of labour shortages will affect Norwegian working life, although certainly the high economic cycle will be replaced at a very different time by a lower economic cycle. The growth of the workforce in the coming years will be in the target group that we are discussing today, i.e. those from 60 years up. That's where we have a growth in the workforce in Norway in the years to come. The companies that will succeed in the future are the companies that are able to turn their businesses into inclusive jobs. The enterprises that will succeed in the future are not least the enterprises that are able to implement a good senior policy. In this way, one can also turn the opposite: not the companies in the future to implement a good senior policy, they will fail as businesses. We get a considerable pull, along with the situation on the labour market, in the good thing we are discussing today. We see that more and more companies realize just these facts. When we see that an enterprise like Storebrand, for example. actively focus on senior policy measures and really work purposefully to get seniors to stand longer, and succeed in that way, it's of course because, I believe, Storebrand is occupied by all his employees, but it's also, of course, because the management of Storebrand sees that they should succeed as a business, they have to take better care of the seniors. Therefore, there is also good economic profitability that is the consideration behind the senior policy development of an enterprise such as Groetbrand. The enterprise after the enterprise is now on that track. But what is a challenge, which we have to face up to, is that this growing recognition in business, that more and more companies see that senior policy is a good store, that it is profitable, meets per. Today, with a situation where the financial incentives for individuals to choose to work are too poor. The companies see that this is profitable, but the individual who then has to choose to stand any longer meets with a system with virtually no incentive. So what do I think about? Yes, for example. The fact that we have a rule in popular fear that when you have 40 years' earnings, you have full earnings. If you started early and have a 40-year salary on the day you're 60 years old, we'll meet a lot of people to say, "Can't you stand a little longer at work, your company is now facilitating that you're working longer." Then ask him, "Yes, what do I want to earn in my pension on it?" Our answer per year. today is zero. You don't want to earn anything in relation to the old-age pension you get from your age of 67. It's clear that what the system is we have to take over and change, and so have we. The minimum pension trap is another example. AFP is a third example, not in the sense that we're not going to have an AFP. It's important that people should be able to get rid of the AFP. But what's basic about today's AFP system is that you get the same amount of old age pension on the day you're 67, if you choose to quit when you're 62. In other words, if you choose to work until you are 63–64–65, you get no – zero – effect in your old age pension from the age of 67. So there's going to be good arrangements for the 62-year-olds, but it's got to pay off working something longer. So there's a great variation in the way the incentives towards the individual are regulated, either by law or by collective agreements. That is why we are now approaching all these issues in an overall context, where we are not least focusing on having a close dialogue with an overall trade union movement. This means, for example: that in the spring of this year, I will take the initiative to set up a sample led by me, consisting of the leaders of the eight main social groups – four employers’ and four employees’ organisations – where we will start work to determine how the AFP can adapt to the pension agreement we have entered into here in the United Kingdom in April this year. Similarly, not necessarily through a sample, but through cooperation, we will approach the work on special age limits, which many here have been concerned about. We see it as a whole, and we see it in a context of the pension reform. The purpose of all of what we do with both AFP, special age limits, public occupational pension schemes, etc. is that we have to get a comprehensive system where it will be consistently profitable to work. This, of course, takes its time. Although the time interval is up to 1 January 2010, it is important to complement work on fronts other than those relating only to the pension system and the whole of the pension system. It should be followed up by knowledge dissemination, by attitudes. I want to share the praise that several representatives have expressed in relation to the Centers for Senior Policy, which do a very important job in this way. This is also why this government has increased support for the Centers for Senior Policy, so that we can strengthen the work of knowledge dissemination and awareness-raising. We are working on the Working Environment Act, where we are now in dialogue with the parties on raising the age limit from 70 to 72 years, and we are also working to legalise the right to part-time for seniors. The last question we're currently working on is the question of curtailment rules for the combination of work and retirement between 67 and 70 years. There are many arguments to do something about it, but there is at least no doubt that it is a budgetary matter. That is why I am asking for an understanding that I must be allowed to look at that matter in a budgetary context, and therefore come back to the matter in a budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e671	Then I hope that the Council of State will also look at the well-being of which it will give an increase in the budget, and the value creation that the seniors stand for. The Council of State was concerned with this because Storbrand, and many others, have succeeded in getting seniors to work, which is, of course, a huge gain. But the problem arises when you pass 67 years of age and get a reduction in your salary. It makes sense that when you get up to that ceiling, you don't get paid to work, and then the incentive to keep working is gone. That's why it's very important to get rid of this scheme. I have to say that the view of the Progress Party is that this is a revised pensioner's right. When can you expect to get back to Stortinget to get rid of this abbreviation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e678	In my dialogue with the labour market on senior policy measures, I have to admit that I have not met anyone who has raised the impact of the pension system on them between 67 and 70 years as a main source of incentives for senior policy measures in the labour market. There are a number of other measures mentioned before that time. The biggest challenge in Norwegian working life is not to get 67-year-olds to work on, but it is to get people to work at least closer to the 67-year-olds than what is happening today. Equally fully, as I said in my post, there may be some effects associated with this action as well. That's why we're investigating it. The Swedes themselves have said that he believes that some of the financial calculations that have been made take little account of possible dynamic effects. That's why I think it's right that we get to look at it, and then report back in a budgetary context. The first reason for this is the budget for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e685	I thank the Council of State for an interesting and exciting main post. There was not much I disagreed with, so I get to bring up the things he didn't get into. And that's the scheme that the new StatoilHydro is now adding up in relation to its senior policy, which nobody in the Storting is very excited about, as the setting shows. I would like to ask the Council of State if he believes that it is spending 3,400 million. Skr from StatoilHydro's side of getting rid of all over 58 years is a proper use of society's resources. Because it's like this is a bill that the community gets to a large extent – 75 pst. it is well that is actually covered by the community, as the taxation of oil companies is as it is. What will the Council of State do to avoid this kind of agreement in the future, because the state is in a lot of different companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e692	I agree that the agreement that Statoil has entered into gives wrong signals, and that is why I have addressed it directly with Statoil's Director a long time ago. On the same day as it was published, I contacted Statoil's director and said that I thought this represented wrong signals. The most important thing we can do to avoid government and private businesses doing the same misassessment in the future is just to point out what I tried to point to in my main post, that the companies that are now choosing to conduct a personnel policy that does not take account of the seniors are weakening their own ability to do well as a business in the future. That's why I think the most important thing we can do is argue for what we're now arguing for. At least I am not in the position that I consider that we should use e.g. the General Assembly of Statoil to instruct in human resources policy. [[President clubs]] I don't think Engeset's on that track either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e699	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, there is a strong indication that the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e702	I will continue on the same track as the representative Engeset. It is a fact that several state-owned companies actively use waiting pay schemes, the AFP and transition to disability to get rid of older workers. The last, and most serious, example is just StatoilHydro. Although there are good examples of municipalities operating offensive senior policies, we know that in general, government does not do well to ensure that employees are left in work. What action will the Government take to ensure a good senior management policy? And how does the Council of State think that state ownership should be used, perhaps positively, to prevent discrimination against older workers in enterprises where the State is a major shareholder?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e709	Now I'm going to be a little careful to explain the government's wide-ranging employer policy, because, as the questioner is aware, it's the constitutional responsibility of another government council to conduct the government's employer policy. But what I'm familiar with is that the Council of State Heidi Grande Røys has raised these questions heavily in the tariff negotiations. This has led to a clear change in the state's tariff policy towards far more positive attitudes towards senior policy measures, including in the state as an employer area. I'd like to warn you a little bit about using the fact that the state is the owner of a number of companies as an approach to senior policy measures. I think we're going to use senior policy as an intrusion angle, not ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e717	It wasn't that much to disagree with in the main posts of the Council of State. That was interesting. But I could have liked a little bit of deepening of some of the areas he was just sweeping through. I agree with what the Council of State says, that competence is one of the most important things that the seniors may have in their working life. But I might have thought about getting a deeper understanding of what he was just about, and which is also stated in the message, that we should assess the special age limits more closely. State councils might think a little loud about that assessment in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e724	I understand that it could be interesting in itself if I had thought a little bit loud, but I think that to the extent that I do it, that's exactly the arena I have here, maybe not quite ideal. In fact, in the process of pension reform — which is a multi-faceted reform, where we are now a bit on the road, but where much remains — an assessment of the special age limits is part of the whole we are going to go through. In the department we are now starting to put up a work related to it. Then we will at an appropriate time come back to Stortinget with it, not least with the questions regulated by law in that way. It is important to stress that although we have been through a big deal in the Storting, just a few months ago, we have in no way clarified everything related to the pension reform. There's a lot of work left, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e733	Much goes straight in including seniors in the workplace, and the Council of State stayed in all its posts at what goes right. What is becoming more and more embarrassing, however, is that the public does not see the profitability and necessity of integrating older workers, rather than those with disabilities and those who are on the edge of the labour market, in the same way as business. That's why I think it's too easy when the Council of State says he won't use the ownership policy, and he refers to the State Council for the State sector when it comes to the state. He could also refer to the Minister of State. But I am now asking the Minister of Labour about this: if we do not get a completely different attitude to the inclusion of older workers in the public sector, will this policy succeed? And what will the Council of State do, in that case, to correct the impression that you now have?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e738	It is tempting to start rhetorically saying that this is probably not a development that has taken off in the last 16-17 months. In that case, it must also have marked the everyday life of the previous government. I share the basic analysis of what the Højbråtten says, namely that companies will not succeed if they do not pursue a good senior policy, including state activities. Government activities will also fail in their tasks if recruitment is not possible, and the main challenge of recruitment is not least related to senior policy. That's why I share the Storting's view, which is that one of the most important things is to make sure that every single cost point in the country sees the whole of its financial choices – that pursuing a bad human resources policy has negative consequences, and that pursuing a good human resources policy has good consequences. I think one of the most important things is that the state becomes a large organization where the individual's choices have consequences for the individual workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e745	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e748	I think that today is reason to congratulate the Stortinget. This is the first time we have a debate based on a report on senior policy, and it is with the background of a unanimous remark in the Budgetary Council. S. No 11 for 2004–2005. When you've talked about those who are a little over the years, it's just the problems you've been talking about, and especially the problems in the care of the elderly. I think that we have now received our own message, got the government apparatus to go into senior policy, to think of all the healthy elderly, the elderly who can work, and actually also that older people who are insured or retired will use their residual ability to work is positive. Now, we may have gradually begun to change our attitude even in official Norway. It's a beginning. We have a huge job ahead of us, I think everyone knows that, but it's a start. I want to say that several of us, including myself, may have to be a little bit more good at not just talking about and being concerned about the costs and problems in the care and health sector of people living longer, because that's actually good. I think we should be happy, satisfied and proud that people live longer than before and have it well, and that those who need help get it. We should not create the unique attitude that perhaps more of us have contributed to creating, that the ageing of people is negative to the development of society. So it's not, in my opinion. We should be better at creating a positive attitude to the fact that we have succeeded in getting to a society, with business, public health and care for the elderly, where people live longer, and where very many are doing well. Most people are doing well, even though in other contexts we can discuss what we can do to make it possible for those who are not well, who need care and care. Of course, working life is central to this communication on senior policy. I would like to say that all employers, and perhaps especially – as others have said – the public, must try to get ahead by making it possible for older workers, who are either retired or insured, to work more. Then a keyword is flexibility. There must be something different than the choice between a full-day job and no job. There may be part-time work, four hours a day, but there may also be arrangements – and I think you should remember – where you may work for 14 days and then have 14 days free of pay. We need to make flexible working arrangements for those who are either insured or disabled but who may have residual work capacity, and for pensioners who still want to have a good share of freedom, but also want to be in the community of work and earn a little in addition to the pension. If you had 14 days and 14 days without pay – that’s okay – you would at least have the 14 days when you were at work, which you may not get today at all because it has not been prepared for that choice. Where it is possible to make flexible arrangements, even of a different duration than every day, one should be able to do so. I want to give the Council of State the challenge of perhaps setting up a group in the government system, the government apparatus or in the ministry to investigate how the public, in particular the state, as an employer where possible, can make combination positions, how one can be open if one suddenly receives an application from two people who want to divide it for 14 days each, and not to say no, it can't, it's going to be so difficult. You have to try to be open to flexibility. And of course, the combination is social security, pension and labour income, which I know the government is working on. There we have to find better solutions with grants that allow the many who would like to contribute to the residual capacity to do so. Finally, I would like to say that I also believe that all of us who sit in this Chamber, all those who have positions of leadership, which at least I have had a long time, must also look at elected bodies. The group over 60 years of age, from 65 to 70 years of age, excels with its absence in municipal government, county councils and big business. There is no simple solution, but there are actually very many older people who are concerned that there are no 75, 80 or 82 years old in local government, county councils or for that matter here. I also think that we who are engaged in political work need to be better able to look at what we can do with our own attitudes. You talk about quotaing, which I don't want, but you can at least be aware that it's different than gender and geography to take into account when you put up lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e764	There have been many relatively rosy descriptions of the situation of older people in the labour market in Norway. There are a lot of positive moves in the picture, but we still have a long way to go. There is reason to remember that there are 700,000 insured persons on different schemes outside the labour market, and many should have been included. We should do that job more when the labour market is the way it is. Older people often experience outside. Many people rightly feel forgotten, and there's reason to ask where we go as a society if we don't get to reverse that kind of attitude. I visited a construction product company in Mandal for a while. The manager there, like so many others, experienced problems in obtaining skilled labour. He went untraditional ways and invited seniors, who for some reason could no longer be in full employment, to apply for part-time work in the company. He received 80 applications for what I think was three jobs. Then he let each one work as much as they wanted, and as much as the health and social security office allowed – and the latter is not that much. It is also a reminder that there is an urgent need for reform that is now underway. He looked at what each one could contribute, instead of focusing on the obstacles, and it became a success. The labour needs are met, the customers are satisfied, the other employees like the supply in the work community, and the seniors themselves thrive and flourish as never before. It was a fantastic experience that I had to bring with me every single big-time representative. I am convinced that this is a thinking and practice that will force itself, both in business and in public. We need to think new as politicians. We must venture untraditional solutions. We have to create a culture where we look at the possibilities and not the constraints. I would argue that today there is a huge waste of human resources in Norwegian working life. It's not smart, it's not inclusive, and it's not sustainable in the long run. That's just not right. We can't afford to miss the seniors' knowledge and experience. Exclusion of the elderly is also taking place despite evidence that older workers are highly skilled, reliable, productive and have a positive impact on the working environment. I am convinced that it has to do with prejudices and negative attitudes after decades of youth worship in this country. Employers think it is more profitable to bet on a 30-year-old than on one who is over 55. I have some experience as a public manager, and I know that 30-year-olds often stay in the business four to six years, while a 55-year-old is very likely to stay in the company until retirement. Thus, the employer's employment and training costs are the most profitable compared to those who dare to bet on seniors. It pays to hire seniors, as the Council of State was in it, but profitability does not have to be the main argument for keeping older people in work. Exclusion of older workers is a graduation of human dignity. Working to include the seniors in work is the same as working to ensure that respect for the individual is taken seriously. We have to facilitate it so that we can achieve the goal that people can work as long as they want and as long as they can. I'm very happy to have been involved in a pension settlement in the Stortinget that adds up to this, where the entire public pension system in the public sector is supposed to stimulate people to stand longer in work. We have also laid the basis for adaptations in the AFP to contribute to the same objective. It is for me to say that the lead for the AFP must be firm, so that the future AFP schemes build up under this fundamental objective of the entire pension reform. The guys I met in Mandal could plan to work more than just what equals 1 G. But there the system stops today for these people. The reform work that we are now in the middle of will increase the flexibility that many people have experienced, and this will help us to get a greater share of the large resources that lie here. But first of all, I think we're getting a more diverse, balanced and better working life. It's not to despise, either. I am pleased that the Stortinget has had this opportunity to discuss a senior policy in its full scope. The representative Hagen did not mention it himself – so I can say that it was Carl I. Hagen who wrote to the Minister of Labour at the time, and there was a broad majority in Stortinget who asked for this message. I am happy that it has arrived, and I am happy for the work that is now in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e785	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e788	The new Work Environment Act entered into force on 1 January 2006. It is prohibited under the Working Environment Act to treat people differently because of their age. This was a very useful clarification. The Working Environment Act shall ensure a good and sound working environment that does not wear out workers and the Government wants the Working Environment Act to facilitate longer working hours for seniors. We know that many people are bullied out of the labour market because of their age, and that despite the fact that many older people have a competence that society and the employer need. I'm glad that senior policy has got a completely different focus than it had a few years ago. Not least, the State's senior council has helped to create a positive attitude towards seniors and increase their involvement in society. In addition, the State Senior Council has provided advice on measures to promote higher participation for seniors. One claim we often hear is that seniors have lower productivity than younger ones. It is therefore good for me to respond to this claim, as the message also does: ‘There is no clear correlation between age and productivity.’ Furthermore, the message states: ‘Features that are often strengthened by age are for example experience, social skills and responsibilities.’ These are, to the most extent, the characteristics of employers should be high when employed. This, as well as the need for competence, has meant that a municipality in Hedmark, the municipality of Løten, will offer the seniors NOK 30 000 and an additional holiday week from 1 July. The reason is that an increasingly tight labour market contributes to problems in filling vacancies in most areas of the municipality’s activities. In addition, there are increasing numbers who choose to retire early. In order to meet this situation and at the same time benefit from highly skilled labour, the Presidency decided to introduce a more radical senior policy. This is what the Løten municipality deserves for, and I hope that several municipalities can follow. Because it's like seniors are young people who've lived a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e807	High employment is important for the country. Being a part of the world of work is important for individuals. The government says in the message: ‘From a social point of view, those who have or can get a good job, and who have health, should be able to choose to work until they are at least 70 years old.’ The size cannot decide that people will want to stay in work any longer. The job must be done in the enterprises. High participation among the elderly is best achieved if workers and employers have a common interest in facilitating this. The size on its side can decide that it will pay to work. Two important assumptions are the AFP and the curtailment of the old-age pension for those who can expect to be employed after age 67. None of these two important assumptions want the Government to decide. The AFP feels like the happiness of someone. But the question is whether society and working life can afford healthy up-to-date people to choose to stop working at the age of 62 because they want to travel, be more on the cabin or enjoy their grandchildren. A lot of them are killing themselves, but it's wasting good work. The AFP was originally an early retirement scheme for workers with long professional careers in typically arduous occupations. It has gradually become a general scheme. For many, continuing to work beyond the age of 62 is a small reward. In many contexts, the AFP has also been used by companies that have wanted depopulation, and many have felt pressured out of working life against their will. In other contexts, the AFP has prevented people in the late 1950s from returning to work. These feel ashamed to be unemployed at a time when working life is screaming for labour. Several of them experience almost economic ruin and say that it goes on and on. These well-adult unemployed people do not see any improvement in their situation from this message. They're simply too expensive to hire. Employers fear that they will be left with the AFP bill. It is important that the extra cost of older workers is minimised by legislative design. Finally, attitudes towards older workers will be an important prerequisite for success in the goal of maximising work. More and more municipalities and businesses have seen the importance of seniors, and more and more offer schooling, longer vacations, shorter working days or bonuses in return for longer work. I have great faith that it will be possible to get more people to work longer, but then the government parties have to take the necessary steps to ensure that the principle of paying off work is fulfilled. Unfortunately, the government parties are not willing to take these steps today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e826	There are a few points in the debate that I need to comment on. The representative, Mr Hagen, asked the Government to take action to enable older workers, for example: working part-time, where he exemplified it with 14 days at work and 14 days off. There I can say that the Government has notified such a change in the Working Environment Act. The Council of State also stated in its statement that it would be a right for older workers to have a part-time job. I think many people will appreciate that, and that's something that many people will also be able to use when we get the new pension system in place, where you can combine work and retirement more easily. It is also necessary to put in place schemes where work and social security can be better combined, so that the curtailment does not become so strong that it does not pay to work. Another theme that has been raised relates to the measures that are envisaged and which are likely to work well in many contexts, in order to reduce the burden on older workers in shiftwork. I think that's good. At the same time, however, we know that shift and rotation work is very tiring. I therefore call for a comprehensive employer policy in this area. We see that in some of the professions in which you go tour and shift, the exclusion is very high. So you have to be careful not to accumulate the work environment burden on some age groups that increase the risk of being exposed to those with health problems. So you have to have a whole. It is also the case that full-time work should be a right and part-time job an opportunity for all workers. There are many studies that also indicate that many younger workers who work part-time want to work full-time, and that for many, it is a good work environment measure. I would like to stress again that a good senior policy must start with a comprehensive employer policy, which ensures that people do not lose their health at work at a younger age. It's a little late to start repairing it when people start getting closer to their 60s. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the burden of working life becomes such that it is actually possible to work at retirement age. The overall perspective, both public and private employers need to have if they are to succeed in reducing the involuntary exclusion of the labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e837	The reason why I take the floor is that I think it is completely incomprehensible that there can't be a deal on proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox I also find it sad that this is a proposal that does not even get multiples in this room. The proposal is based on the arrangements that apply to those who are between 67 and 70 years of age when they are indebted to the pension. Today, the rule is that if a 67-year-old works more than 2G, which today amounts to 125 784 kroner, one in practice, if one has a relatively good pension, will have an effective taxing of 85 pst. It's then included 40 pst. cut in the pension, which one receives when the income passes 2G. That means that a worker who initially has NOK 200 per employee. hour, will sit again at 30 kroner net per. hour, if he thinks more than this amount. It is clear — at least for the vast majority — that such a rule will push many workers out of work. And it's a situation where the individual worker or society will be lit up. The Ministry says that they do not take into account dynamic effects when this is the case. What they're saying is that one doesn't really care about how many people will be pressured out of the world of work because of this kind of rule. If one hadn't cut 40 pst. in the pension, one that has NOK 200, would have a seat of NOK 110, while one now – because of this cut – would be left with just NOK 30. It would therefore have been an advantage for everyone that one had changed this immediately. This would have led us to get more people who would have worked more. This, in turn, would have led to easier work and services in society – in many areas today, labour is scarce – and it would also have led to the Minister of Finance getting more tax dollars. The last one may not be the most important one, but I'm quite overestimated that the extra tax revenue that the Minister of Finance would have received by changing this rule would have far exceeded what she would have lost in increasing pension payments. So everyone would have started on such a change. Therefore, it is both incomprehensible and incomprehensible that not a single plural will support proposal No. 4 - from the Progress Party, Right and Left - in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e850	Fortunately, we are in a situation where most speakers — including those from the opposition — use speaking time to praise the Government for its actions. And they feel that there is progress in the work of giving older workers the opportunity to stand longer in work. It's positive. I also record that the Kjenaas Kjos and Hagesets of the Progress Party are under sharp attack because they do nothing – as Kjenaas Kjos says – with the AFP or with the curtailment of the pension for those who, after the age of 67, want to work in addition to a income of 2G. Firstly, in the case of the AFP, all batches – except the Advance Party – in the context of the treatment of the pension notification did not long before favour a significant conversion, not least with a view to removing obstacles in order to have greater flexibility in the way of longer-term work. So it's not long since we did something about this. It will be implemented from 2010, when the pension reform enters into force. In the case of employees over 67 years of age and their ability to avoid shortening the pension when the income exceeds 2G, I feel that the Council of State has given us positive signals that this will be worked on. I am still surprised that you want everything or nothing, that you are not even interested in discussing solutions that will give you a greater opportunity, but that will not necessarily give you – something I referred to – approx. 160–170 pst. in income from one year to another. It is not certain that this is necessary to stimulate this group to use its labour force after the age of 67, but that we are looking at whether the measures available today — which limit — can be adjusted somewhat. It will also have fewer budgetary effects than going for everything or nothing. I note that this is a good work that everyone seems to be pleased with. Then I guess we'll also have to assume that it's natural at the end of the debate to peck the details.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e865	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See pages 3167 and 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e885	This interview will be taken up by the representative Dagfinn Højbråten.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e888	Most people who have been in hospitals can tell you about something that shouldn't have happened. A patient got infection in the wound after an operation, X-rays were confused, wrong medicine was given, etc. Although something went wrong, it does not necessarily mean that someone made a mistake. It can be called adverse events and defined as ‘an unintended and undesirable consequence of medical examination and/or treatment’. An unfortunate incident does not always have unfortunate consequences. By comparison, traffic is often near-accident. But often unfortunate events have consequences, such as: worsening of symptoms and distress, prolongation of disease and duration of treatment and, in worst cases, death. The consequences therefore vary greatly. One important aspect of the consequences is that they are not only physical, but also mental. For some, bitterness and disappointment can last their lives. It is of great importance to the individual how things went wrong are handled. On the one hand, it can be explained out, on the other hand, it can be cleaned up and regretted. Both patients, relatives, personnel and, eventually, health care become victims when something happens that should not have happened. It drains the hospital for money through more treatment, it creates frustration, and it destroys cohesion. In this context, when adverse health events are put on the agenda, it is not about finding scapegoats. Human errors are often due to relationships that individuals did not have control of. The causes of adverse events are many: misassessments of how a patient can tolerate treatment, technical errors in the execution of treatment and insufficient knowledge of the treating patient. But also system errors, i.e. bad organisation, bad routines, stress, poor or lack of guidelines and poor cooperation are important reasons. This can be prevented to varying degrees. According to a Harvard University study, 58 pst. such events are prevented. Uncertainty is linked to an assessment of the number of adverse events occurring in healthcare. The State Health Authority compares the figures we have about this to the top of an iceberg. It's not reassuring. In other words, there's reason to believe that there's great darkness. That's reason to assume that the entire 10 pst. Of patients in Norwegian hospitals, adverse events occur. That is, this is a serious problem. They should therefore be prevented, primarily in the interests of patients themselves, also in the interests of relatives, employees and health care. Trust in healthcare is weakened when something goes wrong. Economically, it means a lot to be able to prevent unfortunate events, because failing to do so will lead to a loss of health care production and increased bedtime. Several factors point to the fact that a number of unfortunate events will happen in the future if we do nothing to prevent them. Increasing age of the population, more complex medical treatment, stronger specialisation, unrealistic demands for healthcare from patients and relatives, and increasing demands for effectiveness and rationalisation in hospitals are involved. So what does it take to simplify these events? It is necessary to focus more on patient safety in Norwegian hospitals and to take measures to safeguard the services. Maybe the most important thing is to create a culture to report the things that shouldn't have happened, and then use it to learn from it. The working environment must be characterised by transparency, trust, liberality, helpfulness and cooperation in order to reduce the occurrence of adverse events. It is important to recognize that it is in the nature of medicine that everyone can make mistakes sooner or later. In the prevention work, this recognition must be disseminated in the training of health professionals. The health service cannot learn from its faults if it does not admit its faults. There may be some of the problems of not having a complete reporting system for these types of events. Admitting errors must not be seen as a personal defeat. Therefore, it is important to ensure the security of reporting. All incidents and near-events must be reported to the hospital security management. All events, at least the serious ones, must be reported to a national patient safety centre. It will provide both local anchoring and national overview and national responsibility. The Norwegian reporting system today does not provide a good enough basis for learning from unfortunate events. The central health centre of the State Health Authority is notified of serious incidents from the county doctors, who have received the notification from the hospitals. Despite measures to make these messages more anonymous, staff will still feel exposed and presented as scapegoats. This will prevent them from reporting adverse events. In addition, I would like to claim that today's system of messages is too fragmented, fragmented, untransparent and unworthy of what must be the main purpose of all this work, namely to ensure and monitor the quality of the services. I would like to propose the following: 1st@item: inlistbox Culture must be created to report adverse events.2. The messages should be anonymous. It can be ensured through a national unit and without penalties linked to these notifications.3. The national unit needs to get a lot of events in order to see them in context. The individual hospital does not have enough incidents of the rarer kind.4. The national unit must work specifically with this whole field. The Norwegian medical association last week called for a reporting system for errors during its national government meeting, without entailing punishment, and where it can be reported anonymously. They want unintended events to be used for learning and improvement processes. The Medical Association also presented a survey showing that almost one in ten Nordics are concerned about being mistreated by hospitalisation in Norway. National unit for patient safety is, as I know, established in these days. I'm sure the Council of State will say more about that. That's good, and there's an important step on the way to learning from unfortunate events. However, the entity is established without a national, anonymous and comprehensive reporting system. The unit therefore lacks an important source of information and knowledge to enhance patient safety. In Australia, Denmark and England, comprehensive national systems are in place to report adverse events anonymously and without penalties. Knowledge is summarised and measures are taken to reduce the occurrence of such conditions. In Australia, patient safety work has been ongoing for many years. A reporting system, classification system and analytical apparatus has been developed that constitutes a whole. The reporting system shall include a full and detailed report on the incident as far as possible. It can be anonymous, it is voluntary, and it is guaranteed without consequences for the reporter. In Denmark, all unintended events and near-events are reported. Reporting is anonymous if desired and guaranteed without a criminal response. Work is anchored locally but connected to a national network. This needs to be followed up with feedback to staff, measures and targeted prevention work. In England, all unfortunate events, small and large, are reported. There are 60,000 reports coming in each month. In Sweden, a regulation on quality and patient safety has been drawn up that puts the responsibility for adverse events at the disposal of management, and a manual for work has been drawn up. In my opinion, the Norwegian healthcare system is at risk of shutting down important information that can help the service improve, by not having a fully organised reporting system. I stress that this is something other than the oversight functions related to serious defects and deficiencies that the State Health Authority must have. This is a learning channel. In my opinion, there is a need for a national, unified channel for such learning of unfortunate events. It will provide better quality, and it will provide greater security for the individual that things that happen, but that shouldn't have happened, are actually being followed up. It will also provide a security around the reporting process, which means that each employee dares to say when something goes wrong, and does not let himself be told about something that is quite important, of fear of represals. It may be essential to improve the quality of the service. I have the following questions for the Council of State — still on behalf of the representative of the Council of State: Will the Council of State ensure the establishment of a national reporting system for adverse events in the health sector, which ensures anonymity and is without sanctions, so that we can learn from these events and achieve better patient safety in Norwegian hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e945	I would like to join the inter-pellant and the representative of Højbråten in pointing out that we need to focus on measures to prevent health defects and accidents. It is also essential to facilitate learning from the mistakes made, as the representative Højbråten pointed out. We must both learn and prevent at all levels. To get a spearhead in this work, I have decided to set up a new independent unit to promote patient safety in Norwegian hospitals. The Patient Safety Centre shall play a role in health care in the learning and prevention of adverse events. Accidents in hospitals and how to report them have been a theme both in our country and internationally over several years, and are now known to test out different models in several countries. England, Denmark and Sweden have established reporting systems of relatively new dates, as the representative Høybräten also mentioned. From Denmark, we know that the newly established anonymous reporting system receives more and more reports of adverse events to the central database. The experience so far is, as I've come to know, both positive and negative. For the time being, it is pointed out, inter alia, that: several challenges with an anonymous reporting system, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Information and training in the use of the system requires time and resources. The notification system has been in place for too short a time to detect the number of failures that have been reduced since the system was introduced. The Swedish government has recently proposed a package of measures to increase patient safety such as: contains a reinforced deviation reporting system. The social board wants to maintain a system of non-anonymous messages, and it is intended to require health professionals to report to the responsible level of treatment within seven days of the recognition of an accident. An interesting difference between the Swedish and the Danish models lies, as I see it, in the view of anonymity. We also know that this discussion is going on with us, and I am aware that the Medical Association also recently had this up at its meeting. We were known early in Norway to impose an obligation to record faults and unfortunate events. We chose many years ago to base the principles of internal control on healthcare. These are rules that oblige all healthcare providers to have procedures for detecting, correcting and preventing adverse events. In other words, the health service is obliged to have a learning and improvement system. The adverse events shall be reviewed for reasons and consequences and, where there is a risk of serious incidents being repeated, measures shall be taken to prevent them. I will briefly explain the main notification schemes. First, we have the obligation to notify according to the law on specialist health services § 3-3. According to that provision, healthcare professionals are required to report serious incidents that resulted in or could result in injury to patients to the State Health Authority. This shall then be notified to the Reporting Centre of the State Health Authority. This notification mechanism aims at clarifying the background to adverse events and preventing similar events from occurring again. So the system has learning and quality improvement as its purpose, and not punishment, as it is often produced. These messages are also used by the National Health Inspectorate as a source of information and as a basis for dialogue with health businesses on quality improvements. The notifications are also used for risk and vulnerability assessments when health oversight selects areas for supervision. In 2005, there were 1,945 reports of serious incidents to the Reporting Centre. The Health Authority assumes that there are several serious incidents that should have been reported. 34 pst. of the notified events resulted in significant personal injury in 2005. Of these, there were 6 pst. due to errors in the use of medicinal products. More than half of the events involved conditions that could lead to significant personal injury. Health surveillance believes it is important to maintain this notification system – primarily to protect patients, but also because it is useful in the exercise of the supervision of healthcare. In an anonymous notification scheme, the serious incidents will be difficult to trace. It will be difficult to go back to each serious incident, analyse why it happened, and then take preventive action against similar events. Health surveillance considers it important to be more transparent about reporting errors and adverse events and that it is not advisable to wind up the present notification system. As you know, there are also a number of other notification schemes, such as the representative Højbräten, through the Directorate for Social and Health, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, the State Medicines Agency, the Labour Inspectorate, the police and health authorities. All health regions are now working to put in place new systems and electronic tools for dealing with all kinds of adverse events, including injuries to patients. As of 1 January 2004, Norway has had an anonymised system for monitoring blood products. This is a system based on volunteering. The system is effective in detecting adverse events and has already led to regulatory improvements in this service. This is an anonymised model that I would like to continue, and we want to use the experience in the development of good reporting systems for the rest of Health-Norway. Hospitals in the Health East are in the process of implementing electronic reporting systems for complaints, aberrations and incidents. The messages are made open within hospitals, but the information is anonymous when it is forwarded. To get many messages, there is a low threshold for using the systems. Haukeland University Hospital has also come a long way to introduce a low-threshold electronic reporting system. They have, as far as I know, good experience with the system, where the messages are first processed in professional groups and then used for learning. I'm going to be very interested in the experience with these models. These new reporting systems can provide anonymised summaries and reports that can be forwarded to the national patient safety unit of the Knowledge Centre, which has been recently established. A working group of representatives from the Medical Association, the Norwegian Nursing Association, user organisations, regional health companies and the Social and Health Directorate has assessed the reporting arrangements we have today. They considered that it was not advisable to liquidate any of the established arrangements. According to this group, it was also not easy to include them in a new common notification system where the anonymity of the notifying party would reduce the possibility of analysing what had happened and preventing new events. The working group pointed out that we already have a great deal of information about errors and adverse events in the reporting systems we have today, and that there is little to gain from establishing a completely new national reporting system. The challenge, as the working group sees it, is that we do not use the information to learn from errors and prevent damage. The working group therefore recommended that we set up a national unit for patient safety, and I have done so. This unit shall include, inter alia: engage in information, education and networking on what can and should be done to improve patient safety. Work shall contribute to building a good reporting culture in healthcare. The target group is healthcare, users, responsible authorities and service producers. The unit shall receive information from the notification systems we have and shall cooperate closely with Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation and the Health Authority. In the year’s mission document to regional health companies, I have said that adverse events should be reported to the National Unit for Patient Safety. Health enterprises shall cooperate with the unit on the data to be sent and in what form to do so. They shall stimulate health businesses to use the new unit as a basis for learning and harm prevention. In the national health plan, it has also been established that the unit will report if it appears that we have insufficient information on errors and accidents to perform proper harm prevention work. I have therefore not put the bomb down on new initiatives in relation to future notification systems. If the National Patient Safety Unit finds that we have too poor a knowledge base, so that we do not know enough to learn, analyse and prevent adverse events in Norwegian healthcare, I will of course listen to the advice I get about it. We take patient safety in healthcare seriously, and that's why. Transparency is important, and we need to change the culture of health professionals in order to report adverse events. National health authorities shall encourage healthcare to pay high attention to everything that can be done to create safe services and avoid damage. Overall efforts to enhance patient safety are unlikely to depend on capturing as many of the unintended events and almost occasional incidents as possible. From other countries, we know that we only need a small number of messages to capture what creates dangerous health conditions. Therefore, I am more impatient to take action to reduce accidents in the future than after launching new reporting schemes to record the accidents that have already occurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e999	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was adequate and broad – but which, in my view, shows the problem of the system we have today. There are a variety of messages, different systems have different reporting mechanisms, and they protect their reporting systems by telling you that you have to feel just the way it is now. They may be right about that, but I find it strange that in a number of other countries, and far larger countries than Norway, they are able to achieve uniform systems, such as the United States and Japan. in Australia, where you have many years of experience that this works well. Nevertheless, it is essential that individual patients, individual citizens, feel confident that health care errors and adverse events are recorded and followed up. With the system we have today, I would argue that Norwegian patients cannot feel confident that unfortunate events are being recorded and followed up. This is an important prerequisite for having a good healthcare service, namely patient safety and safety, which suffers from today's system. The council says that you are very concerned about patient safety, most concerned about learning from the mistakes you get registered and getting done with them. I agree that it is the most important thing – that you do something about what you actually detect and register. But I am concerned that the Council of State is following the advice she has received from the underlying agencies and agencies to which she referred, who will keep their own arrangements rather than look at those countries that have good experience in taking entirely new and collective action around this. I'm disappointed in that. I note, however, that the Council of State was not entirely reprehensible, that she will listen to recordings that will certainly come in this debate, but also to the input of the new national patient safety unit. I would encourage the Council of State to ensure that experience is gained – not only from Denmark, which has very brief experience with this, but also from Australia, which has many years of experience. Perhaps you should also take a look at how another business that has human lives between its hands every single day, namely aviation, does this with the registration of errors. There are also many years of experience with this type of reporting system. I think, in all humility, that healthcare has something to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1012	There is no disagreement between representative Højbråten and me that it must be even better where it is not good enough, and that everything that can be done must be done to prevent adverse events. When that happens anyway, it has to be learned from it. That is also the basis for my answer. I'm trying to facilitate it through the new National Patient Safety Centre established at the Knowledge Centre. That we're going to get an environment that's going to learn from and get an overview of what's actually happening to errors, I have great hopes about. We have, as I said, chosen to keep the reporting systems that deal with the most serious incidents through the State Health Authority. I think it's important. I would also like to inform the Norwegian Government that the Health Authority is now revising the form used to report errors, and the supervision is not strange because the name of the notifying party can be deleted there, so that there are processes going on here. Good quality assumes that the likelihood of errors and adverse events is reduced to a minimum. It's very important. Then it's also important that every director of our healthcare has a culture, a behavior and a way to lead that makes those who work there actually dare to report from, so that you can learn from it. Those who work with this for daily use also say that tracking is important in order to learn from it. There's some of the drawbacks of an anonymous system, and there's very different experience in how it works. I'm supposed to be listening to and learning from the experiences of other countries in the wider process, but it's at the workplace that the main work in this area needs to be done, in order to provide patients with the best possible offer where they can be safe. I'm not locked for all the future in this area, but I think we should now give the new unit a chance to see what they're getting at. But I am more than willing to gain even more experience from other countries. There are also interesting attempts in our country, and we have models for anonymous messaging systems. That means I haven't put the boom down for what's going to happen in the future, but per. Now we believe that it is important to try out the newly established patient safety unit, and that it is actually a point that we also have systems that allow one to track what really happened, so that the system can learn from it – not to take individuals, but to learn, so hopefully to prevent similar events happening in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1025	The theme that the interpellant addresses is important. Patient safety must always be central and focused on improving the quality of the Norwegian healthcare system, both in order to avoid pressures on individuals and not least on socio-economic considerations. It's a goal for us to help and treat disease, but we can never be careful enough about patient safety, because it can always happen accidentally, harm, even death, because something unexpected happens that shouldn't happen. A 1999 report, ‘To Err Is humane: Building A Safer Health System’, estimated that 98 000 died due to healthcare failure in the United States. The report therefore shows that human failure can never be avoided and that some measures need to be taken to improve patient safety. There is also evidence that a constant focus must be on better organisation, including the interpellant, and a quality system to avoid injury to patients. When the Knowledge Centre investigated this in ‘patient safety in hospitals – knowledge or campaign?’ from 2007, they found that not everything in that report could be transferred to Norwegian conditions, but that it was important to include things that could be transferable. Patient safety is primarily related to proper treatment, avoiding medical defects or near-failure, but there is also a need to know what kind of treatment helps, what is best documented, and when it is to be used, i.e. the safety of better treatment. There are already many systems, on which the Council of State has also been involved, which are designed to capture the errors that occur and which are to be reported and which are the basis for the requested improvements. This must be used actively, and cultures must be created at the workplace that make it legitimate to report and legitimate to do something about it. The Council of Europe, the WHO and the EU recommend ‘No name, no shame, no blame’. For the time being, we have names, but the rest should also apply to Norway. It is a task to follow up and improve the conditions that are revealed; if not, all the reporting systems we have will be systems that are not used or that no one can attach themselves to. Information and knowledge need to be disseminated to all patients, and we need good tools to identify potential hazards to safety. It's also necessary to look back at what's done abroad, and to improve it so that we can transfer it to Norwegian conditions. In 2006, the Council of Europe recommended that its members focus on patient safety and prevent adverse health incidents. That's what the new unit can do. It may support the healthcare system’s efforts to record, analyse, learn and prevent errors and unintended incidents. Since the Centre is required to carry out educational activities and not to carry out checks, inspections or carry out actions already carried out by the competent authorities, it is not necessary, in my view, at this stage, for this centre to be a new notifying body. The unit shall have access to relevant information, to which the Council of State has referred, from the national environments, from hospitals, from the State Health Authority and from Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation. This may result in a lot of good information being provided without creating new systems. So we know a lot about what's going on, and how important it is to take it active in everyday life and implement it in all parts of the health system. The knowledge we already have must be taken with us – for the benefit of patients. The Councils concluded that she was open about what will happen in the future and how this will be further organised. I have great faith that it will be followed up further, so that we will always get the best patient safety system that we can have here in Norway. I have great confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1048	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant who has taken up this interpellation, because he is actually putting a very important matter on the agenda. I think at least that the low number of reported events that we get from the health care system today, should actually be a warning that we have a system that doesn't work optimally, because we often get reports of events that haven't been reported. This is quite understandable, because when one is struggling in this environment for a day, the fear of persecution and traceability, as pointed out by the Council of State, can just cause the individual to be afraid to say so. I think the low number of events reported in itself shows that there's reason to do something about the system. We are talking about the importance of whistle-blowing in other sectors, in order to know what is happening, and how important it is then that the individual is protected, precisely against being told who is behind the message itself. This isn't to punish anyone. This is precisely because health care is totally dependent on knowing what's going on, even of unfortunate events, in order to learn from it, which the Council of State also had in mind in its response to the representative Højbrätten. I believe that the debate we have today is very important because we show that we are taking this seriously. We'll put it on the agenda. Also in this room we show that we actually want to have a debate on this, to make some input related to it. It's quite obvious that there has to be a cultural change to show that it's actually allowed to say from events, yes, not just that it's legal, but that it has to be almost a commitment. We all have to have one thing in mind, and that is to make treatment and everyday life the best possible for patients and thus give them the best patient safety. It is also important to be able to give an anonymous message, precisely because the person reporting is dependent on being safe for himself, so that it is not in the hospital department, or where you work, that it becomes a backtrack to the individual. In some contexts it is important to add up two or two when you suddenly receive a visit from the Health Authority or others who are going to review these matters. There may be specific cases, and then, in some cases at least, it can be very easy to find out who is behind them. I don't think one necessarily excludes the other. The mere fact that authorities, in particular in relation to serious incidents, should be able to have the traceability and to implement measures that might lead to an investigation by the Health Inspectorate does not necessarily prevent anonymised systems from also being available, in order to have them related to training, review and change of procedures. It is totally dependent on this in order to improve health care. I fully support the Council of States, bearing in mind that we do not need to get into a situation where the current supervisory system needs to be changed – because it is important – because this is also a matter of safety. So we're going to follow that piece up. But it's also important that we have the anonymized piece. It makes no sense to set up a national unit for patient safety if the input is not sufficient to do that job, namely to make recordings of new routines, ways of doing things, so that as patients we can always feel secure that everything is done for the best – for that is what you do out there. The health service tries every day to help as many patients as possible, without making any mistakes, but mistakes occur, even if we don't like it at all. The question is, how do we tackle the mistakes to make things better, so that the least possible is exposed to adverse events in the future? Then I think it's important that we do the exact same thing as the interpellant right here. We have to put in place a system that we can learn from, where we can get a real input, because a system or a routine never gets better than the knowledge we put into it. Then we also have to find more arenas that we can get information from. If it's anonymized then, I think it's really important, because it gives you security that you can be anonymous and not be persecuted because you're reporting. In conclusion, I just have to say that we need to have as simple routines as possible, without form fields. It's absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1072	The interpellation concerns the specialist healthcare service and the daily routine of all Norwegian hospitals. It is important, but let me just start by reminding you that this is not the whole picture of patient safety in Norway. Today, there is a big headline in the Newspaper that deals with the conditions for patients in our hospitals, and that shows that there is a lot of evidence that there are serious and quite systematic deficiencies in the medication of a large number of elderly people in hospitals. This means that the question of patient safety is even more comprehensive than the one referred to by the interpellant in the interpellant. The Ministry of Health’s draft budget for 2005 referred to accidents as 2000 deaths and 15 000 permanent injuries to patients every year. This is based on a report prepared by Professor Peter F. Hjort on behalf of the Social and Health Directorate in 2003. The weakness of the report is that it is not based on specific Norwegian figures but on a calculation based on the corresponding surveys carried out in other countries, transmitted in relation to the number of hospitalisations in Norway. Nevertheless, there is reason to assume that the numbers are somewhat striking for reality. In any case, it is a cross-section of the mind that quality assurance measures appear to be a lower priority in healthcare than they are in most manufacturing establishments in this country or than the case is – as the interpellant pointed out as parallel – in civil aviation. It should be expected that, where living people are concerned, quality assurance measures would be significantly stronger and significantly higher priorities than where goods are produced. Let it also be mentioned that when I read the Health Authority's reports, which are coming on and on, it seems to me that the reports often point to the fact that the supervision has pointed out exactly the same errors earlier when reviewing the same parts of the healthcare system, without any improvement in the meantime. It must mean that, despite the existence of regulations and despite the existence of legal provisions, there is a not insignificant inertia embedded in the systems that makes this at management level – the Council of State rightly pointed out that this is a management responsibility, of course it is – is not a high enough priority in the day-to-day activities. Now there's reason to point out that it's not just a matter of reporting practices, it's also a question of what you measure in relation to, i.e. what standards you operate with. During the previous ageing period, a number of measures were put in place by the Ministry for the preparation of a new guide to the regulation on internal control in social and health services. Ten national medical quality records were established by regional health establishments. These quality records are also a key source of information in identifying defects and deficiencies. 18 national quality indicators were introduced for specialist health services, both in somatic hospitals and in mental health protection. These indicators shall provide a significant basis for governance information at the level of institutions. I have no final conclusion on an anonymous notification register at national level, if any. There are arguments for, and there are arguments against. But let me point out that the professional solidarity that characterizes not least the role of a doctor, is initially a positive form of solidarity, but only on the condition that solidarity with the users, patients, has a right of way. Where there is a conflict between the two grounds of solidarity, the patient’s consideration shall be entitled to pre-emption.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1089	Patient safety should be at the centre of all patient treatment. It must be done at all levels, from the individual hospital department, through local quality assurance work, to regional and national measures that promote patient safety in our hospitals. As explained by the Council of State, there are a number of notification systems and it is important that there are different notification systems at different levels. It is essential that errors are detected. Either in the case of medical devices or in the case of other deviations by health professionals, an internal check must be carried out to detect deviations. Internal control shall contribute to procedures that both detect, correct and prevent discrepancies or adverse events. Thus, the National Unit for Patient Safety will pool knowledge and provide useful learning information for healthcare, healthcare users and responsible authorities on actions that can be taken to improve patient safety. It is also essential that this unit be independent. It shall carry out information work, education and networking based on a good reporting culture and promoting the transfer of experience. Furthermore, the guidelines state that the patient safety unit shall: ‘Promote a good health culture by the entity’s activities based on anonymised and safe information’. The councils do not close the door – i.e. she used the expression: does not put the ‘boom down’ – so that one should look at the message systems, if any. That, I believe, is a wise approach. But we have reporting systems at different levels today, which many think are quite good. The problem may not be that people don't report. A few weeks ago, the Health and Welfare Committee visited the State Health Authority. The manager, Lars E. Hanssen, pointed out that the big challenge was not that things were reported, or that things were revealed. The big challenge was simply that there was a lack of learning in organisations around, and that there was a management problem. As the representative also mentioned, many continue in the same track even if deviations are revealed. Therefore, as we heard, the main task of the patient safety unit, at the Knowledge Centre, may be to contribute to the good and comprehensive recovery of the learning potential of adverse events reported in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1106	Reporting events and mishandling is primarily a matter, I believe, of corporate culture. At least it is an assessment that I have made myself, given that I have our director at a local hospital for 11 years. The experience I have from this is that there may be a very large difference in the reporting culture between the individual departments. We know that the reporting culture is very different between hospitals in our country as well. I believe that the management of the corporate culture and the reporting culture is an important responsibility of the individual institution, but it is also important, of course, that the top leader of Norwegian health care agencies, the Council of State, has a strong focus on the issue that has been raised by today's interpellant. I agree that the reporting system itself can of course be improved, but, as the representative Nesvik mentioned earlier, a reporting system must be easy to use. If the system becomes too complicated to use and too bureaucratic – I have seen these forms, or there are many different forms – the bureaucracy system is thus its worst enemy. It is particularly important to have systems that are operational in a sensible way or that are at least considered reasonable by the actors. We know that this is a competition for time. The most important thing for better reporting for the benefit of patients is, as I have already said, to improve the reporting culture. Then, too, many actors have a responsibility. We have them added in general, of course, we have the trustees, we have trade unions, like, for example. medical associations, nurses' associations, departmental management, yes, the list can be done almost endlessly. The main responsibility for improving the reporting culture and corporate culture lies, in my and the left, at the top management, at the executive board and at the seventh and last at the responsible state council. But we, too, who are debating the matter here today, can also contribute to improving the reporting culture as well as the corporate culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1115	I think the debate illustrates a strong cross-party commitment to the important issue that has been addressed here, namely how the entire healthcare system, both primary and specialist healthcare, can become more educational in relation to events that should not have happened. I think it's further illustrated that there's a need for simplification and more complete in the system. We're told that the Council of State will move a little bit step by step, but I would like to stress that I think it's quite obvious that there is a need for a radical change in culture. If culture is governed by fear: fear of being reported, fear of being punished, fear of becoming a scapegoat, there will be no learning culture. It applies in all organisations, but it applies not least in a service as publicly exposed as healthcare. That's why I think it's wise to add up to an overall system that gives maximum learning effect, and at the same time has the lowest possible threshold of reporting, so that you get that flow of knowledge, and get the good learning circle going. The representative of the Kärlaa said the problem is not that it is not reported. Well, when the State Health Authority in its evaluation of the notification scheme says that this is the top of an iceberg, I think they are near to pointing to a problem – to put it mildly. And when the Health Inspectorate's director talks about lack of learning skills in the organisation, i.e. the ability to follow up the things that are pointed out by supervision, he also points to a fundamental health care problem. What this ultimately goes back to is: Can Norwegian patients trust that health services are able to learn from their mistakes, are able to recognise them, report them and follow them up in a systematic and good way? I would like to ask the Council of State if she believes that this is the case. If she answers yes, it's excellent. For my part, I will allow myself to put a question mark on whether that is the case. I don't think we politicians should settle for it. On the contrary, I think we should go to the heart to create a completely different culture around these issues in the Norwegian healthcare system. We owe it to the thousands of patients who every day depend on the fact that healthcare in Norway is actually good at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1126	In relation to the last question from the representative Højbrätten: I am not satisfied with everything that is happening in the health care system today, nor in the question of an always learner of their faults, because it does not always happen. That's why neither I nor the government are going to calm us down. That's why we want to go on, and that's why we've now created the new unit. So to the representative for pay, which refers to a headline in the Newspaper today that shows that there are more places than in the specialist health service we have challenges. I fully agree with that. Our new centre is going to look first at the specialist health service, but then they're going to look at how the municipalities can join a national system. I think that obviously is also necessary. I'm glad that transparency is now more focused, because it's necessary to know when adverse events happen, what happened, where it happened, when it happened, and how the event evolved. It's also necessary for those who were involved in that event, to get feedback, in fact, in order to learn from it. It is good that there is now more agreement in our regional health companies, as I see it, that there should be more transparency around this. Let me just use an example. In the Middle East, they are now using an electronic reporting system based on transparency. They agree that messages should in principle be signed and then sent to the nearest leader. Then the entity may take out reports of various accidents and events that have occurred and what characterises them. These reports are usually anonymous and may be sent to new patient safety centres. In other words, openness about the events internally, but anonymity externally. I think there's a lot here that you can and should learn from. So to the State Health Authority, which is now revising the new form to the reporting centre. It is now the case that healthcare companies stress that they are working to improve the transparency of notifications of adverse events, and a voluntary signature scheme will undermine that work. However, in the reporting centre’s database, where the Health Authority reports its adverse events, there is now no record of any patient name or health care professional’s name. It's filled in on the paper-based form, but it's not included in the database. In other words, there are many ways to do it, and I fully agree with the representative Nesvik that one does not exclude the other. We need systems to ensure that patients can be safe as far as possible, at the level of healthcare provision, and when mistakes occur, which we obviously have to try to reduce to an absolute minimum, there have to be systems to make sure that it is learned from those mistakes, in order to prevent the same happening in the future. I am very actively working on this with regional health companies. I have now also instructed them that all supervisory reports from the State Health Authority should be dealt with in the boards. It wasn't obvious before. There is also one way to take this even more seriously than has been done in some contexts up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1139	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1157	Eating disorders are linked to Western culture and have a strong focus on the body as a symbol of psychological and social mastering. Eating disorders are in many ways a ‘new’ phenomenon, and unfortunately the knowledge of the various disorders is not good enough. Where's the distinction between an anorexia, sometimes overeating and frequent vomiting, and a bulimia that's underweight? Several may also end up outside these categories, such as ‘atypical’. It doesn't necessarily mean they're less troubled, but it's harder to make the right diagnosis. Many move between the different diagnostic groups. It may start with anorexic symptoms, later becoming more bulimic symptoms and after a few years it ends up overeating. What often triggers anorexia can be stress and puberty, and too many bullying may have been the triggering factor. The disease is often associated with young girls, but boys are actually also affected. For many, outpatient treatment is not a good enough treatment. As a rule, patients have been ill for several years before receiving daily treatment. Motivation is ‘peachware’ and it is important that the waiting time for treatment is short. This also applies to the daily offers. On the news Friday, 20 April, we saw a young girl with anorexia standing outside the hospital in Fredrikstad. She had been discharged from the psychiatric ward at the hospital, and was doubtful that she did not get the help she needed. She was only offered a call on the DPS once a week. What she wanted was to get an offer at the Capio Centre in Fredrikstad. There are many such cases where anorexia patients have not been able to use the sheltered and organised treatment offer that the Capio Centre has been able to offer. Unfortunately, there is only one framework agreement with Health East, and patients are therefore totally dependent on health companies being willing to buy places. Throughout the year, the Centre has had free capacity of approx. 30 pst. This seems to be quite pointless for patients without treatment. Capio Anorexia Centres submits these days an application to the Ministry of Health and Health to be approved as a hospital. They have previously applied for inclusion in Free Hospital Choice Norway, but they have been refused the application on the grounds that formal criteria such as a hospital approval must be met. It remains to be seen what will be the answer to the application that has been submitted, but in the interests of patients, we hope that they can now be included in Free Hospital Choice Norway. At present, there is no Norwegian investigation tool for children with eating problems. National research networks in eating disorders, the Research Institute, Modum Bad have received a framework grant for three years from 2006, and that is very good. There is a great need for research into eating problems, both in finding the cause, making the right diagnosis and giving proper treatment There are many conditions that you should know more about, such as: selective food intake, children eating only some foods, children not eating for emotional reasons, children with swallowing problems, food phobia, and some have something called withdrawal. They don't want to eat, drink, talk or take care of themselves. Many of these conditions are psychologically dependent and need good professional follow-up. There is also a need for research into eating problems in adults, which is confirmed by a much-discussed case: Thursday May 3rd, the NRK news showed a 20-year-old girl from Sarpsborg who weighed 32 kilos. She probably has the diagnosis of selective food intake, which is not unknown in terms of children, but most of them grow up. In the local way, we've been able to read about this young woman's desperate struggle to get the right diagnosis and treatment. She does not have anorexia, but is only offered treatment as if she had it. Many people feel that the meeting with the health service is like meeting the wall. These patients don't recognize the ambitions of hospitals, listening to the patient and having a good dialogue. In many cases, there is a total lack of good interaction between the hospital and the patient’s primary contact. Where's the interaction we're talking about so nicely? In recent years, many people have begun to define a third eating disorder. This is overeating disease, with extreme obesity as a common consequence. The overspill keeps food in the body. Some people eat a lot in a short time, usually fat and high-calorie food, while others eat small foods all the time, so that in sum it becomes more than the body needs. Many overspecify go on eternal diet, and some have strict periods between overeating periods, to keep the weight down. Some people go up and down 30 kg, which testifies to an incredible discipline and willpower, but who say a lot about what these people are struggling with. For some, overeating can be their way of making a debut like eating disorder. For others, this is a later stage on the way from anorexia or bulimia. Many highly obese people are now being helped to reduce the risk of secondary diseases such as diabetes, stress disorders, heart disease, high blood pressure and mental illness. On Sunday, May 13, we saw a overweight woman who had been on a lifestyle change at Tonsåsen, who had managed to lose a lot of weight. She expressed strong concern on behalf of herself and a large number of users who feared that they would not receive the necessary follow-up. A successful base stay is not enough to change many years of overweight problems. The assumption that such arrangements will succeed better than any other diet is a close follow-up over several years. Health undertakings have entered into various agreements with training institutions which are now trying to maximise the resources allocated. Follow-up stays vary both in length and frequency, and this variation reflects little the needs of patients. It only reflects the economic framework. Unfortunately, many fear that shortening the follow-up offer may lead to a lack of or minimal results of the initiative. There may be a lot of wasted health bills, but the worst for the patients, who will once again be able to experience the great defeat by failing to succeed, with the physical and mental plagues it can cause. NAV went out earlier this year with an invitation in connection with the extras that were made available to get sick people back to work more quickly. The tonne sauce had planned to offer a separate scheme for health-indicated obese, adapted to the assumptions in the basis of the offer. This proved not to be possible, because NAV requested that those who made the offer should accept patients with all kinds of diagnostics. It will not be easy when some institutions have had to specialise precisely in order to provide specialised services, as health enterprises want. Today, several of the training institutions have high available capacity, while most of the applications for stay are rejected. Eating disorders are a complicated interaction between biology and psychology. Research shows that some people are predisposed to eating disorders through genes and biology. Personality and socio-cultural factors are also important. Recently, there has been a lot of focus on obesity, diet and exercise. When we know that there are many unknown factors, politicians and authorities should perhaps be careful about what signals are given, for the sake of all those suffering from, or at risk of developing, eating disorders. Eating disorders are a serious disease, which in its ultimate consequence can lead to death. A lot of research remains, and health professionals need more knowledge. There is a major unmet need for specialised treatment based on knowledge of all types of eating disorders. The party considers that it is necessary to facilitate the provision of assistance to more people through the use of available capacity by private institutions, by making use of offers abroad, and not least by integrating private institutions into Free Hospital Choice Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1191	Norwegian kids are moving less than before, and the average weight has risen in the last decade. At the same time, body fixation can help children and young people starve to death. The growing generation is exposed to body and beauty ideals where a slim body is associated with success. Children and young people in search of values and identity are strongly influenced by advertising in the media and in other channels. Eating disorders and morbid obesity concern many, both patients and relatives. There is no overview of morbid obesity in Norway, but we know that the number is increasing. Estimates show that about 50,000 Norwegian women between 15 and 45 years of age have a treatment-intensive form of eating disorders. Between 10 and 20 pst. of those who develop eating disorders are men. The situation is relatively rare in young people under the age of 15–17 years, but it is worrying that even some young people up to the age of 10–12 are developing eating disorders. We know that people with eating disorders can have extensive somatic complications as well as the psychological distresses many of them have. So mortality is, as the interpellant said, high. Both hospitals and outpatients have experienced an increase in the number of patients with severe eating disorders. Most people will need outpatient treatment, while a small proportion with serious illness will need hospitalisation. Treatment is provided for eating disorders in all outpatient clinics of the country, both in the field of mental health protection for adults and for children and young people. Patients with less severe eating disorders are treated in primary health care. There has been a significant strengthening of the offer of children and young people in municipalities. This concerns health centre, school health service and other prevention/psychosocial work. In St.meld. No 20 for 2006-2007, the government has announced that the school health service is one of the areas we need to strengthen further. Several health centres have established their own supply to young people with eating disorders, and this is a very good response. In the 2007 state budget, the government has given clear guidance on strengthening municipal mental health. This will improve the supply of people with eating disorders in primary health care and help to implement help early, which we know is very crucial in terms of a good treatment outcome. It is important that the provision of treatment to people affected by eating disorders is holistic and multidisciplinary when necessary. As mentioned above, it is important that the health services in municipalities follow up at the earliest possible stage, so that few develop serious problems that require treatment in the specialist health service. In order to facilitate the follow-up and treatment of eating disorders, cross-disciplinary competence and cooperation between the somatic sector and mental health services are important both in the community health service and in the specialist health service. I am concerned that individual plans are more widely used to ensure a good and comprehensive service offer, and that it also makes clear who is responsible for following up each one. In the 2004 State budget, it was considered that regional health establishments should build up specialised eating disorders clinical units that could offer the most seriously ill treatment. Such units are already realized in Health East, Health West and Health Middle Norway. In Health Nord, they are establishing a clinical specialty unit for children and young people to be located in Tromsø, and one for adults in Bodø. Both shall be completed in 2008. Health South has established a professional network and plans to establish a regional competence centre to address the treatment needs of the very sick. It is up to regional health establishments whether they want to organise services for patients with eating disorders at their own health/treatment establishments or whether they want to buy services from private individuals. The responsibility of regional health establishments means that they must have a clear assessment of their own supply and the needs of the population in the different disciplines. Health East has a framework agreement for the purchase of individual services at the Capio Anorksi Center in Fredrikstad, as the interpellant also had. This service, as I've been informed about it, is used to the extent that health businesses lack their own capacity, or when there are particular reasons to get treatment at Capio. Health East reports that there have been three deadlines for eating disruptions at the Small Stream Clinic, but that the individual deadlines for otherwise have been met. I assume that Health East in such cases evaluates the Capio Anorexia Center or other alternatives, so that those who need help actually get it when they need it. Monitoring by the Social and Health Directorate shows that there is generally good competence in eating disorders at outpatient clinics for both adults and children, but there is a lack of point competence in the field of many scaffolds. Therefore, a national clinical network has been established to enable undertakings and treatment providers to acquire knowledge and competence and exchange experience. Both users and health region representatives are involved in the network. There is also a separate school programme called ‘Cross and self-esteem’ to help improve skills and to establish cooperation procedures between levels of treatment. A new report; Prevention and treatment of eating disorders — Objectives and recommendations for primary and specialist health services shall be sent to the Social and Health Directorate for brief consultation. As you know, last year the Stortinget adopted our changes to the Law on Mental Health, among others. on the use of coercion in the treatment of severe eating disorders. This amendment entered into force on 1 January of this year, and the Social and Health Directorate is now working on revising the guidelines in this area. The Institute of Public Health is now carrying out several research projects to improve the knowledge base. Among other things, they have projects on genetic and environmental factors, the consequences of eating disorders in pregnancy and studies on how women with advanced anorexia have experienced the disease and the treatment they have received. In order to meet developments with an increasing proportion of obese people in Norway, the government is betting on both prevention and treatment. Obesity prevention is ensured through general public health work, but much remains to be done. In 2004 and 2005, regional health firms were given the task of setting up treatment provision for the morbidly overweight. Regional centres with interdisciplinary staffing and offering surgical treatment and/or life-style change help have now been established. Fortunately, several contributors have also established measures for children and young people. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health is now developing national professional guidelines for both prevention, diagnosis as early as possible and follow-up to primary health services. This means that we are building up the knowledge base on eating disorders and obesity treatment in general healthcare, and that specialist services are being expanded. That's why many of us are on the right track to do something more for those who are affected, but it's not very well in this area, all of them, as Giltun's representative has also pointed out in his interpellation. The Ministry has given regional health businesses clear signals that the treatment of eating disorders and obesity treatment is a priority task. Regional health enterprises are following up with large investments for research and for the further development of the clinical offer. However, I believe that we have to expect more people to address healthcare in the future, precisely because it has become more transparent about this type of problem, and because, fortunately, the service provision has improved many contributors. So in other words, the government is very concerned about what Giltun's representative here is bringing up. I was recently a few days ago and visited an offer in Stavern in Westfold, which was very good and which could show good results. So there's a lot of interesting going on, but we have to get at offers that work in all parts of the country. We're not quite there yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1225	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I know from other issues that the Council of State is concerned with the problems that overweight and eating disorders can lead to. Unfortunately, in the case of outpatient clinics, the DPSs, which are intended to treat most patients, there is a large shortage of staff. There is also a great lack of point competence among the personnel on the DPS. So there's a good part missing. Waiting times are also a problem when you have to leave a DPS and receive daily treatment. Individual plans are also important for these patient groups, and it is also important that these individual plans are perhaps a little long-term, so that those entering a treatment offer know what to do over time. The Committee is concerned that these patients should also be given the choice of treatment that best suits them. We know that the private clinics in many cases have an offer that patients want to make use of, an offer that they know others have good experience with. So it's important not only that hospitals themselves choose who to include, and who to offer, but also that patients' views are better taken care of. As far as surgical treatment is concerned, there are some experiences of surgery in the 1980s, and I hope that the government will take with it the experience that shows that a very good follow-up is needed in retrospect. It's not like you can do surgery, and then everything will work out. A lot depends on the patient himself, especially over time. Experiences from the Hospital Østfold from the 1980s show that the entire 20 pst. of those patients who experienced severe psychiatric disorders. 2 pst. He committed suicide. It also appeared that for most people, the type of operation failed in terms of achieving good results over time. Most of them have gone up again -- both what they went down, and so it did. I believe that I have heard that the result of the operations now being carried out is that some of those who lose weight may have other types of problems, such as: problems with alcohol. So there's psychological reasons, as well as food intake, which is perhaps the most serious, and which is really the reason why the disorder is there. It is important to also carry this with you in a treatment perspective and not let go of the patient just after a surgical treatment, or shortly after.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1240	There may be many reasons why people get eating disorders, and I agree with Giltun's representative that eating skills are not good enough for everything. But we're working very hard on it, and I also agree with Giltun's representative that individual plans are very important here, as in other areas, so that people get the help they actually need. I also share the view that it is important to follow-up after a treatment – whether it is through surgery or it is by other means, for example. Lifestyle change, exercise, diet, etc., because it may be in time that the challenges become quite big, and that we then need a system to follow it up. Again to Stavern: it was interesting to see how patients were followed up afterwards, and that's what's important in the long run. Then it's also important for me to say that patients with eating disorders have the same rights under the Patient Rights Act as other patients. It also means the right to free choice of hospitals. It's clear. However, the right to free choice of hospitals applies in relation to treatment centres with hospital approval, i.e. district psychiatric centres. In the case of private hospitals, it is a condition that they have an agreement with a regional healthcare company, which grants the patient such a right of choice. And just to comment very briefly: Capio Anorexia Centers in Fredrikstad, as the representative Giltun among others. that, so far, is not a hospital permit and is not a DPS. I understand that until Capio has notified me that they want to apply for approval to become such a hospital. We have not yet received any such application, but they can of course apply for it, so they know what they have to deal with. I have also had contact with Health East in relation to what I said in my main reply. When time-limits are in place, Health East must ensure that patients in need of help are provided with it, and that they also take advantage of the competence not least of the Capio Anorexia Centres in Fredrikstad. Then it is also the case that the agreement with that centre is to be renegotiated. The agreement actually expires at the end of this year, and it is important to make sure that there are good enough offers for people with eating disorders in this part of the country as well. Now I'm familiar with building up better public offerings in this regard, but there's no doubt that Capio Anorexic Centers have a lot of expertise, which might be exploited even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1253	First, I would like to thank Mr Giltun for raising this debate. Eating disorders affect women and men of all ages, but young women aged 15 to 35 make up the largest group. Among girls between 13 and 25 years of age, eating disorders are the most common mental disorder. Although young people make up the largest group, this is not something that one grows by itself, but a serious problem that most people need help getting out of. Many live their lives without real help. There may be complex causes for some to develop a eating disorder. The background can lie in psychological and social factors, but also cultural factors such as slenderness, unattainable and unhealthy female and large-scale female roles can help trigger a eating disorder. In any case, an eating disorder may be a symptom of other emotional conflicts where control, or lack of control, over the body and food intake should compensate for other problems that cannot be resolved or pushed away by other means. In addition, boys and men more often present a story of bullying. Living with an eating disorder has serious consequences not only mentally, such as depression, concentration problems, anxiety and feelings of shame, but also socially, such as problems in following school education or work obligations, periodical isolation from family and friends, and difficulties in connecting close human relationships. Eating disorders may also lead to physical consequences such as malnutrition, symptoms of deficiency, digested digestion and severe dental damage. Especially anorexia can be a fatal condition. According to the Women’s Interest Group on Eating Disorders, the most common causes of death are cardiac arrest and malnutrition, but also suicide. Out of this, we can draw an important point. Eating disorders are a mental disorder and must be treated as such. But the physical consequences can be much more serious than most other mental disorders. The most serious patients are therefore more likely to be treated intravenously, as somatic patients. Of course, it may be absolutely necessary, but even if you're healing it physically, the root of the problem is again. That's why the interaction between psychiatry and somatics is very important for the patient group we're debating. This interaction has the potential to work better than it does today. There is a strong distinction between psychiatry and somatics, and it complicates the responsibilities of those patients who have a foot in each group. One girl reminded me that a treatment scheme that helps one, not necessarily helps another. Different approaches may also be appropriate at different stages of treatment. In the beginning, strict routines may be necessary, while in the process of improvement, it may be important to have the opportunity to combine treatment with going to school and spending time with their social network. Therefore, it is also important that individuals be given a contribution to the design of their own treatment. A girl who knew that she needed help, and who received the offer of accommodation, thanked no because she was afraid to lose school, while another girl who wanted full accommodation was only offered day care. There may have been technical reasons for both decisions, but eating disorder is a disease where it often takes too much time before you realize that you need help – and when you ask for help, it is important that you feel taken seriously and that you get a job that you feel satisfied with. Then I will also draw attention to the importance of maintaining the point competence that exists in heavy, collective disciplines. In particular, such environments can provide good advice on treatment arrangements for the most ill patients. At the same time, good prevention and getting caught early are also essential. I'm glad the government will strengthen the school health service. Together with the permanent staff member, health care and school health services play an important role in the prevention of various health problems for young people who need to talk and raise concerns about themselves or their friends. Good friends who take responsibility are invaluable. I am glad that the government has announced a waiting guarantee for young people under 23 years of age with mental or drug addiction. I am also pleased that the Department has given regional health companies clear signals that the treatment of eating disorders is a priority task. As both the interpellant and the Council of State were involved, there is a good offer at Capio in Fredrikstad, but that competence is not available to patients everywhere in the country unless you pay for it. It is therefore important to build up public competences, and it is important to ensure that everyone has equal access to the best possible treatment provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1281	I will give tribute to the representative Giltun, who addresses these issues. Although considerable efforts have been made in recent years, there are still gaps in treatment provision, and there is too little interaction between primary and specialist health services. At least there are a lot of patients. Eating disorders are a significant health problem in Western cultures. Traditionally, eating disorder is a typical girl’s disorder, particularly affecting girls in their teens and young women. However, studies show that the proportion of boys and men affected is increasing and that children are more affected than before. As the Council of State also mentioned, very many people suffer from this disorder. In other words, we are facing a major and serious health problem, which requires increased attention. All people are different, and eating disorders are a mental disorder that can have different causal relationships. Therefore, an individual treatment scheme is important. What is needed for the individual developing eating disorders depends, among other things, on: the degree of disease, the factors that have triggered it, and the degree of self-confidence in one's own disease. Getting fresh from eating disorders is a long process, and many may never be completely healthy, but have to live the rest of their lives with a problematic relationship to food. As I mentioned at the outset, much has been done to improve the treatment offer and capacity, as the Council of State was also involved in its contribution. In the Roadmap for Mental Health, presented in 1998, strategies for prevention and treatment of eating disorders were one of the areas of action. In 2000, a separate strategy plan for eating disorders was drawn up containing a number of concrete measures aimed at preventing, increasing treatment capacity, building skills and research. Most people will probably need outpatient treatment, but a small proportion with a serious illness will also need hospitalisation. Treatment for eating disorders is provided at all national outpatient clinics in the field of mental health protection for adults, children and young people. Patients with less severe eating disorders are treated by their prescribers. A major effort was made during the co-operation administration in this area as well. A national food disruption clinical network with representatives from all health regions was established. A national research network was also established to disseminate research and contribute to the competence, prevention and treatment of eating disorders. A treatment unit was established in each health region with clinical competence for eating disorders. Patients with this disorder were also treated in Sweden and England through the ‘Treatment of healthcare abroad’ project between 2001 and 2003 in order to eliminate the queues for such treatment. Funding was also provided for a empowerment project, Body and self-esteem, which is part of the strategy plan. This contributes to enhancing the competence of primary health services. It is very reassuring that the Council of State and the Government follow up this work and expand and strengthen the offer further, both in the specialist health service and in the school health service. In general, the right was in favour of a stronger focus on mental health in the 2007 budget. Among other things, 50 million would be needed. For the purchase of mental health services for children and young people, for example: treatment provision for patients with eating disorders. We have also been committed to increasing our efforts to prevent and improve the assistance of children at risk of developing problems. That is why, as the Council of State was also involved, it is important to expand school health services and the offers to children of parents with drug problems and mental disorders. I am also very positive that the Council of State has taken an initiative to legislate for the right to follow up these children. The right has also taken steps to extend the use of private actors to contribute to faster health care and a greater diversity of services. I believe that we should also seek to use the available capacity in the private offer. In the end, I will come to the situation of the relatives. It's very difficult to be related to people with eating disorders. Many develop feelings of guilt and ask questions about whether they have done something that has caused the disease. Many feel completely powerless. They don't understand what's happening, and they've been given little information about the disease, while being plagued by guilt. It is therefore important that the treatment of persons with eating disorders includes the whole family — parents, siblings, spouses and possibly children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1307	I would like to thank the interpellant for focusing on patients with eating disorders and their lack of treatment. I'm very glad that the Council of State is so clear that this is a priority task for the Government, and I think it's very important what she says, that we need to strengthen the school health service. It has already been done, and we need to strengthen primary health care and health care centres, so that we get in as early as possible, especially because children are such a large, growing group. For many years this patient group has been in focus in the media, and over many years SV has focused on these patients and their need for treatment. This is often about swing door spaces that go out and into health care. It is inappropriate for the person concerned, and it costs unnecessary health bills. Not getting adequate treatment makes you need treatment several times. Many are ill for years, and many have very poor quality of life. There are many who have learned that treatment is not available when they need it, and who have also learned that treatment is not available when motivated. Many also receive long-term treatment that is not adapted to their needs. There are different causes of the disease, and therefore a differentiated treatment offer is needed. Some people have an increased vulnerability to the development of eating disorders, and the triggering cause may be complex and, in particular, crisis-affected. It is therefore important that a treatment provision adapted to the individual is available when needed. These are patients with anorexia, bulimia, food phobia and selective food intake and persons who, for various reasons, are extremely overweight and entitled to health care. Interpellant and I are both from Eastfold, where there have been many things that have been in focus in the media. I have received several enquiries from desperate patients – and their relatives – who do not receive the treatment they want. Many people experience being in a psychiatric ward with different patient groups as very demanding. They experience that they get sicker from it and get more problems with food intake. I have mentioned this on several occasions with the county doctor in Eastfold, and I know positively that they have been involved in several cases. This patient group does not feel free to choose hospitals. Several patients from Østfold have been rejected at the Regional Food Disruption Department on Ullevål because they have no capacity. I also know about examples from Eastfold where children have been on the waiting list for months until they became old enough to be admitted to the Adult Psychiatry Department. It's the economy that's been used as an argument. Patients with eating disorders shall have the same rights under the Patient Rights Act as other patients, including the right to free choice of hospitals. It does not have this patient group in Eastfold today. In the last growing-up period, patients were sent to treatment abroad, which was the subject of the previous speech. The treatment offered there is now available in Norway at the Capio Anorexia Centres in Fredrikstad. Capio has made an agreement with Health East, but is not approved as a hospital and is therefore not a health institution that patients have the right to choose by free hospital choice. Capio Anorexia Centers in Fredrikstad have now applied for hospital approval, and I hope this will give you a right to treatment at this institution in the future. A survey carried out by the Social and Health Directorate in the health regions of the country shows that there is a general competence for eating disorders at outpatient clinics, for both adults and children and young people, on which the Council of State was also involved. However, the lack of point competence in this area is serious. This is a serious disease, which may have a fatal outcome. Many – more and more – children are affected. It's also a disease that now affects both sexes to a greater extent. We need a more differentiated and complex treatment offer. Research, treatment and causality must be pursued. As a midwife, I have met many women who have an extremely poor life situation because of untreated eating problems. I'm glad we have a government council that is now going to put this in focus. We have now also said that children should have a treatment guarantee. I think we need a differentiated and different treatment offer, and then we need to draw lessons from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1322	Eating disorders can be seen as a new common disease in our country. Despite this, very little preventive work is being done. I want to use this opportunity to draw attention to the importance of lowthreshold services and prevention. Many have been affected by eating disorders without being sick enough to receive treatment from specialist health services. They are not sick enough to get help, but they are not healthy either. They're just not sick enough. Many have experienced having to wait for the help they need until they get sick enough to be admitted. It's serious. There are good forces working on prevention and lowthreshold services. An example that I want to draw out is the Center for Eating Disorders in Stavanger. The centre is unique in the country, and has been running a lot of work since 1994 for little money. Throughout these years, the Centre has developed good competence in the field. They run, among other things, with advice and guidance, courses and groups for users and relatives, teaching, thematic meetings, individual conversations and pair groups. Prevention is a very important part of their work. The Centre carries out preventive projects in cooperation with secondary schools, secondary schools and the health sisters in Stavanger municipality. The Centre has a permanent operating agreement with Health Stavanger and seeks support for courses and groups through the Finnish Union for the Study of Disability. They only have 1.8 annual works and an annual budget of 1.4 million. kr. The Centre has had to live with considerable financial uncertainty throughout all years as they depend entirely on positive responses to applications for funds from year to year. This creates an insecure situation for both employees, users and relatives, and it is a crossroads of thought that a centre that is engaged in such an important work and sits on a high level of competence should strive with the economy, as they do. For many years, they have been in danger of being cut off if there is no radical change in the economic conditions they have to live with. A closure of this center will mean a very serious and dramatic situation for all the users of the centre. It's hard to get similar help elsewhere. I hope that the Council of State can intervene and engage in this situation and take care of the good forces we have in this work. It is very important to prevent long-term illness, and centres of the type in Stavanger help users into treatment at an early stage. The type and severity of the disease are assessed and serious ill users are excluded from treatment. It has a socio-economic impact in terms of both economic savings, fewer health messages and fewer hospitalisations. The centre of Stavanger has an enormous potential for expansion. They have knowledge and competence, but they lack resources. They need more jobs and want to give the offer free of charge to their users. With more resources, they will be able to provide outpatient assistance and advice to families affected by eating disorders, as well as to be more accessible both on the telephone and on the Internet. They have many requests to which they have to say no. In order to ensure quality and offering throughout the country, the Christian People's Party believes that a network of such low-threshold centres is necessary in each region or state. This will bring the help closer to those affected by eating disorders. The whole country will benefit from such an environment of competence being built up. I hope the Council of State will take this into account in its further work, as an important supplement, and that she will ensure that such a network of low-threshold offers can be built up across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1340	And then I'll give the honeymoon to the interpellant, who's taken up this problem. Eating disorders affect many and span a very wide range, from lighter problems to serious eating disorders with dramatic consequences for the affected, and not least for their families. There is reason to ask questions about what it is about our culture in almost the entire Western world that causes so many troubles with eating disorders and other forms of self-harm. Why do so many young people and adults believe that the most important thing in our culture is to look good? We can look at the media, we can look at the advertising industry and the general focus on what kind of role models we're dealing with. But that doesn't explain everything. We all know someone who's the frame of eating disorders. Around 120 000 people in Norway have eating disorders. Then I think of anorexia, bulimia and overeating. According to the State Health Authority, there are nearly 40 p.m. Of those with bulimia, drug use problems are also reported. This tells us that many people are affected by disturbances, which also have other major health problems. When so many become involved, of course, there will also be a social problem. Eating disorders are, as we have heard before in the debate here, complex conditions that can contain both somatic, biological, psychiatric, social and cultural aspects. This means that for many of the victims, a broad, multidisciplinary and holistic treatment is required. In the treatment of overweight, we note that the Government is considering introducing the measurement and weighing of children as an instrument. We see that in the left question mark. There is reason to warn against such a development. As far as I am aware, good and long-term methods for the treatment of overweight have not been demonstrated that focus on weighing and measurement. For children and young people, there is better reason to talk about healthy diet and better organisation of physical activity. What characterizes eating disorders is just the sick relationship to weight and self-image. A positive focus on chiselling, and away from the stigmatizing weighing, will, in many cases, have a positive influence on both overweight and underweight modes. Today there are things that indicate that the number of cases of anorexia is about to surface. Some of these states are considered by psychologists to be cultural phenomena that go through cycles. The state is an expression of self-control triggered by mental problems, traumas, etc. Today, the problem of self-harm may seem to be growing. How can we make our young people more robust? Many suggest that a really low threshold supply, a low threshold care service with health care, can capture the lighter and mediate conditions. There are many examples of good results for health nurses in cooperation with doctors, psychologists and possibly family therapists. That's why the Left has a big commitment to the health oyster. Health nurses will be easier to catch those who have more serious conditions, and will be able to show them to more prepared facilities. And we know that early intervention has a lot to say for success.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1356	I would like to thank the Council of State and all those who have participated in this, as I see it as a very good debate – a debate in which we have taken care of all the different types of eating disorders, and where we have had the different issues facing these patients. We have also received a lot of the treatment that exists today. What has been widely agreed is that the treatment offer is not good enough. I also appreciate the fact that the representatives of the members of the government have wanted hospital choice to be free for these patient groups as well. The condition is that the Capio Centre and possibly other training centres, such as Tonsåsen and Skogli, which today have 30 pst. free capacity, obtains other types of agreements and becomes available to the patients who wish to offer them there. It is not easy for individuals to develop and maintain good offers over time with as uncertain contracts as they have today. But it turns out that they're very important contributors, and that very many people just want to get to these private offers. I hope that the Council of State will take this into account when assessing the future offer. Otherwise, it was interesting to hear about the prevention measures in Stavanger. It could also be interesting to hear if there had been any evaluations of whether it had helped, and whether there was a lower incidence of disease there. These are measures that can well be developed elsewhere. And, of course, health care is important as prevention for children. Another thing that can be preventive is that children start learning to cook at school, learn the right diet there, and that it becomes part of this. Today, there's a lot of focus on slimming. If you talk about weighing too much, you can actually turn the whole opposite out of what you want, and lead to a bigger problem, not least psychologically. When we know what causes a lot of eating disorders, you might have to be careful with the signals you give. Once again, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate and hope that this can contribute to better conditions for all the patient groups that have been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1369	I am also pleased that there is a great deal of focus on this important matter, and I take with me the input that has come into this debate both from Rogaland and Eastfold and elsewhere. I fully agree with the speakers who have been concerned about the importance of strengthening school health services and health centres. Because we know a lot about this gradually: when some kids and young people come and say they hurt their stomachs, there are often other things behind them. It is very important that adults are there who can make a conversation and contribute when the youth actually needs it. We also know that there are often causes of eating disorders that should be addressed at a much earlier time. That's why the government is very concerned with raising the number of health sisters in school and in our health centres, and that we get more psychologists and psychiatrists into school, as it is now being tried out in several municipalities, with very good results. So I just want to say that free hospital choice applies to people with eating disorders. But for that to apply, there must be hospital wards or DPSs. With regard to Capio, which several speakers have been talking about, I am not aware yet of any application for us to become a hospital ward. What I'm briefed on is that Capio has applied to participate in free choice of hospitals. But to be that, you either have to be approved as a hospital department or a DPS. Of course, when that application comes, it should be dealt with in the usual way. I have been informed from Health East that they generally do not lack room for the treatment of eating disorders, but I hear what has been said from this pulpit here today, among other things. that people have been rejected by Ullevål. I'll look into that in more detail. I am also aware that some individual patients have an offer in public, but rather want to be at Capio. It has both the duty and the right to assess by healthcare companies, but there are no patients who, by law, as it works today, are entitled to receive some treatment at Capio. However, I believe that the agreement with Capio provides greater flexibility in meeting the different treatment needs of the whole patient group in the region. So again, there are generally few deadlines for patients with eating disorders in the Health East. But I assume that when it happens, as there are some examples, Health East considers the purchase from Capio. I am going to follow this matter closely to Capio in particular, but not least generally also to all those who are struggling with this. Fortunately, many people get good treatment, but unfortunately not all, so I'm taking important input into this matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1386	So the debate is on case No. Four over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1397	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1405	the proposals No 1-3, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 4, by Martin Engeset, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the Right and the Left. 5-8, by Mr Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, by Martin Engeset, on behalf of the Right and Left Amendment No. 10, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 10, from the left, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the organisation of a State test scheme to enable municipalities with poor finances to seek to finance measures for workers over 62 years of age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1436	Proposals Nos. 5-8, from the Advance Party, shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1485	Proposal No. 9, from the Right and the Left, is taken up to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1505	Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, Right and Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the law on social security, so that all over 67 years of age are paid full-earned pension regardless of how much they have in labour income.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1520	Proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1576	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29.ana.ud332e1681	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
