ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e32	The President of the Parliament of Slovenia, France Cukjati, is on an official visit to Norway. He and his delegation are present at the gallery. We wish him a welcome and hope that he will have a good stay here in Norway. He has already had a good stay – at least he has contributed greatly to the development of the relationship between our two parliaments. Welcome! Welcome! Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. [[Applause from the Chamber]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e52	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes and Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e63	One of the most important things in St.meld. No 20 for 2006-2007, the national strategy to address social health inequalities, and in the committee setting, the joint review and understanding of the broad evidence base presented. Here there is a basis for a broad effort in the years to come, an effort where we will need not only the actions mentioned in the Communication. In this connection, I can mention the alerted escalation plan regarding care for addicts, and the dental report, as it is announced, will come within the summer vacation. I can also mention the important issue of habilitation and rehabilitation — which will come — the follow-up to the plans for action in the field of diabetes, coal and cancer, the action plans for a better diet and for physical activity, the further follow-up of the psychiatric follow-up plan and the efforts in the field of mental distress. Some of the main points of the facts we have gone through relate to differences in life expectancy. It turns out that there are differences in life expectancy between groups of short education and low income and groups of vulnerable professions and those representing the average and that there are differences between them and groups of high education and high income. Lifetime differences do not decrease. For example, there is a five-fold risk of the death of low income groups — falling from — 45 to 60 years of age in relation to high income groups. We also know differences in place of residence. It may be particularly visible in terms of the difference between men's life expectancy in Oslo east compared to men's life expectancy in Oslo west – life expectancy may vary by approx. 12 years. In other parts of the country too, there are considerable differences in life expectancy — between the counties and between areas in the individual counties, as mentioned in the report. With regard to life expectancy differences, there is particular reason to be aware that there are particular features of men's health behaviour that we may have discussed a little too little. Without it being at the expense of the weight we have put on women's health behaviour, we need to focus our attention on this, because there is enough danger that men are less well aware of the signs of health problems, and take less care of themselves in some contexts. Another important part of this evidence base shows an increase in lifestyle diseases, especially in some groups. I would like to point out the group of children and young people in eastern parts of Oslo – which has been highlighted in our evidence base, among others. – where the figures show that 24-27 pst. of these have mental distresses. 8-10 pst. of these plagues there is a need to treat them as suffering. Furthermore, it is mentioned that 12–15 pst. in the group of children in low-educated and low-income families, there is a stock of asthma. I can also mention that up to 15 pst. of the children in Norway are severely overweight — obesity — and it is recorded that up to 90 pst. children and young people consume too much sugar. There is also a need to focus attention on some specific health challenges in minority settings. It's clear from our facts that up to 24 pst. have special mental health problems – against 10 pst. in the Norwegian population. It is also clear that among men from non-Western countries, it is about 15 pst. who have diabetes. Among the women have 18 pst. Diabetes mellitus. Compared with the Norwegian population, the average is about 4 pst. among women and about 2 pst. among men. Differences in the disease picture are, in some areas, large among minorities compared with the Norwegian population. This also applies to dental health. Up to four times more problems have been reported in dental health — several cases of dental disease — among children with a minority background compared to Norwegian children. This factual basis, which I have mentioned some important points from now on, is important for the whole of health policy in the future and for what we say in the setting. If there is any disagreement in the setting, I will mention what appears on page 9. A majority of the Committee, with the exception of the government parties, says that they want to focus on targeted actions and that economic cohesion policy has not prevented social imbalances in the health of the population. Government parties also want to focus on targeted actions, but we believe that the broad welfare policy – in the areas of kindergartens, education, work, income, etc. – is equally crucial to mitigate health differences, so here we need a combination. If we go further in the position on the matter, fortunately, there is consensus in the committee, as I see it, on a broad focus on kindergartens, a review of how we can improve the quality of kindergartens, a review of the school to see what we can do to get an extended school day, arrangements for fruit and vegetables and better diet in school. The whole committee is in favour of a free fruit and green system. The government made proposals for free fruit and vegetables to all schools with youth status already in the revised budget. We are going through the dropout in high school, which concerns the Committee, and actions are being drawn up. As far as interventions are concerned, school health services are central. School health services have a far too low level, a far too low presence around the schools in the whole country. The Committee reviews what we can do both in primary and secondary school. We want to strengthen the school health service with psychological competence, and we want to strengthen accessibility. It doesn't help to have a school health service on Monday if the kids go to bed on Thursday. We need a daily availability. School health services need to be brought more into high school. It must not be located in out-of-school health centres, which may be difficult for those who are not actively seeking a health service. There is a need for coordination of measures for children and young people, in particular with regard to mental distress and suffering. School health services should be an important factor in addressing the problems. There needs to be better coordination between the PP service, the BUP – which is the child and youth psychiatry – child protection, family centres, family protection offices, etc. Perhaps we could also need some kind of NAV reform for this part of the service system – a common door, a common coordination, a common thinking in the effort to be able to take better care of everyone. The working environment is also highlighted in the setting. There is concern about the deterioration of occupational health services. It's been 30 pst. reduction in the number of doctors since 2000. Rather, occupational health services should be strengthened when we see the new challenges we face, such as: in the case of occupational health and safety concerns in relation to hearing and noise. Most people who now go to disability, according to the information I have, actually have hearing impairments and problems related to new professions where hearing problems are a major problem. In the case of health behaviour, there is also a lack of consensus in the committee setting. A majority of government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, are in favour of pursuing restrictive alcohol policies. The reason for this is that alcohol is the third major cause of various diseases in Norway. We need an active, preventive and restrictive alcohol policy to address this problem. The same majority will also use the charging policy to influence diet, public health, in a positive direction, and is pleased that the Government has announced new measures in this area and new reviews thereof. An overall committee is also concerned about the change that has occurred, by important drugs, among other things. diabetes and coal medicine, have moved from general reimbursement to individual reimbursement, and ask that we get an evaluation of any social effects of this transition. A central issue in the setting is how we can better detect hidden diseases. It is obvious that many people live with asthma, allergies and carbon without it being discovered early enough. Many live with diabetes without it being discovered yet, and many live with mental distress and cancer. If we detect these diseases at an early stage, we can do a much better job to prevent severe rashes. We therefore need better tools to catch up on some health problems early on. I repeat the importance of the school health service, but also good accessibility for regulars, specialist coverage throughout the country, good detoxification services for addicts, etc. I'm glad it's been a good committee work. There is generally an overall attitude about important efforts in the coming years, which will be followed up in different documents from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e107	A new national strategy to address social health inequalities has become a comprehensive document containing very small commitments for the Government. In most areas, this big message is nothing but a description of reality. Much is good in Norwegian health, but much can also be better. We like to compare ourselves with others, and then we have to remember that few countries, if any, have such good economic conditions to give their own people a socially well-distributed health service like what we have in Norway. Then it becomes a little wonder when the Norwegian version of social health inequalities points to the great importance of our tax policy as a health asset, and when annual profits are close to DKK 400 billion, while a knowledge overview made by the EU concludes that the social health differences in all European countries, including Norway, are mainly due to differences in material, psychosocial and behavioural risk factors. In contrast to the government parties, the Progress Party believes that the social health differences that exist in Norway, apart from psychosocial and behavioural factors, are largely caused by the policies that have been pursued, particularly under socialist governments, through immigration policy, where we do not have the capacity to integrate the excessive number that comes every year, through housing policy, through family policy, through fiscal policy, and not least through health policy. The party to the progress is of the opinion that tax policy and the use of higher components of health services have led many of the social differences to which the notification refers, in particular to minimum pensioners, chroniclers, disabled persons and disabled persons, who do not have the economy to give priority to health, medicine and other health-intensive measures. When the red-green medicaments increase and rise – last year by 140 million. kr – and there is further an increase in terms of 5 pst. As of 1 July, it goes without saying that this affects the socially crooked and the weakest in society. It is also the case that we have a variable hospital offer in the country. People with a high level of education and a good economy have the opportunity to buy healthcare and can avoid queues. Those who have medium or low incomes cannot. In other words, today's system facilitates social health differences as long as we have cows, and the queues escalate under today's regime. It is also a major problem that the healthcare companies’ economy governs patient rights legislation. The Progress Party has on a number of occasions made proposals to strengthen the rights of these laws, so that Norwegian users have an unconditional legal right – and I repeat: an unconditional legal right – to health care if necessary, a right that can be verified by the courts if it is not followed up. The lack of organisation and weakening of family policies in Norway is, in our view, another important cause of social health differences. The proportion of residents living alone in general and signs in particular continue to rise. This poses an increasing public health problem. We believe that family policy needs to be changed in order to allow marriage and stable cohabitation to exercise the social framework that supports both children, young people and adults. It is pointless that a family of four has to pay NOK 300000 more as well as double insurance for the same car that a lone gentleman has to pay. This is called social cohesion policy by the socialists. This is a policy that is directly undermining a family of young children who already run between work, kindergarten and home, and who have too little time for each other. The car costs NOK 600 000, which could have cost NOK 300000, is to be paid. The best thing would be to reduce these charges, so that the family is actually given the opportunity to work out good, safe, social frameworks, with more time for each other. To do something about the tax system in Norway, the solution must be to reduce or eliminate taxes. Only then can we be inclusive. If the population does not have access to the goods or the economy to get the goods, it does not intend to increase the fees, because the distance will then be even greater. It should be obvious to most, but when today’s school system, which is also largely behind the socialists, has a ‘drop-out’ of almost 25 pst. in secondary school, and the OECD, following the evaluation of the PISA study, concludes that 17 pst. Of the Norwegian students who took part in the study, there were so many problems that it could prevent them from continuing their education, the school and educational provision itself, with today’s standard, will be very socially outrageous and create too many losers. The promise of knowledge must be followed up: focusing on knowledge and learning, and we must have curricula with clear objectives of competence, a strong emphasis on basic skills such as reading, writing and billing, freedom of method and a historical level of competence for teachers, physical activity, like one hour a day, fruit and vegetables, no tolerance for bullying, and order and discipline must be given priority. In our view, the approach to social cohesion in the school sector is that all individuals should have real equal opportunities. We do not want to reduce the distance between high-educated and low-educated people by taking measures that limit the individual’s ability to use his or her skills or talents. That's how we're not all the same, but we're all unique. Furthermore, both counselling and school health services must be given priority. School health services need to become more accessible and a regular offer that equates physical and mental health problems. The notification refers to major health problems related to immigration environments in the east of Oslo. Overall, this is a consequence of a naive and misguided immigration policy over many years. This policy, which has largely been supported by the socialists, has today led to a social subclass in Oslo which, of course, with government policy has greater mental and physical health and lower life expectancy. Today’s ghetto formations must be counteracted by other measures. More widespread housing, Norwegian language teaching and teaching in Norwegian social sciences must be put in place. Immigrants must be required to participate in the labour market, and the marriage of siblings and the 24-year-olds must be prohibited in the event of detention, in order to stop this. Denmark has already achieved this with good results. In addition to awareness campaigns to strengthen healthier nutrition and physical activity in general, and in the east of Oslo in particular, action must be taken against those sections of the population who have shown a much higher incidence of diabetes. The Progress Party has repeatedly put forward proposals to strengthen the diabetes plan, research and curative treatment. We have done the same with regard to coal. Unfortunately, none of the other parties have supported our proposals. We have also made proposals for an ADHD basic research centre added to the University of Oslo. This is also a growing problem, but no one has given us support. We have also made suggestions to strengthen dental specialist services. Unfortunately, the government's policy here, as in so many other areas, becomes a tumultuous rhetoric, but without any economic follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e141	Allow me a slight untimely heart attack first: Had I been aware that socialists are so dangerous, I don't think I had slept well at night – and it had increased the health problems in Norwegian society. Therefore I intend to continue to sleep well at night. There are some possible sources of error in a document like what we are dealing with today. It is a document which is to a very great extent used by statistics. Statistics are useful for many things in this world, but at the same time it is a dangerous exercise. Statistical data surveys can be carried out almost without limits, 24 hours a day. The danger is that it is time for rapid faults, namely that the figures at the same time tell us something about causality. In most cases they don't. When one of the major tabloids in Akersgata uses side up and down to tell people about the difference in health status between the states in this country, for example. between those living in East-Agder and West-Agder, it could easily tempt people to the simple conclusion that if I move across the border, the prospects are much better. If you identify that between towns in Oslo is the difference in life expectancy then and so much, it also tempts you to conclude that if I move to the city that has the best numbers, my health problems are solved. There's clearly pure fault endings, simply because data itself doesn't tell anything about what's causing what. They tell even less about what measures are suitable to address the problems. The problem in this area, as in other areas, is not the differences themselves, but the differences are symptoms. It is probably not a problem that statistics show that people with university education, if you are also male, have the prospect of living five years longer than the corresponding age group of men without university education. But it is not given that the problem would be solved if we made sure that everyone received university education. It's simply that the statistics can't help us at all in making a clear diagnosis of what's causing what, and it can even less help us to figure out the appropriate instruments. To take another concrete example: when it is demonstrated that diet and the development of dietary habits in our culture lead to an overgathering of e.g. Obesity-related problems in children, it is tempting to conclude that this is the fastest way to remedy the use of the tax policy on food. All experience shows that the charging policy is almost never accurate and almost never leads to the results you wanted it to lead to. Nor is it clearly stated that saying that then public pay for free apples to all children in school is the right way to prioritize resources if you want to face the problems. Social medicine really tells us about a much larger problem, that what makes people get different life cycles later in life, is highly related to whether the combination of parental background, social background and school services leads to success in what is the primary purpose of the school, namely to acquire knowledge that is needed in later parts of life, in working life, etc. It has far more long-term health implications. The main recruitment factor for drug problems and for what leads people into marginalised adult social situations is that they fail in their schooling, partly because they are not so lucky that they have a stimulating environment behind them by adults, and partly because the school fails to give them the right challenges at the right time. My point is that contexts are far more complicated than a simple accumulation of statistical data can provide answers. I remember a few years ago hearing a talk from one of our leading medical professors who presented the latest research data on cancer, which is one of the major public diseases in our part of the world. It was a very interesting lecture in which he presented research results and especially those related to genetic conditions. In particular, research has made progress — identifying what genetic factors mean for disease risk. When he had finished it, he finally took a little art break, and then he said, "I'm always hitting people who ask me what can I do to avoid getting cancer." And to that I only have one answer, he said, you have to choose your parents carefully. It's, as you know, a rather demanding exercise. We simply have to bear in mind that there is a whole range of completely fundamental health differences associated with genetic dispositions, and we cannot manipulate them through health policy measures, at least to a very limited extent. We can meet them through remedial measures, and there medical research plays an important role, but we cannot eliminate them. That's why I think there's also reason to throw a little look back in Norwegian political history. As late as the mid-war period, Norwegian policy was good Latin, across the difference between right and left, that social engineering should enable us to produce the perfect society, where there should not be social differences at all, for all that could be planned through appropriate political measures. One of the policy measures was the sterilisation of people who were not thought to be suitable for reproduction at all. Clearly, it would be a very effective health measure, in the long term. But today we're not inclined to buy that idea, fortunately. I think we simply have to initially turn down the level of ambition a little bit for what it is possible to do using political measures. It is not possible to construct the perfect society through policy measures. Nor is it possible to erase all differences between people, and that may not even be desirable. But what is possible and desirable is, of course, to think of a preventive form of health policy, which can help to eliminate important causes of disease that destroy the lives of very many people – not only for individuals but also for their immediate relatives. It's possible. It is also possible, through targeted medical priorities, to make sure that we use the resources where they provide the best results for most people, and that we do not assume that we are binding up ever greater resources in ever more marginal offers to those who have the most from before. Let me finally expand the perspective a little bit: if you see this not only on the scale of the Kingdom of Norway – we are now once not alone in this world – but put it into a global scale, because it is only when you discover the real differences between people in today's world. The differences are dramatic. Then it's a cross of thought for me that in the Western, overdeveloped part of the world, we stand to use more and more resources to guide the human life cycle through technological instruments. To put it a little simple and at the top: first, we're using a lot of resources crazy to prevent fertility from working in the normal way of life. Then we use even more resources to make it work when it suits us that it should work. It's a cross of thought that we collectively, excuse the unparliamentary expression, are so stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e164	I want to give tribute to the Government for having presented two very important messages in the last year, which address problems we rarely discuss in a systematic way. With St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007,... and no one was left, and St.meld. No 20, as we are debating now, the Government takes note of the fact that Norway is a country with increasing social inequalities that are systematic, that is generation-wide and that is reproduced. This is despite the fact that we have developed a relatively strong and good welfare state, that we are once again identified with the best country in the world to live in, and despite the fact that policy has been characterized by an equality ideology for many decades. Some might argue that this has rather been about an equality rhetoric, at least in later years. I think that many people have a notion that everyone in the North has about the same opportunities, that freedom of choice is fairly equally distributed, and that most people have it reasonably well, after all. Many might have been more than shocked if they were aware that men on the west side of Oslo live on average 12 years longer than men on the east side. We find social health differences almost no matter how we measure our social position, and almost no matter what health objectives are used. Social inequalities in health are not just a poverty problem. Social medicine and general Steinar Westin have pointed out that poverty rhetoric, which has often been prominent in political debate, conveys a picture of the social inequalities in health as a marginal problem that we best resolve by means of targeted measures. But, he says, research, on its part, gives best support to a model that shows that social health inequalities have increased throughout the population, as a health gradient. It's been said once that the trick you can do to avoid becoming a lunatic is to become a professor. The chance of ending up in Norway is 30 times greater for those with primary education than for those with higher education. Social inequalities in health form a gradient through all income, vocational and educational groups in the population. Doctors live on average longer than teachers, who in turn live longer than craftsmen, who in turn live longer than cleaners. A health-promoting policy, aimed at the whole population, based on the idea that everyone should have equal opportunities, is the best way to go to reduce social inequalities in health in the broad strata. This is about justice. We cannot manage to reduce health differences if we believe that good or bad health is just a matter of individual lifestyle choices. Of course, if we smoke a lot, move a little, or eat unhealthy things, it's up to us to some extent. But at the same time, there is a chance that people, for example, will be able to do so. start smoking closely related to social background factors such as income and education. The chances of each one taking the right health choices are not evenly distributed among the population. Social structures in society are co-determining the choices people make. That's why we also have a collective responsibility to organize society in a way that makes it easier and closer to people to make the right choices. Equally important is the need to create a society that prevents poor mental health, drug problems and health problems such as alcohol and alcohol. is associated with social exclusion or difficult growth. Childhood is very important to what kind of health we get later in life, actually more important than we were aware of. For this reason, it is also incredibly important that the Government do everything it can to provide enough good and cheap kindergartens and active and visible child protection. A good childhood lasts a lifetime, while a bad childhood can do lasting harm. A particularly tough childhood can give 30 to 50 times greater risk of heart trouble, drug abuse, depression and adult-age carnage. This shows the large ACE study, which includes nearly 18,000 American women and men. Foreign studies among women who claim to have experienced various forms of abuse or abuse as adults have shown that, in addition to this experience, these women are very likely to have two relationships in common: firstly, they have many different health problems and life problems; secondly, they have also experienced abuse, abuse and neglect as a child. The cross-generational effect of women’s violence experience and subsequent health problems is now very well documented. Unfortunately, research on boys and men is much less extensive. But the ACE study from the United States, to which I referred, also includes men. This study shows that growing-up conditions with violence and intrusions are far more widespread than we like to believe. In the United States they were very surprised that the number was so high, not least because the participants are mainly white, well-trained people from the middle class. Many participants who had experienced abuse, care failure or abuse as a child had a history of extreme obesity, drug abuse or smoking. We will probably have a similar study in Norway in the near future. We need to use the knowledge we now have to create a health care system that more effectively prevents health problems and reveals cause conditions. In addition, we must focus all our energy on protecting children. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee asks the Government to use the knowledge we have about the relationship between a tough childhood and its health problems to ensure that the link between injuries and disease becomes an essential theme in health education and other relevant education, as well as that we are going to review systems and procedures to ensure that children get caught up when they have difficulties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e183	The Christian People's Party is pleased with the big message about a national strategy to smooth out health differences, especially because an improvement in the state of health has not benefited all groups of the population equally. Through this big message and the broad connection to Stortinget, we have also received a good follow-up to the work that was started by the previous government through St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003, prescription for a healthier Norway. The reduction of health inequalities between social, ethnic and gender groups was one of the objectives of the ‘Recept for a healthier Norway’, which came from the Bondevik II Government. The message stressed that new bets need to be targeted at deferred groups or geographical areas in order to smooth out social health differences. Equal policies for all are not appropriate when it comes to achieving better health for all. Public health policy in Norway has been based more on average conditions than in the absence of, among other things. working life. It is of great importance that a searchlight should be corrected for postponed groups of their special health problems and adapted to preventative agents. It must also be of concern that the economic policy pursued over several decades has not hindered the development of lopsided social relations in the health of the population. There are significant social differences in the population's health status, despite Norway's extensive universal welfare arrangements. As the Christian People's Party sees it, the strategy to reduce disparate social relationships in health needs to be based on targeted action against groups that are affected by poor health. The Christian People's Party shares the government's goal of improving living standards for those who are most difficult in our society. A broad political plurality agrees that the most effective measure to get people out of poverty is to provide work for several of those who are out of work today. Through different types of labour market measures, many are helped to find regular work. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Government of the revised 2007 national budget wants to cut action by over 106 million. kr. This deeply regrets the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government when it determines that the capacity of the school health services is too poor to allow a sufficient number of people to catch up with children and young people with problems, and that this supply must be strengthened. It is positive and necessary for the Government to go in to strengthen the school attendance. The Christian People's Party looks forward to the alert assessment of the situation today, and of what should be capacity and content in the service ahead. In this context, a particular emphasis should be placed on strengthening competence in the prevention and detection of mental distress and suffering. However, the Christian People's Party lacks more concrete measures regarding what the Government will do to strengthen the school community. Measures as a minimum time per year student, permanent annual health check of health nurses and health nurses, major interdisciplinary services and greater access to the school services, and measures to enhance the competence of those admitted to the school services should be considered when planning further school initiatives. It is both interesting and rewarding to listen to, among other things. Mr Inge Wohnung. But there's a comment that I want to make here. There are some simple things that should be easy to understand, among other things. in the field of drugs policy. When we look at the rough spot, we know that price and limited availability should be simple tools to join. Of course, when it comes to charging policy, one can discuss what benefits a person receives, but it is clear that an active charging policy contributes to delivering positive results. That's what scientists say. I am therefore pleased with the plural comments from the Government Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party in that very area. Finally, I will be able to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party in the vote, and the proposal where we stand with the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e202	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e205	Public health in Norway is good. We live a long time, and we live longer. But the figures show that there are big differences at the same time and that there are major health differences. The Central Party supports the Government's clear objectives in the strategy put forward, including: says that one should work towards: reduce social disparities that contribute to reducing health inequalities in health behaviour and the use of healthcare targeted efforts for social inclusion development of knowledge and cross-sectoral tools; The centre agrees with the assessment that there is a clear causal link between education, income and health, and we therefore believe that income bias as an instrument will lead to smaller health differences. Key instruments are to ensure that tax systems contribute significantly to a fairer distribution of income, and on a broad basis also to implement measures to eliminate poverty. Access to kindergarten and to a good public school — where the individual student is seen and where the day-to-day school is organised — is essential to balance differences. But the school system is unfortunately not able to smooth out the social inequalities, despite the fact that everyone formally has equal rights. In a report on equivalent Norwegian education, the OECD points out that Norwegian school lacks strategies to follow up students when it is seen that they are following. The OECD report further states that there is a widespread lack of information on students’ progress, unclear and low operational descriptions of what can be expected from students at the different stages, and that a monitoring tool has not been developed to identify students who need additional help. Here, I think maybe some of the most important steps are in our school system. Where the family or parents do not follow up — and where one knows that parents do not follow up — the school must have strategies that can in a way replace it the parents cannot provide those students with a poorer starting point from home. The school is currently sedentating too much of the differences. It is well documented that parents’ educational background and living conditions are largely passed on to their children. This will also have a significant impact on health differences. How we live will affect our health. The government’s objective is to reduce differences in health behaviour. Here, diet, physical activity, smoking, drinking and other health practices play in. As far as diets are concerned, the Government through charging and pricing policies will contribute to cushioning. Sunny goods must be affordable for all. Fruit and vegetables are, as I said, introduced in high school from the fall of the year. More physical activity at school, measures to limit the availability of tobacco, and the proposal for a ban on the visible presentation of tobacco products, I believe, are important. The government has put the school health service in focus, and it emphasises that there is a long way to go before the capacity is good enough. It is good that the Government looks at changes in the regulations of the Training Act to ensure that cooperation between the school health service and the health centre is strengthened. Other lowthreshold services, such as a health centre for young people, are also an important tool. In terms of targeted efforts for social inclusion, work is important. This is why the Government has as its goal, among other things. to reduce the proportion of adults with poor basic skills from school — even as I said about school instead — to give more opportunities to get into work and improve the availability of health and social services for this group. Here, NAV plays a crucial role as an instrument. NAV shall coordinate and provide a comprehensive offer to persons in need of special organisation. A prerequisite for helping this group of people, who have fallen out of work or lack of work experience, is in the opinion of the Centre Party that it is possible to qualify for employment through systematic and structured follow-up. Here, NAV plays an important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e244	The left would like to stress that the population of Norway, compared to the population of other countries, has a very good health. The left will, however, stress that the provision of welfare must always be based on respect for the integrity of the individual and, as far as possible, on the desire and needs of the individual. We believe that welfare policy is about giving people equal opportunities and about giving priority to those who need it the most. This point, in the view of the Left, is important, and when it comes to health policy, the Left will give more priority to those who need it the most. This requires re-priorities and better interaction between different parts of the healthcare system. The left is pleased that the Government has a goal of reducing health differences. Of course, such a goal is also left-traced. But I think we have to be so honest that we recognize that there will always be health differences. The point must be to identify the differences in health and then to introduce the forces to reduce the unreasonable differences. It is of course very unfortunate that there are major health differences between Oslo west and Oslo east. It's not sustainable, is it? There is an identified problem, and then we need to take action to reduce these significant health differences. The left will point out that the discussion related to today's theme should also have a principal ice spot. In principle, the main issue concerns the nature of our individual responsibilities for our own health and the responsibilities of public administrations to reduce health inequalities. The left believes that there is a need for political governance to ensure such freedoms for general personal freedom as full employment, fair distribution of income and safety against needles when health or working capacity fails. The problem arises when public authorities go too far in the desire to raise their own citizens to a healthier life. The left believes that all politicians should reflect on when public powers go too far in interfering with the individual's freedom, even when it concerns health. Better health depends on a lot of factors. The organisation of physical activity, the organisation of walking and cycling roads and charging policies linked to health-promoting dietary products are some important factors. As other speakers have said, and as the Left has agreed, charging policies are a way to go when we think about health promotion. The factors that I just mentioned, these three things, we can influence. So they can all be important agents in the fight to mitigate social health inequalities in our country. Both the situation in this matter and the debate today – with some exceptions, we might say – have shown that there is a fairly large deal about at least understanding the reality. Maybe someone has a little bit of a different explanation, but how the fact is today, we're pretty much in agreement. At least we're some people who say that there are social health differences in Norway today, and that we have to try to smooth out these social differences. When there is such a broad consensus, we should only be able to deal with measures that can give a proper boost to reducing the social health differences in our country. Yes, of course, what is needed is concrete action and not just good party speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e267	As several speakers have already pointed out, people in general have seen very good health in Norway. But, as many have also said, behind these numbers there are large social inequalities and unfair health differences. Those who have the best economy and the highest education are also the freshest and longest living. For example, more people have been concerned with the difference that we have. Here in Oslo, between the winner in the west and the cases in the east, where there is a 12-year difference in the life span of men. It is, of course, totally unacceptable, and also the fact that the age of life in Finnmark is shorter than elsewhere in the country. It's also challenging that the social differences seem to increase rather than decrease. We have to recognise that in some areas, even in one of the richest countries of the world, we have a layered society, where the most privileged economically, are also the ones that have the best health. There are health differences that are unfair, but there are also health differences that can be addressed. This is the whole background that the Government has presented this matter and wants to put in place a broad and long-term strategy to balance social health inequalities. I'm glad that there's a majority that seems to support this. I must say I was a little surprised when I heard the spokesman of the Progressive Party, the representative of Fredriksen, from this pulpit had a tiger with accusations about who was responsible. As I then understood, it was we who belong to today's government. There were accusations of a faulty immigration policy, and concerns about the possibility of buying cars of the order of 300000 – 600 000 kroner. With respect to reporting, I believe that many of the people we are talking about here have quite different problems than buying cars for 300,000, 400,000 or 500,000 kroner. We know that there are many reasons why people get sick. Genetics, of course, play for many diseases, life-style also plays for some, and simply luck or unhappiness. For some, all of these three things work together. It is also the case that those people who do everything right: who exercise, eat healthy, do not smoke and who drink minimally, can also become seriously ill. But it does not relieve us of responsibility. Each of us also has a significant responsibility for our own health. And then most people will probably think that lifestyle is going to be something we choose for ourselves, for example. how much we touch, how much we smoke, etc., but lifestyle is not just self-chosen. In a number of areas, our choices are actually driven by economic and social factors that we don't have any particular control over the sea. It concerns smoking, physical activity and diet. Because the systematic differences in health are due to the unequal distribution of resources in society, it must also be the responsibility of the community to influence this distribution in a more fair direction. We know that there are many reasons for these differences. There may be fundamental economic conditions, but not least growing-up conditions. There may be risk factors in which a living or working person is living, and differences may also be influenced by health behaviour and the different use of health services. We know a lot about young people's living conditions and growing-up environments that affect education and what professional opportunities we have in later life. It could in turn affect the health of an adult. In addition, we also know that access to physical activity, healthy diet and fresh air has a direct impact on the health of later life. Therefore, it is not only useful to focus on a single action or in a single area. Long-term and targeted efforts are required in many areas at the same time. That is why the Government has set itself the goal of balancing differences in these areas. The important thing is that you have a job to go to and a salary to live on. It is also very important that everyone has good growth conditions, that the working environment is good, that health behaviour is good, that fewer people smoke – and, it is healthy to move. It is important that everyone has equal access to our healthcare system and goes to the doctor when you need it, and social inclusion is important to mention something. Of course, it's important that we have something focused on those who need it the most. However, the government believes that it needs to be combined with general welfare schemes for the whole population. We think it's wrong to stigmatize some groups. It can also work against its purpose. For this reason, it is important that we have both general measures – above all – and specific measures aimed at those who need it most. Good and safe growth conditions for all, fair distribution of income and equal opportunities for education and work are fundamental investments to reduce social health inequalities. This is why the Government will take action to balance social differences in learning and, not least, to strengthen the school health service, which has been discussed by several speakers. I believe that this is a very important low threshold offer. It is too bad that we now have an average of one health sister per year. 1000 students. It goes without saying that it's too small. We know that many children and young people are struggling with different problems – problems they may not be able to talk to their parents or friends about. Then it's important that there are adults in school. More psychologists should go to school. We should have several open evenings in healthcare, so that young people can go there when they need help, and do not have to order an hour and maybe an hour in a week or two or three. We also want to expand our offers to children and young people with mental problems, and we want to strengthen child protection. The commitment to an inclusive working life will continue, and we will work for a healthier working environment in sectors with high work environment pressures. As I have said, smoking habits and differences in diet and physical activity are important causes of social inequalities in health. It is often related to the overall life situation of people. But we also need to focus on the reasons that are often behind it. We have to realize that healthy lifestyle is also about resources and profits. It's also about us as authorities, as the government sees it, having to make it easier to go from unhealthy to healthy habits. The government wants to make the healthy options more accessible by, among other things. the use of more means of price and availability. We believe it is very important that school students have access to fruit and vegetables. And it's not like – at least if I understood the representative's salary correctly – that it doesn't have any effect. Yes, it is. For example, in my home country, Hedmark, it turns out where they've tried fruit and green, that the kids who eat fruit and green at school, also eat more of it outside school, which they didn't do before, and they eat less of what they shouldn't eat. It produces good effects and reduces social inequalities in health. That's why it's very important that we now get fruit and green in the school. In the budget for this year, we agreed, as the representatives know, to change the levy on non-alcoholic beverages, so that drinks with added sugar and sweeteners are taxed. The government wants to assess several measures that go in the same direction. As we know, we have also recently sent to the hearing a proposal to introduce a ban on the visible presentation of tobacco products, and we will also consider introducing a system for monitoring the sale of tobacco to minors. We know that people's health is primarily affected by issues that are not related to the health sector. However, fair distribution and accessibility of healthcare are important to reduce differences in health. We know that a social bias in the distribution of health services in the worst case can help to increase differences. We are very concerned that healthcare should be accessible to everyone, regardless of background, economy, place of residence and sex. The government's aim is to manage to raise the rest of the population to the same level as the groups that have the best health per. today. This means that we must work for a more even distribution of all conditions that affect health – fair distribution is also good public health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e303	I support the Council of State that there should be fair and social cohesion in health. But we also see that only in the last year has the government increased the medicaments and treatment by 140 million. NOK, and we now get an increase for fixed – the fraction goes up by 5 pst. from 1 July. Does the Council of State consider this to be a fair and social cohesion related to the group of chroniclers, the minimum pensioners and the disabled, who are getting more difficult access to the necessary medicine and treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e310	There's obviously a lot of ways to describe reality. To describe just a small part is not to describe the whole reality. We've made it very clear in the Soria Moria statement that our goal is to reduce the excess and keep them at a low level. We have, as the representative Fredriksen knows, in the 2006 state budget, reduced equity participation 2 from NOK 3 500 to NOK 2 500. It means something to reduce social inequalities in health. The fact that it is now free for kids to go to the doctor until they are 12 years old – before it was seven – means something to reduce social inequalities, and the fact that the 50-lap of physiotherapy on blue prescription has been removed also means a good deal in relation to this. The government has also proposed, and it has been introduced, that a person should no longer take a proportion of people who have drug problems when they are visited by health services — before they had to pay self-interest when someone came to help them on the street or at home. That fraction has been removed. All of this is a contribution to just reducing the social inequalities in health. So we're on the right track. We're going to have a further review of prowess. But in the case of 5 pst. in the fixed medical scheme, it is because it is counted from July onwards. Had it been for the whole year, it would have been 2.5 pst., which has been the usual for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e319	It's a little exaggeration that it's this government that has discovered fruit and green – it's probably humanity's known before. The question is whether it is a public task to use the resources to pay such schemes for all the parents who can afford to pay it for themselves. It is a priority issue that is difficult. But an even more difficult priority question is discovered when one sees that in Norway we adhere to an agricultural policy that ensures that the prices of healthy foods are artificially high, and relatively much higher than in most other countries. It brings me to my question. For me, it is a cross of thought that we are presented with a message like this prepared by one department of medicine, the Ministry of Health and Health. All the respect for the Ministry of Health and Welfare, all the respect for the Trade Committee in the United Kingdom for health and care, but is it not a crossroads that we do not draw up this by involving all the other departments which have at least an equal share in creating the problems created here? And won't it be a good idea that when the Government will produce such a document in the future, do you do it in a completely different way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e326	I do not know what the representative is saying ‘in a completely different way’, because it is the way that all the relevant departments are involved in this work. And that's also how, as the representative of Wage knows for sure, the Government has already presented several messages in different areas, for example. in the field of education. The government has announced that it comes with its own message about dental health, and it comes with a matter of intoxication. We have presented a lot in relation to cancer, diabetes, coal, etc., and we also come up with a matter of rehabilitation. Of course, all of this has to be seen in a context. So to the question of fruit and green. I understand that the representative is not excited that Norwegian schoolchildren will get free fruit and green and try to ridicule it, that they have not discovered fruit and green before. That's not what this is about. What it's about, is whether you're willing to do more than fine party speeches to talk about that one will reduce the differences in Norway. One of the grips we think is to make sure that even those kids who don't have parents who can afford to buy fruit and green get access to it. We believe that the school is an important venue for balancing these differences, because we know that fruit and green matter for health. You also lay the foundation for healthy eating habits, which you can take advantage of for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e333	Lesbian and gay people stand out as a group with special health challenges. It is important not to exaggerate this tendency to social inequalities in health between gay and lesbian as a minority and the heterosexual majority population. Research and mental health prevention work among lesbians and gays should be based on the fact that lesbians and gays most have very good lives. However, an over-representation of mental disorders, suicide behaviour, violence, drug abuse and HIV/AIDS has been documented in this target group. This type of bias when it comes to health represents a major challenge. I know that the Council of State and the entire Government are concerned about this issue. What I would like to challenge the Council of State is: What more concrete measures does one consider towards this particular target group?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e342	The representative Hareide addresses a very important question, which I also think there is too little attention around. It is true that the representative points out that there are challenges in parts of this group. Of course not everyone — there are differences there, as among everyone else — but there are challenges that we are going to take seriously. The fact that some people report suicide attempts – and that some people even do it – because things are difficult is, of course, very, very challenging. What we know about increasing HIV and AIDS must also be taken seriously. We are now also going through the new reports that have come into this area. We cooperate closely with the organizations, including the organisations of the lesbians and gays. There shall be a new meeting of a national body on this subject next week. I want to take the tape from the representative Hareide. We're adding up to follow up on this in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e349	In this setting, the Social and Health Directorate is working on new guidelines for weighing and measuring at health centres and in the school health services. The purpose should be to ensure that an attempt is made to identify an infant’s overweight or underweight at an early stage in order to introduce preventive measures. The left, together with the Right and the Advance Party, has a note that warns against introducing weight and measurement as an anti-obesity measure. We think there are many indications that this only seems stigmatizing and has little health effect. My question is: will the Council of State go in to measure and weigh in health stations and in the school services?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e358	I have not taken a position on that. I'm taking with me the input that comes from different sides, and I also hear that there's different perceptions about it. As the representative points out, a working group in the Social and Health Directorate is now investigating this, and I have asked it to make a proposal. Here we have to assess the benefits and disadvantages. It is clear that it can be beneficial if you introduce this into a completely normal control. In this case, it is important to examine it when you are at the health centre, or through school, in order to know more about how this develops over time. But I also take it very seriously that many of those who are overweight say that this can work stigmatizingly, and that it is possible to figure this out in other ways. It is also important to take it as part of those who are struggling with eating disorders, says that this will not be a contribution for them to make it easier. All of this will be part of the assessment of the Government and I will do before we take a decision. So the answer is that we haven't taken a position yet. We think about, and we listen to the points of view that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e367	I don't think apples are the most important question in the context. The reason why I allowed myself to point out the relationship is that we often fall for a political rhetoric that leads people behind the light. We're talking about free fruit and green. We're talking about free learning material, free this or a hint. There is nothing in this world that is free! It involves cutting into the community box, which means we use money that could have been used for other purposes and could perhaps have been better used for other purposes. Every time we put in place new universal mechanisms that make the community pay on behalf of the large part of the population that is highly affordable, we commit the common resources of society. That's where the real challenges lie. Don't the Council of State agree? When, for example, Have we decided to spend tens of billions of dollars politically to build kindergartens over a low shoe, an excellent purpose, and spend correspondingly large amounts on subsidising the price as far down as possible – do we then think through whether this is really a priority that solves the most fundamental problems in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e379	I hear that the Right and the Government of today have slightly different opinions about what we should use the Community's funds for. Of course, it costs money to build kindergartens, introduce fruit and vegetables and other schemes, just as there is also a cut into the community's resources when the Right and the previous government went in to give considerable tax relief to the richest people in this country. It doesn't help to reduce the social differences in our country. Yes, this government believes it is proper to use the community's funds to build kindergartens, so that everyone can afford to be in kindergartens, if their parents want it, at a price that is possible to pay. And yes, we think it's the proper use of community funds that those kids who can't even afford to go on their birthday to their friend because they can't afford to buy birthday gifts and can't afford to buy the fruit they should have eaten, get this at school. We also believe it is right that they should not bring notes into their hands or in any other way say that they cannot afford, so they have to get that fruit other than those who have parents who can afford it. The answer is that we believe that this is a proper prioritisation of Community funds, and it helps to reduce social health inequalities. Then we get to live with that also some children among those who have money for it get free fruit and green – because we achieve a very important goal, we believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e387	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e392	Let's see. First of all, it may be funny to point out that those who introduced a test scheme of fruit and vegetables in school were the previous government – the Bondevik government. The objective does not necessarily have to be to mitigate social health inequalities. The goal must be to raise the level of those who have problems. It doesn't solve any problems lowering it for those who have good health and good income today. And then you have the same problem. I think it's important that we focus on what's really the problem: how we're going to manage to raise those who have problems initially. It'll also be smoothing out. The Council of State also stated that it was established in the Soria Moria Declaration that one should try to get lower self-esteem and keep them low. Well, it actually doesn't help when you do something else in practical politics. What has been done in practice is that the excesses that the Council of State has pointed out have been lowered have been financed by increasing the other excesses. So you actually don't make this easier for the individual. As far as fruit and vegetables are concerned, it's a little strange that we have an agricultural policy where we've made so many protective arrangements that it actually gets prices up, so that consumers and those who have lower incomes have trouble going to the purchase of these healthy foods. I think what might be the most important thing coming out of this message is that we have the debate. This means that, in the long term, the debate can also be brought out to the population, new solutions can be put in place in terms of how we can participate and ensure that those who have difficulties in their health are better able to do so. I think it's important that that's what we focus on. I think that if we're going to do that, we also have to do more on the research page just to map: what are the different reasons? It's quite right that the representative on the payroll was in the middle of it, if we look at the statistics blindly, it can get a hell of a lot weird out of that part. So I hope that you put emphasis on research here now, that you also focus on facilitating the situation for the individual, so that the individual is better equipped and better able to take care of his own health. If individual citizens do not focus on their own health, it will not actually help how much the public is doing. I hope, at least, that both research and to facilitate the situation, so that the individual can take more care of his or her own health as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e409	Fair distribution is good health policy. The health of the Norwegian population is good, but there are still differences between different social groups. Health services must be good, easily accessible and resource-intensive. Contributing to more people getting into work is probably the best way to prevent poverty and balance differences. Most people have a residual ability to work, and I'm glad that the red-green government has invested so much to give all groups a job offer. There are many who are affected by disease that require them to go to medicine all their lives. Proper and effective treatment of disease and health disorders requires very often the use of animal medicinal products. Total costs per year patients for treatment with medicinal products may vary from a few hundred dollars to several million dollars per year. years. The ability and willingness to pay for medicinal products varies from person to person. But common to all is that the cost can at one time reach a limit on what the individual user's economy can bear. Some chronic diseases such as MS and rheumatic disorders require expensive medicines. These medicines are absolutely necessary for the patient to live a life with less pain. Most recently today, there was a look at the news of a person who was affected by MS, who had received medications that delayed the further development of the disease and made life a little better to live. It was a problem, however, because when the patient was hospitalized, the hospital didn't have the economy to let him get these expensive drugs. We can't have that, and I'm glad that the health and care fraction in Stortinget wants the possible social effects of moving drugs from the general reimbursement scheme to the individual assessment scheme to be carefully evaluated. I know that the Minister of Health has been concerned that everyone should have access to the necessary drugs. That's why I ask the Council of State to look at this and make sure that those who need it get the necessary drugs, which they should also be entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e422	Norwegian public health is good. The health situation in Norway has improved and is at a high level compared to most other countries. But the big news of equalising social health inequalities shows that behind these averages there are considerable differences and that good health is disparate between social groups in the population. While the health status in Norway is generally good, the health differences between different social groups in Norway are greater than in many other countries in Europe. It appears that the improvement in health over many years in Norway has not benefited all social groups of the population equally. Children in low-educated and low-income families have 70 pst. higher risk of developing chronic diseases, and in vulnerable urban areas in the east of Oslo, about 25 pst. of the mental distress of young people. In Western Aker city in Oslo, average life expectancy is among men over 80 years of age. In the Sagen area of Oslo's eastern edge, basically just a few kilometers from West Aker, average life expectancy for men is 68 years. Similarly, there are significant differences in life expectancy between the counties of the lower part of the scale, Finnmark, East Agder and Eastfold, and the counties of the upper part, Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal. I agree with the representative, Wohnning, who suggested in his statement that the solution is not that everyone should move to Sogn and Fjordane, even though the representative Ludvigsen can certainly confirm that it is a fine state to live in. At the same time, I think it's a causal link, for example. between income and health, so that a fairer economic distribution will also lead to smaller health differences and better average health. In any case, this paper goes directly into the heart of my commitment as a politician, because it so clearly shows that everyone is born with different starting points in life, and that not everyone in the long term gets access to the same possibilities. As long as there are so many differences here in our own country, it tells me that we still have great societal tasks ahead of us. Large groups of chroniclers and disabled people get e.g.. Double problems in everyday life – they have to live both with their health challenges and with scarce financial resources. Many problems among children and young people can be avoided by active prevention. The representative of Bohemia pointed out in a good way that action such as health stations and school health services plays a crucial role in reaching all. Number of children per person Annual work in the school health service varies widely between municipalities and urban areas. In many places there is only one year’s work in the school health service per year. 800-1,200 primary school children. That's why I'm glad the government will strengthen the school health service. Then we also have to try to reduce the social differences in health behavior. Schools, leisure clubs and sports teams should put in place measures to ensure that expensive equipment, fees and specialities do not prevent children and young people from participating from less prosperous families. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Government for submitting this big message, and I agree with the overall strategies that the Government there says.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e446	Good health policy is all about prevention, strong distribution policies, kindergartens, fruit and vegetables, physical activity – that is, everything that has been mentioned here. I'll talk a little bit about those who've gotten sick. We've discovered something that maybe we have a long time, too, that it's better to be rich and healthy than sick and poor. What is it that most distinguishes those who are sickest? One of the characteristics is that people are not at work. Then you can discuss what's chicken and what's egg -- whether you get poor and sick by not having a job, or whether it's the other way around. I don't know. I'm sure it can work in both directions. A study has been carried out at the University of Oslo, at the Centre ‘GIV – Inclusive Welfare Group’ at Ivar Lødemel. They have gone into and looked at the assumptions of those who were involved in the first poverty package, the assumptions they had for getting into work. The conclusion of the report is that people living on social assistance are different from the normal population in many areas, but mainly because they have major health problems and because they do not get help with them. So we who are very concerned that getting into work is one of the most important things to ensure ourselves against poverty, have to think about that part of what we are going to do to long-term recipients of social assistance or others who are outside the labour market, first and foremost must be directed towards their health problems. As the Social Committee did not deal with the AVI communication very long ago, a unanimous committee pointed out that the follow-up to the individual must be linked. What we see today is that there may be follow-up of interventions, but not health follow-up or rehabilitation — or rehabilitation, but not follow-up of interventions or empowerment. A unanimous committee said that you have to get a complete grip on this, and then there actually has to be better cooperation between the different departments. The Labour and Social Committee went so far as to say that coordination and its follow-up should be added to one place, for example: to NAV. It's a topic we need to discuss, but we can't help but say that if we're to succeed in getting more people to work, people need to get help with what's the basic problem: that those who have major health problems are actually getting less help than others. And then finally, there's a very big difference between occupations. In some professions, people get sick faster than others, and the characteristic of these professions is that there are low-paid women's girls, they're the ones who get worse. It's a serious situation, and it's a problem we have to solve in a better way than what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e466	It's been eight years since the Bondevik I government released the Equalization message, a big message with four strategies for equalization: a softer workline, a more social housing policy, a more finmasked social security network and better public services. St.meld. No 50 for 1998-1999, as this message is called, had – in the same way as St.meld. No 20, which we are discussing today – a fact base as a basis. Under the heading «Development and distribution of the key living conditions in the population», a subtitle, «Health – trends and inequalities». Already then, it was found that regional health differences were greater within Oslo than between counties. So it's eight years back. The message being processed today provides up-to-date information on this field and the difference between children, that is, the different start that individual children can have, as we have known for a long time. At that time, concrete measures were proposed for improvement, as is now the case. There is one significant difference, and today we recognize that there is a poverty problem in Norway, and that today we recognize that the differences have increased. It was not a good tone in the year 2000 when the Equalizer message was processed in Stortinget. I'm thinking, today we have a much greater chance of doing something. Of course, it is the responsibility of individuals for their own health. Of course, there are limits to what one can achieve through political decisions. Of course, what is expressed by good intentions in the vote and in the debate today can only be words. But one should have another possibility for follow-up. In the message, there are broad, concrete actions from today's government in relation to both the schooling and the smoothing of inequalities, prevention, better follow-up of those who are ill, and soften others. Then I'm optimistic, because it's a saying that says, 'Where it's will, it's the way.'
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e479	The representative Nesvik drew up an important problem, namely the relationship between supersampling and lifting those that are at the bottom of the other side, which he thought was right. This has to do with instruments. If the main objective is to raise those at the bottom, the solution will be in need testing and targeting. Often, the instruments will be financed by taking from those at the bottom of the ranking, because the same parties believe that targeting is the trickle, which is also critical to tax-funded welfare schemes. An important goal will be to prevent those who do not need it from getting. We've seen that it can often be more important than making sure that those who need it actually get. On the other hand, is balancing the objective, as we believe, the answer is tax-funded welfare schemes, which are often universal, and which aim to improve general public health. I would also like to comment on the contribution of the representative Fredriksen from the Progress Party. After all, he gave Inge Wohnung almost sleep problems here instead with his scare propaganda about socialist politics. I want to ask Fredriksen if he can't admit that the Progress Party is responsible for a policy that will increase the social health differences, for example. the lack of environmental policies leading to climate problems and pollution, which hit the poorest. The free flow of alcohol strikes socially and hits children most. Increased tax cuts, especially with the removal of property taxes, are a gift package for the richest and will bring greater social inequalities. Today we can read that the OECD warns against another side of the Progress Party's policy, namely privatized school, ranking schools and so-called free school choices, because it leads to social inequalities. A school policy to smooth out social differences and promote equal opportunities is of great importance to society as a whole. We can't sit and watch a quarter, and sometimes as many as 40 pst, of the kids in high school drop out, or 400,000 adults don't have basic literacy skills. The government is addressing both the drop-out problem and so many are not caught until it is too late. The OECD points out in that report that it is a paradox that the time before school age, perhaps the most important for individual child learning, has been the most neglected and underfunded part of the education system. Raising kindergartens is one of the most important things we can do to give all children equal opportunities in life. Then I will finally comment on the question of the correctness of using the community's resources to finance universal schemes of fruit and vegetables, the maximum price in kindergartens and free learning material. I think it's important that we, who are well-paid politicians, often with middle-class backgrounds, try to put ourselves into what it feels like, especially for children, to be the one who always stands out, for example. when they can't afford school books until the scholarship comes, and it becomes very visible who in the class can't afford them. Putting on the glasses to understand the value of universal welfare schemes, being like the others, can be particularly useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e494	The most important condition for getting on with what we're discussing about problems here is that we all recognize that it's difficult. In medical science, social medicine is the most difficult of all disciplines, because the context is so terribly difficult to establish with reasonable certainty. It is even more difficult, on the basis of scientific knowledge, to identify the appropriate instruments for achieving the desired objectives. It's useful that we recognize. It's actually hard. A well-known Norwegian politician said that everything is related to everything – and that is as true as it has been said. But policy is more sectoral today than it has ever been. The shots between the departments are closer than they've ever been. The struggle for resources takes place in every government – like all previous governments – as a fight between the ministries, which state council can secure the most in its field. Then we have to be willing to face up to the fact that we are in a situation where many of the measures we are taking in one sector are affecting the effect of the measures we are spending on another sector — yes, in many cases they even do more than hit the whole effect. That's where the challenge lies. There is nothing wrong with the desire for universal welfare schemes, but we have to recognise that they have a price tag, and we have to be willing to ask the question: is it the use of the community resources that gives the best counting for those who really need it? The answer to that is in most cases no. When Prime Minister Bondevik in the last period was honest enough to say in a newspaper interview with the Evening Post that he regretted that the government had not managed to get to the point of helping the really disadvantaged, those sitting at the bottom of the table, the head of SV, the current finance minister – there is a certain irony in the world – said that it only shows that the Prime Minister will not, because this is simple as a foot at home, if you want. Now the Minister of Finance has been holding the key to the common fund for two years, and there is nothing to suggest that she would rather – if you were to follow that logic. We should be honest enough to admit on both sides of the political middle division in Norwegian politics that the kind of rhetoric that Kristin Halvorsen served against Prime Minister Bondevik is, as Lars Sponheim rightly says in the evening post today, suitable for one thing: undermining people's respect for politics and politicians and undermining the credibility of politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e508	Norway has been designated the world’s best country to live in for several years. In a new study, we are also assigned to the world's most peaceful country to live in. It must be like a Soria Moria for those who see it from the outside. In St.meld. No 20, the National Strategy for Equalising Social Health Differences, gives us a good insight into the challenges we face – challenges in many areas of Norwegian society. We must be proud of the achievements and goals we have achieved over several decades. We have built this welfare community stone by stone. At the same time, we must also be impatient. We're going to be critical of the systems and things that don't work in this society. What has characterized the Norwegian society is the welfare society, and year after year we have been assigned to the world's best country to live in. Social democracy's way of building a society is to have strong welfare services that are socially universal for all who live in this country: child welfare for everyone, sick pay if you get poor, payback if you go too long, a strong popular pension, a good pension, etc. There are also kindergartens for everyone, with low kindergarten prices so that everyone can afford kindergarten – which makes children build bridges between different cultures, and where social relationships develop. A strong and good and inclusive public school is also important, where different people from different cultures are given the opportunity to develop their different abilities in a strong community, and a high school that is free for everyone, where you have free textbooks, where everyone has the opportunity to take a vocational education. Then we see that there are many who fall out of high school. We must have a strong focus on them. Having a job to go to, having a salary to live on is important both socially and economically. It is also a strong public health service that takes care of us when we need it. I don't think it's possible to adopt out of these challenges, but we can take different measures, such as: The Lørskog model, where you have invested in a school with physical activity, help for homework, good food, fruit and green. It's about giving the kids good habits. Good habits are not something you have. Good habits must be learned. They must be tedious and tedious. In this way, we are involved in prevention in order to achieve good public welfare. The good foot theory is important, and I think it's about getting better in the areas in which we're already good, and recultivating what we've created for years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e521	Smoothing health differences is the theme here, and it requires action that takes those who need it the most. I'm saying we don't need such a discussion. We don't need parties, we don't need fairy tales, we don't have to be reminded of Soria Moria. We have to be certain that we need to find measures, and I perceive the Council of State to agree that we really need to give priority to those who need it the most. But then she also says that in addition it must be focused on general tools. I'm not dissenting about it either, but I think the order must be as I suggested in my main post: we have to give first priority to those who need it the most. One general instrument is the charging policy. I agree with the Council of State, and I believe that charging policies can be used. But I think the authorities should have had a clear charging policy, which clearly favored, for example. fruit and green. One way would be simply to set VAT at zero for fruit and green. Then there's a clear one. So one could have 25 pst. VAT on unhealthy goods, e.g. goods containing a lot of sugar. I would like to ask the Council of State whether, although it is another department which is presumably responsible for this, it will contribute to the transformation of the VAT regime in such a way that it favours health-friendly products such as fruit and vegetables?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e531	I was about to say that you'll have hope that others than yourself will decide whether you have good enough balls. I was thinking of talking about things other than dream chatter -- I was thinking of dealing with some realities. When the Council of State says that the charging policy in the case of cars is not worth taking into account what we are talking about, it is in fact that the notification clearly states that the charging policy is important. When we know that a family can pay NOK 30 000 a year to use a car, and when we know that a family can come in a situation where you have to pay NOK 300,000 more in fees than a lone gentleman – there are many wise people who have said before me that most things are related, but this also relates, because a family has to give a big priority – it is clear that one can go beyond the other. One thing is at least certain: it's not socially fair. No Marte Thorkildsen challenged us on our school policy. Clearly, today’s school policy creates losers. In Finnmark we have over 40 pst. ‘drop-out’ in secondary school. If there's anyone in this room who thinks that with our policy it would really only be private schools, you're fairly wrong. But when you stand for a policy where you don't even want to open up private schools that make the public school have something to compare with, and when you even take this away, I think with today's policies it's very difficult to get a school that doesn't create losers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e542	Differences create both poor health and poverty. When I hear the representative from the Right today swinging to moral heights when it comes to the debate on poverty, I have to say that I do not know whether to laugh or laugh. I want to say – and I believe so – that no government has done enough for distribution policies and the poorest. No government has made it now, but the government of which the Right was a part, and for which this government took over, I believe there is no need to swing to any moral heights in terms of distribution and poverty policy. This government has done twice as much as the previous government did. In addition, we know what the Right would do if they were to continue in position -- it was to increase the differences even more, so that there would be an even bigger gap between those who have the most, and those who have the least. Then we can wonder, what kind of societal gain would we have from the fact that the money was distributed that way? But that's probably the way it's always been, that the Right believes that the poor work more and better if they get less, while the rich are completely opposite and provide more if they get more. I don't share that view. I am absolutely convinced that we are more alike than that – yes, we are amazingly alike. Getting sick or getting poor can hit any one of us. It can affect me, and it can also affect the representative's salary. We have no guarantee against it. At that moment, we should actually have had a policy that ensures that we can all have some good living conditions. That means you're dependent on having a good distribution policy, and I agree with Prime Minister Stoltenberg when he says that it's more to share if we get better at sharing. Sharing better allows more people to take advantage of their abilities, to get better health, to use their creative power, and not least to live a life where you can keep your sea respect. Unfortunately, it is in this society that people are respected according to their economic status. Regrettably, it also brings shame with some diseases, but not with others. There are important changes in attitudes that must be made and that I want us all to take part in. I respect that the Right may have a different view of the distribution policy, but trying to present it as if the Right's policy for greater differences would lead to a society where there were less problems with health, or that fewer people were poor, is simply to come up with a fairy tale that is at least not fit to convince either me or the people. It is possible to do so at the Justice National Meetings, but it does not work this way in practice: differences are increasing, more are becoming poor, and more are becoming ill by a poorer distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e557	What makes me take the floor is the last post of the representative for pay, where he – and he did so in his main post – asks questions about the universal arrangements that we have in our country. I want to ask Inge Wohnung, because he is so critical of the universal arrangements, they cost so much: Take the child's back, for example.: Will the representative pay the income grade the child benefit? Or take the self-interest stake, which is approx. 1600 kroner: will he rate income? When this government wants to introduce new universal schemes such as fruit and vegetables, etc., it is because we believe that it works, and because we believe that it counteracts stigmatisation. I understand that the representative of the payroll has problems getting the accounts to go up when someone is constantly trying to reduce the tax. But some of us actually pay our taxes with joy and want to make it the best thing in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e564	The representative of Wage said that ‘there is nothing to suggest that she would rather’, with reference to the Minister of Finance. Well, the finance minister will, and the government will, and I believe that over a year and a half we have proved that we have done more than what the Bondevik government was in the vicinity of during its period, in order to reduce the social inequalities. First of all, we celebrated the fiscal policy. We prioritised Community solutions through a large-scale investment in the local economy, and we have not been returned to a krone either from right-hand-run municipalities or, for that matter, advanced party-driven municipalities or other municipalities. That means we've got a much bigger commitment to care for the elderly and others who need it. That means we've got a bigger stake in hospitals and schools. We in this government have presented many issues to do something about preventive health work that means something to reduce social inequalities in health. Here the previous government had many possibilities. It was this government that presented the first diet plan in our history. We've done a lot in the case of booze – we've spent 350 million. kr more. We have removed the excess of some of the weakest of those in need of help in the care of the drug. We have proposed that they should also be subject to the Patient Rights Act and be granted equal rights to all other people in this country. I was last yesterday and opened the country's first sequestration unit in the prison in Bodø, which is supposed to help those who are in prison and have drug problems, to get a better life and work out even when they get out of prison. This is about practical things to make life better, that help reduce the inequalities that we actually have. Then we have put forward many other strategies – for cancer, diabetes and coal. We're about to come up with a dental report, and there's a lot of other things on the way. I'm on behalf of the Government proud that we're actually doing something, and it should just be missing. I also agree with the speakers who say that general arrangements are what we should primarily bet on. We don't want to go back to a society where some people had to stand by to get what they were obviously right, but that they didn't get because they had a different background or had a bad economy. Finally, Mr. Fredriksen's representative. Yes, car charges are an important matter. But set up against what we're discussing today, when we talk about people who don't have money for food, people who can't afford to go to the doctor, people who don't have a roof over their heads, and kids who suffer from it, and kids who can't afford books, and who don't get the fruit that kids need, I mean respectfully to report that car charges of 300,000 – 600 000 kroner have very little to do with the debate on reducing social inequalities in health.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e586	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e589	Now we're obviously inside the exercise that this government has developed into a championship, that's to boast of itself. No Norwegian government has been in the vicinity of developing that exercise to such a championship. If I'm the one who triggered the race this time, I'm sorry, because actually it's a rather unnecessary exercise. There's no one who believes in it anyway. It is precisely appropriate, as I pointed out, to undermine the credibility of politics and politicians to continue this exercise. The representative Karin Andersen said in an attack of honesty in a newspaper the other day that she was ashamed on behalf of the government she represents, because it has not gotten it to date. That's a very precise description. But then I also thought it had dressed Karin Andersen's party if her party leader had admitted that the criticism she addressed to the previous Prime Minister was unjustified. It would have been better than that she blows it away by starting to run the usual plate of tax relief. Because it has little to do with this matter to order.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e596	I would like to give the representative a salary right on one point: this is a difficult and complicated debate. I am aware of a concern as to whether all the good words that come to the theme differ from the action that needs to be taken. Now Horats says: «Keep your mind simple when life is difficult.» Then it is possible to ask some simple control questions: Is it more difficult to go to the doctor when the property increases, as happened repeatedly under the previous government? Is it more or less poor when one cuts against the next poorest? Is the school health service going to be better with a bad community economy? When 5 pst. by the Child Protection Notices from the Kindergarten and 3 pst. from the health care system, is it important to strengthen the need for kindergarten and health care to give their messages? Would a restrictive alcohol policy mean more or less drug users? And finally, when it comes to fruit and vegetables: is it so that Inge Wohnung and others from the Right and the Progress Party at all have not recorded that there is a difference between the eating habits of our school students, and that it actually has health and well-being to bet on that kind of offer? So finally, is it really so that the community economy has nothing to do with this debate? So there is a debate about reducing differences in health and, in another recent report, differences in education. In fact, strengthening the community economy is about strengthening efforts in the Community sector. Then there is a difference between a government and a party that has priority no. 1 to propose tax relief, and a government that says: Now we draw in these proposals on tax relief to the best bets in the community, to ensure less differences both in school and health, and to ensure inclusion. I'm very surprised that not everyone sees that there's a difference in approximation here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e605	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e608	It is a shame that it is poor in a rich country — yes, it is a shame that it is poor in the world. I feel that shame, but I actually think that there are many who should share it with me, because everyone knows that poverty leads to both exclusion and ill health, which we have talked about today. As I said before, no government has done enough, but the government that is now sitting has done an incredible amount more than the government that set before, in this respect. When Bondevik says that he regrets that he did not do more for the poor when he was in government, I think I know a little about the reason he did not succeed with it – the reason is perhaps closer to the party that the representative represents, than he likes to admit. But I think that some of the things that might have come out of this is that it turns out that when we talk about this, it hits and cheats a little bit, and it seems to me that the policy has a certain propriety, that many actually get tired and upset when we talk about it being poor in Norway, and that we need to work harder with it. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] It has this government, but I hope we can end this pointless debate about doing twice as much is much less than what the previous government did. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e615	The President will ask the representative to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e618	With regard to the level of the debate, and whether or not the debate becomes pointless, I would say that the contribution of the representative Karin Andersen has at least not made this much easier, it is quite obvious. Today's debate has almost been influenced by the fact that one has tried, I kept saying, to expound its manifestly bad conscience because one has not been able to deliver according to the expectations that one has created. In this debate, the SV and the Central Party have at least contributed clearly in this direction. Let's do a couple of things: the representative Meltveit Kleppa was in the department. She said in her post: the previous government increased the excess. Yes, this government has also done so, increasing the excesses within the healthcare system. So says the representative Meltveit Kleppa A, she should also say B, and don't try to explain that you have actually gone in the exact same direction. Governments were also involved in action plans for diabetes and coal. Yes, it's actually very important that this government has put them in place. The problem is that there has also stopped it. The action plans have been put in place, and so money is not included. I would also like to remind you that it is actually the Progress Party that has taken the initiative for these plans, both relating to coal and diabetes. So we're glad that it's been followed up, and that you've drawn up these plans. So what to do with the tax and tax system, in particular, is linked to the healthy eating habits and foods mentioned here. Yes, this government has actually increased VAT on the same food that is said to be so important that the public and those who have poor advice will have access to. When you talk about fruit and vegetables in school, and you talk about the universal arrangements, then why do you distinguish between schools, between the number of years that each school offers? So if the school includes the youth, they have to get fruit and vegetables. But if not? No, then we have to wait, she might come back to the next budget to see if we're going to get money for it. This debate, on the part of the Government, or at least of some representatives of the government parties in the Grand Duchy, has been permeated by a lack of conscience and a lack of ability to implement what has been promised to the population. That is regrettable, because the debate has in no way led us in the right direction, namely how we should be able to help make things better for those who have the most difficulty. We politicians should also take on board us, make sure that research is put in place, make sure that the excesses go down, make sure that hospital treatment improves. For example, summer - related maternity wards can be mentioned. This government has promised closeness to food departments. Then it becomes pointless when the government is unable to stop nearly ten maternity wards from being in summer. There's a big difference between what you promise and what you do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e632	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e635	I should like to thank the leaders of the Committee for his contribution to the lifting of the debate. When it comes to property, I just need to be informed that it is clear from the big message that it is the government's policy in accordance with the Soria Moria declaration to reduce the ownership of health services and keep them at a low level. The government announces that they will consider changes to the ownership arrangements with the smoothing of social differences as an important aspect. In the 2006 state budget, capital increase 2 was reduced from NOK 3 500 to NOK 2 500. The element of physiotherapy on the blue prescription that was introduced was drawn away. And it will no longer be the property of drug addicts who are sought out by outpatient teams from an outpatient clinic, on a proposal from the Government. The difference between the Progress Party and today's government is that we have a real insolence in terms of smoothing out the differences and securing the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e644	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e647	Now the representative Meltveit Kleppa is running again. But in the 2006 budget it was the current government that introduced the abstinence of physiotherapy. Then you arrived in the summer, and then you found out that you had so much to say that the same government had to take away again the fact that it itself introduced. In addition, there has been an increase in the self-interest associated with medicines on a blue prescription. Furthermore, this government has now also made sure that the specialities associated with medical visits go up by 5 pst. from 1 July. It's not useful to refer to the Soria Moria statement, that we have an intention to reduce the excesses, as long as we do the exact opposite of practical policy. There are practical policies that apply to those who have difficulty, not what is stated in a Soria Moria statement. Because then all the parties can refer to their game program and what you actually want to do. This government has gone out and promised something specific. This government has not delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e658	To the debate on prob lems: I note that the Progress Party will not hear that the Government has actually proposed, and has been adopted in the Stortinget, significant reductions in the prob lems in the areas that not least the representative Meltveit Kleppa was in here on the whole. But that's true. In fact, it means quite a lot when equity participation 2 is reduced by NOK 1000, on a proposal from this government. It means quite a lot when we have reduced the proportions of some of the weakest among us, some of the drug addicts who are on the street, for example, and the count that not least the representative Meltveit Kleppa has pulled up here. Let's move on. Among other things, we need to: have a review also of users of low-economic community services, and see if there is anything more we should do there. But I think it's a little strange when someone here is trying to create the impression that it's the first time in history that there's a slight increase in the proportion of the excess, for example. to go to doctor. As far as I know, it has also been for many years before this government took over. So when we talk about the 5 pst. increase, it's because it's done in half a year and not a whole year, which is normal. Then it'll be, if you count it in a whole year, 2.5 pst. It's been common for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e665	There was an important indication of the representative's salary in his first post as he noted that the context is far more complicated than a simple presentation of data on health differences can show. But I don't agree with the next step that wages had in their argument, where he drew genetic relationships and other, and concluded that we have to turn down the level of ambition in terms of what we can achieve with policy measures. I think the most important thing is to focus on how we can create good enough measures. Then the discussion that has now arisen about targeted schemes becomes important. The discussion of fruit and green in school is illustrative. I can only draw out how I experience it in the everyday life of the kids. There is a big difference when it is that all the kids can sit together and eat school lunch on the exact same basis, and when it is that there is someone who has paid and someone who has not paid – that you have the same basis for fruit and vegetables. It is the same when, hopefully, hot meals are applied in an enlarged school, etc. It helps to create public health and create the common sense that here we are in the same boat, here we live the same life, when we have such universal arrangements in terms of fruit and green. I hope the Government will soon be able to move forward in implementing the scheme and extend it to the remaining parts of the school. I agree with the representative Nesvik – and it is also in the extension of what I drew from the pay statements – that we need to go into the context of the statistics. We need more research. That is the work that the Government will announce in the future, as regards a number of the matters that I also went through in my main post. This is where the thorough review of these issues and measures will come about. But when it comes to going behind the correlations, I want to mention the living environment in relation to low-income groups, and short-term education. When we are about to focus on stepping up environmental policy here in the country, it is also important to focus on local pollution. For example, in the Oslo area, there are a couple of hundred thousand people who are plagued by dope. There are noise pollution associated with road traffic. There are carcinogens associated with road traffic. So measures that will reduce these pollution, in relation to car-free centres, in relation to the transition to environmentally friendly cars, public transport, bicycle paths, etc., are fundamental health policy measures that we may not have stressed enough in the debate here today. I would also like to stress that people in Norway should know that we have a publicly co-financed healthcare system that is at the top of the world, where one should not sit and desperately search the Internet and turn its own wallet to travel to some other offer abroad, but could rely on our common public health system, which is perhaps the most fundamental in balancing social health differences and feeling health security. I am delighted with the annual reports that the government will be included in the government budgets, on how this works.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e680	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3348]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e696	We are discussing today the position of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on proposals by representatives from Robert Eriksson, Kenneth Svendsen, Øyvind Korsberg and Jan-Henrik Fredriksen for a change in the pension scheme for fishermen, so that fishermen who have been disembarked before the age of 60 are refunded a premium to the pension scheme for fishermen. The Committee refers to letters from the Minister for Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen of 26 April. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, is recommended in the light of the fact that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol. The Progress Party shall promote its proposal in the form of a note. There are minority proposals in the vote, similar to parts of the case's heading. The Committee recommends that Document No: 8:53 is appended to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e707	The way the scheme operates today with regard to the pension scheme for fishermen who become disabled before the age of 60, creates a social imbalance between those who are disabled and those who are unemployed. It is therefore interesting to note the letter of reply from the Council of State on 26 April of this year, where, among other things, the Council of State. pronunciation: ‘We are now in the middle of a pension reform, where the entire pension system in Norway is under assessment. The size has, among other things, adopted that it will be possible in the future to withdraw old-age pensions from the population’s pension from 62 years of age. That 2003 selection deadline is based on the fact that the fishing pension scheme will continue to be an early retirement scheme for current population benefits where no old-age pension can be provided until the age of 67. This premise will no longer be present when a new age pension is introduced into the population. It will be necessary to adapt the statutory early retirement schemes for both seafarers and fishermen to a new age pension in the social security system.» On the basis of this, the Progress Party expects a reasonable adjustment to the scheme, so that those who are disabled are also reimbursed in the same way as those who have not achieved 750 premiums. The Council of State further states in that letter: ‘I request that the Government be not required to examine some aspects of the pension scheme for fishermen now.’ I must honestly admit that I am a little curious about that very wording, because this is not about any major investigation, but rather about adapting today's legislation so that the legislation becomes more fair. There is little doubt that today's legislation is perceived as being very unfair to those who are injured before the age of 60. So, you have good health and you want to get to work and maybe keep up with a income of about 1 million. kr a year, as has been the case in recent years for some with a ring-flake, you will be paid a fishing pension at the top of your salary when you reach the age of 60. The Progress Party naturally believes that this is fair and reasonable, all the time paid into the pension scheme. But on the other hand, if you get exhausted from being a fisherman, hurt or become chronically ill, so that you get dissatisfaction and really need the fisherman's pension more than ever, then you're in a situation where you lose it. It is this Progress Party that seems to be unfair to the present system. When the Council of State in its letter of 26 April this year states that ‘We are in the middle of the process of pension reform’, it is, of course, correct. However, it will still be three years before the pension reform comes into force. I have a big problem understanding that worn-out fishermen have to wait for at least three years before you can find out if you are going to have to pay back what you paid for when you are unemployed. Thus, the government chooses to maintain today’s social disparities between disabled and employed rather than to make changes to current legislation, which will in any case apply until the new one comes into force. I take up the proposal from the Progress Party, which is referred to on page 2 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e737	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e740	I will not extend the debate unnecessarily. There are many reasons why policies should be pursued. One of the reasons is that you actually want to try to do something about things that are clearly unfair. And there is little doubt that for those who do, this is perceived as socially very unfair. It becomes too stupid when people who become disabled before the age of 60 do not have access to a pension fund to which they themselves have paid. I can't believe that the rest of the magnificence doesn't see this social bias. What you're saying is that if you have to correct a social imbalance, you have to wait three years. In the previous debate, members of the government parties were very impatient about correcting the social health differences we have in Norway. It would have been great if this were a common attitude of the government parties, but I see that when you come to this matter, and have the opportunity to correct social imbalances, the will is not present. Unfortunately, there will be many tumultuous, big words.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e754	I would like to make some comments, especially in the light of the last article that was made. I guess we're all in politics because we want to do something about what we think is unfair. Now we're talking about a long-term arrangement. We're talking about a system where the people involved have been involved in investigations and assessments of the scheme a number of times, as late as 2003 in connection with NOU 2003:8. From active fishermen to pensioners. In other words, the proposal proposed by the Progress Party has not been promoted by the working group itself. When we talk about a system that is particularly unfair, we might as well say that instead of talking about a system of premiums, we're talking about coordination between different benefits. It's a question that embraces far wider than exactly this one profession. I think it is a good argument when the Council of State in its letter says that this is a scheme that is valid until the age of 67, which is quite soon a non-retirement concept, and that the scheme for fishermen, like other statutory early retirement schemes, must be part of the review that you will have in the wake of the new vesting system and the new times of retirement in the future. There is a problem which should be taken into account and which is also stated in the letters of the Council of State, namely that an amendment proposed by the Progress Party here would also help to weaken the funding base of the entire scheme. This is perhaps one of the reasons why fishermen themselves have never taken up a proposal like this when they have participated in investigations into the issue. I also think that there is a slightly broader assessment of the consequences of introducing a new principle that means that the premium of insurance will eventually be refunded. Moreover, it is not given, if you are under-retired as a fisherman, that you are not going to need the scheme, because things can happen. The disability benefit may fall or be reduced for some reason. What if you say there's no cover for anything? Do you then have to pay the premium again to get the benefit back? The main argument of all is that now everything is to be reviewed together. I think it's basically a bad solution to deal with so important issues for people's well-being piece by piece and piece. This must be subject to an overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e765	I just need to be very brief to express joy at the fact that such a large majority in the Chamber gives us the opportunity to look at these important issues in a comprehensive perspective. I very much agree with the representative Lise Christoffersen that this matter concerns important questions of principle. A keyword in this way is the coordination challenges. Now, if we start moving on pieces of the problem to this group, it's not unreasonable that it'll have a pretty big estimate of other corresponding principal issues. It's good with impatience, and it's good with commitment, but it's also very important that the majority now say that they want to see these issues in a whole. And we're going to have enough to do by 1 January 2010, when our ambition is that the entire new pension scheme should be in place. Of course, I'm taking the intention behind what the Progress Party is busy here, and we want it with us when we're doing the whole job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e775	What made me take a line was what the Council of State said he very much agreed with the statement made by the representative of Christoffersen, and he pointed out that there were major questions of principle related to such a case. The representative of Christoffersen said that if the proposal of the Progress Party had been adopted, it would weaken the financing of the arrangement. Does the Council of State think it is in principle right that those who are disabled, who are hit hardest, should be involved in financing and covering the pension of those who are employed? It would have been interesting to get an answer from the Council of State on how he basically looks at that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e782	If the questioner had been concerned about hearing what I actually said, he would have heard that I thought it was an important moment in the introduction to the representative Lise Christoffersen that it was pointed out that this has the coordination issue in itself. Then you can't meet the basic challenges by taking group groups, and you can't believe that conclusions from one group won't have an estimate for other groups. I expressed my opinion that it was a good reasoning behind the rationale for seeing this in an overall context in the context of the pension reform. I don't want to start the fundamental discussion about what the conclusions are to be on the review we're going to have. Had we had the answers now, we would have had no review. That's why we're now going to take time to think through difficult issues in an overall context, and that's why we're going to come back with a proposal to answer it when that work is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e790	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e805	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e813	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a communication on the health of children and young people.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e838	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e845	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e852	The President expects it to be voted against. Then there will be 110 votes against and 8 votes in favour of the proposal. The proposal has not yet been accepted. Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are admitted to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with a statement of the quality of kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e886	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a change in the pension scheme for fishermen, so that fishermen who are disembarked before the age of 60 are reimbursed a premium to the pension scheme for fishermen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06.ana.ud2068e928	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
