ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e106	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e115	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week. The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e122	I have the pleasure on behalf of the representatives of Vera Lysklätt, Leif Helge Kongshaug, Trine Skei Grande and myself to make suggestions to start a five-year general teacher training as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e127	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 14 December 2007: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 14 December 2007 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is hereby decided:State Secretary Frode Berge is hereby dismissed from office as State Secretary for State Council Dag Terje Andersen.Special Adviser Øyvind Slage is hereby appointed State Secretary for State Council Dag Terje Andersen." The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting be interrupted, if necessary, for Stortingets Christmasunsj kr. 13.45 p.m. and I'll see you again at 13.45 p.m. 16 for the evening meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e156	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e165	I'm going to keep the post to the President-in-Office, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, in her absence. We need to treat the setting to St.meld. No 32 on the fisheries agreements concluded by Norway with other countries for 2007 and on fishing under the agreements for 2005 and 2006. Following the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982, coastal States have sovereign rights to exploit marine resources within their economic zones. Coastal states sharing one or more fish stocks shall cooperate on regulation and protection. In addition, Norway has concluded different agreements on foreign fishing in Norwegian sea areas. This year, as in previous years, the Industry Committee is behind the position and is taking the presentation for information. This has, however, become a bit strange. The government parties come without basis with accusations that the opposition wishes to break concluded international agreements. In addition, the government parties have made their own comments throughout the entire setting, although in many questions they are likely to be fully in line with the comments made by the rapporteur and behind the opposition. The opposition rejects in a special note the claims made by the government parties that the agreement was broken, and states that the Government, as usual, has the Stortinge behind it in any renegotiation to improve the conditions of Norwegian fishermen. I guess someone from the government parties will explain their comments. An overall opposition places great emphasis on the work against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, so-called UUU fishing. Here it is only to commend the Council of State for following up the extensive work of the Fisheries Minister Svein Ludvigsen. This requires focus over time, and it is important that we have control regimes that are good enough. Better control has revealed a high level of overfishing, especially in the Barents Sea. The problem is made visible by profiled individual cases, but also by the fact that agreements have been put in place as a result of good work over many years. There is some optimism that the Directorate of Fisheries estimates a decline in blackfish of 23 pst. from 2005 to 2006. Of course, this is no exact science, because it's all about calculating the extent of an activity that's illegal. Of course, there may be random changes from year to year. Whether we have a decline, it's serious about the dimensions that this problem has. In letters to the Committee, the Government estimates the value of overfishing in 2006 to be between DKr 1.3 and DKr 1.8 billion. In other words, we are talking about major losses for Norwegian fishing industry. As regards the fisheries agreement with the EU, the opposition points out that over several years the EU has overfished the mackerel quota. The challenge in the agreement with the EU is the distribution and management of the mackerel stock. In this context, it is important to establish a research project to identify the belongings of the mackerel population. A central theme is, then, whether there is actually a southern mackerel population, as envisaged by the EU. Here, the opposition believes that Norway needs to go more offensively to work, increase research efforts and possibly stand without a mackerel agreement to try to resolve the situation. Fisheries Minister Svein Ludvigsen was pressured by a change in the water regime that gave the EU great, and unfair, benefits. It is important that there is a political pressure in such cases, for Norway, of course, does not get anything free in negotiations with other nations. At the conclusion of the Smuttull agreement between Norway, Iceland and Russia in 1999, the Foreign Affairs Committee stated that, by means of revision, there should be an objective to achieve a better balance between the quota that Icelandic vessels can take in Norwegian zones and the Norwegian vessel quota in Icelandic zones. The Fisheries Shipowners’ Association took the initiative to renegotiate the agreement both in 2002 and 2006. This is an agreement that can be renegotiated every three years. The Committee asks the Government to take the initiative to renegotiate this agreement at its next opportunity, or to inform the Government of the reason for not doing so. As far as framework conditions are concerned, it is important to ensure the same level of technical regulation as possible. An example is the determination of the water flow rate. Other examples are that fleets from different countries use different conversion factors, different mesh sizes, different minimum dimensions, etc. In the issues of the Muttull agreement, the EU agreement and the framework conditions, government parties express great frustration at the fact that these are at all mentioned in the comments on the vote. A more indifferent approach to the key framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry should be sought for a long time. It tells us a little about the situation in the Norwegian fisheries policy that the views of the Workers' Party's Fisheries Commissioner, Steinar Gullvåg, in today's Fisherman are reflected in the clouds of Icelandic fishing boaters. Government parties should take into account the fact that, like the NOx tax and structural issues, this is a matter of major importance for Norwegian fishermen. This is probably a matter where the opposition has to press the Government to take care of Norwegian fishermen's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e204	In recent years, there has been civil peace on the Government's annual notification to the Storting on fisheries agreements with other countries. But not now. The opposition wants to renegotiate important agreements, primarily the agreement on the Smutthole. The opposition is also dissatisfied with the mackerel agreement with the EU, and they are critical of the Government’s efforts to combat illegal, unregistered and unreported fishing. Now it's hardly any news that the opposition parties are still stuck in Svein Ludvigsen's and Bondevik government's fisheries policy. But I think it is alarming that they choose to express it in this context, because it gives the impression that the Government no longer fully supports the contract that this and former governments have spent years developing. I have some doubts as to whether this is really the opposition's view. If so, it can actually influence Norwegian positions in future negotiations. The fisheries agreement with other countries is, and has been, a carrier of Norwegian fisheries policy. Without mutually committed agreements and good and trusting cooperation with our main neighbouring countries, it will be difficult for us to manage common fish stocks in a sensible and sustainable way. And without a common agreement and control system, we will not live in black fishing either. The agreement between the Governments of Norway, Iceland and Russia on fishing in the Smutthole was concluded in 1999. Since then, the agreement has been extended twice, since 2006. There is reason to recall the origin of the agreement. It was concluded as a result of a significant Icelandic fishing activity in international waters of the Barents Sea and a fundamental disagreement on fishing outside the 200-mile limit. In the agreement, Iceland made significant concessions. Iceland now recognises the Norwegian-Russian administration regime for Norwegian-Arctic cod and thus refrains from fishing in the protection zone and the Smutthole. It also grants fishing rights to Norwegian and Icelandic fishermen in each other’s economic zones. This trading relationship and the Icelandic concessions are the basis of the agreement. Therefore, there is a reason why the Norwegian governments, i.e. the Bondevik government in 2002 and the Stoltenberg government in 2006, did not request a revision of the agreement. Neither have any of the other parties to the agreement. I have recorded that in this context the opposition parties also run the case for the Fischbooträder Association when they now ask for a renegotiation of the agreement. I don't think it's wise immediately to throw yourself at the play of some nutritionists in this particular question. Norway, the EU and the Faeroe Islands have had a joint management of the mackerel in the north-east Atlantic since 1999. This management plan has provided stable and sustainable mackerel fishing. Since we now also agree on the management of Norwegian pelagic herring and colt, all the large pelagic stocks are covered by fisheries agreements. Leaving Norway away from these agreements means that the countries currently managing common resources are no longer bound by a total quota for the common stock. In that case, the consequence will be over-taxation and in the worst case, that the stock can collapse. Government parties do not seem natural for the Storting to decide on the framework and content of future fisheries agreements. We believe that it must be up to the government at all times to assess what serves Norwegian interests best, of course within the framework of the overall mandate given by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e221	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the job that has been done, and say that we can join most of the post that Mr Hansen made on behalf of the case rapporteur. Let me start by commenting on the last post, from the representative of Gullvåg. I think one of the reasons why there is an overall opposition behind the comments is that it will do something about fisheries policy. We want an active fisheries policy. We have an engagement. Then we just have to record that the government parties want it the exact opposite, and that neither should we talk about the fisheries agreements. There we totally disagree. We don't want to move power from this hall. We actually want the Storting to have an engagement in that area as well. But for the representative of Gullvåg and the red-greens it is probably most comfortable that the least possible of the various things that come from this government are dealt with in this room. We have seen that, among other things. within travel, and we've also seen it in shipping. Having said that, we believe it is important to improve the framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry, and then, of course, renegotiation of the agreements is a central position. We want to strengthen Norway's position, not weaken it. We believe that this is important for the industry. We record that other business operators believe the same thing, and we have no problem supporting them in this way. Because we share the Norwegian fishing resources with other countries, and it is important to make good positions and have a commitment. I wish that this government had the same commitment to the fishing industry as one has to the climate issue in Bali. Then it could have been done quite well for the Norwegian fishing industry. By sharing resources with other countries, it is important to combat the unregulated and illegal fishing that is happening. We see that the commitment of the Government in this matter is to follow up what the Fisheries Minister Svein Ludvigsen and the previous government did. That is what we think to be good. But we are deeply concerned that this government is now making sure that the Coast Guard has a significant reduction in its budgets, which means that the number of sailing days for next year is falling by between 20 and 25 pst. If you are unable to control where crime is committed, you have been faced with a very difficult situation. So this government has done it with full consideration. When you look at the huge amounts of illegal fishing, up to 2 billion dollars a year in first-rate terms, it's quite incomprehensible to choose such a passive strategy for Coast Guards. I just want to show that the Progress Party in its alternative budget proposed to strengthen the Coast Guard by 300 million. kr. I think that's a minimum of what the Coast Guard should get for next year, and that's what we're going to follow up in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e232	Fishing agreements with other countries are crucial to ensure Norway's access to fishing resources and to avoid overfishing. There is a broad consensus on whether they will override the objectives of securing the interests of Norwegian fishermen and having the most efficient management of resources. At the same time, as it's already shown here, there's a problem between the government and, among other things, the government. Christian People's Party on Procedurals and Tools. A collective opposition of e.g. that the Government should initiate the renegotiation of the Smotthol Agreement with a view to achieving a better balance for Norway's advantage. This would be in line with the intention of the Foreign Affairs Committee in connection with the conclusion of the Agreements in 1999. Both in 2002 and 2006, as has already been said, the Federation of Fishermen took the initiative in such a renegotiation. The fishermen have reason to be disappointed that the government party didn't give us a big one. Russia shows little willingness and ability to follow up the actions agreed between Norway and Russia in the context of control. This is not acceptable. In the EU, it is now recognised that their fisheries policy is in crisis. The EU's own audit body states in a recent report that the EU is running almost uncontrolled overfishing, resulting in dramatic stock failure. Four out of five species of fish are overfished. The same is the conclusion of a report known through the Financial Times on 26 September. The report shows, among other things: that the EU has, because of overfishing, a fishing industry that is among the least profitable in the world. About 80 pst. EU stocks are overfished. The global average is 25 pst. When the European Commission received the report, he was banned from circulating. It may not be so strange. The one author, David Symes at the University of Hull, United Kingdom, writes: Over the past 25 years, the EU institutions have represented over a period of disparate decline for Europe’s fishing industry. The second author, former president of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea Mike Sissenwine, writes: It is difficult to understand how an organisation located almost inconclusively in Brussels can manage the variation in fisheries and coastal communities spread across Europe. Norway's fisheries management is particularly good and resilient compared to what we find in the EU. But the government must act. The EU needs to be forced to change, such as: Former Minister of Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen took part in bringing an end to the EU's unfortunate watershed decision. In the case of fisheries crises in the EU, Norwegian North Sea fishermen are also affected. An overall opposition indicates that the EU has overfished the mackerel quota for several years. The government must have a joint research project in place to map the region of the mackerel. Thus, we can have a better distribution of the macroloutt between Norway and the EU. The release of fish is also a major problem in the EU. Up to 60 pst. EU fishing in the North Sea will be thrown out at sea, according to the EU's own figures. The EU's Fisheries Commissioner, Joe Borg, told the NRK on 20 November that the Union had agreed that something had to be done. But he didn't know how to agree on the details. This is not possible! The government urgently needs to engage in dialogue with the EU Commission and the UK and other countries in order to prevent discards of fish. Something else will be a betrayal of the food situation in the world, of the environment and of Norwegian fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e255	I would like to begin by stressing that sustainable resource management is a central objective of the Government in the fisheries negotiations we conduct each year with other countries. I've read the Committee's configuration, Innst. S. No 77, with interest, and must say that the Committee's comments show that in most cases there is a consensus on the objectives we should have in these negotiations, and what are our challenges. I notice that the committee is particularly concerned about illegal fishing. This is a concern which, of course, I fully share. In the negotiations with Russia, the illegal interception of cod in the Barents Sea has been the central theme for several years, and Norway and Russia agreed on further measures to address the problem in the autumn. Since October 2006, the fisheries authorities have exchanged data on satellite tracking of fishing vessels throughout the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea. This has provided both national authorities with a much better overview of fishing activity. The Minister of Justice, through talks with his Russian colleague, has reached an agreement on enhanced control cooperation, and therefore representatives of the Russian Public Prosecutor's Office took part in the 36th session of the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission in October this year. Norwegian fishing authorities have transmitted a comprehensive material on the fishing activities of Russian vessels on shared stocks. As a result, Russian authorities have fined Russian operators for several $10 million. In 2007, the Norwegian and Russian National Audit Office completed a comprehensive parallel audit of the management of the shared stocks in the Barents Sea by the two countries. The report concludes that Norwegian fisheries management is consistently working very well to reduce illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing, the so-called UUU fishing, in the Barents Sea. According to estimates, overfishing was reduced by 23 pst from 2005 to 2006. for cod and 55 pst. for elevators. This represents fish for hundreds of millions of dollars, and the reduction of overfishing leads to an increase in cod quota for 2008. We also have indications that overfishing is further reduced from 2006 to 2007, both from the monitoring of fisheries in the Barents Sea and from the market. The Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission established a total quota for Norwegian Arctic cod for 2008 of 430000 tonnes. There is an increase in the quota of 6000 tonnes compared to the current year. The increase in the quota from 2007 to 2008 is a consequence of the reduction in overfishing, thus benefiting law-abiding fishermen. The quota is in line with the adopted tax strategy for Norwegian Arctic cod, on which Norway and Russia have previously agreed. Control was also a central theme of the negotiations with the EU on a 2008 fisheries agreement. I am pleased that we should continue the strong focus on control. The EU is a constructive partner in the fight against UUU fishing and Norway has achieved significant steps in the right direction in its efforts to achieve satisfactory control regimes for all fishing Norway is participating in. The Parties shall continue to focus on the control of pelagic landings. After achieving much on the landing side, the parties shall now have a special focus on what is happening at sea, such as: draft. In the bilateral fisheries agreement with the EU, we have put in place long-term management plans for herring, sieving, hay and cod in the North Sea. The aim is to ensure sound management and to contribute to a stable framework for industry. Norway and the EU agree to strengthen cooperation in order to introduce measures to improve the pattern of taxation in the North Sea, including the introduction of more selective tools and reduced drafts. This is very important to ensure that the effective extraction is sound. As regards the international administration of Norwegian springing herring, the coastal States also continued the agreement in 2008, with an increased quota in line with the recommendation of marine research. As regards the management of coal, the agreement continued for 2008 with a reduction in the total quota from 1,7 million tonnes in 2007 to 1,150000 tonnes in 2008, a reduction resulting from the biological advice. Norway has the overall strategy of achieving responsible management of all marine living resources in the North Atlantic. Such responsible resource management is committed to Norway by international law through the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the United Nations Agreement on all fisheries at the high seas. Cooperation in the north-east Atlantic has developed very positively. In 2007, the parties have worked in particular to monitor the implementation of adopted measures, port State control and control of pelagic landings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e294	The Council of State said in its speech that she fully shares the Committee's concerns about the fight against illegal fishing, and I think that is good. What is the result of the government’s financial priorities for the budget in 2008 is a reduction in the number of sailing days – as I was in my post – of about 20-25 pst. The Coast Guard is worried and you don't think you can do the job you're set to do, well enough. I could imagine asking the Council of State whether there's a professional justification or economic priorities that will reduce the Coast Guard's budget. And is control in the Barents Sea getting better with a reduction in such a magnitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e301	This government has actually strengthened the budget of the Coast Guard in the State budgets for the previous two years. We have not reduced the appropriations for the Coast Guard in the 2008 budget. It's true that if you only look at the number of days sailing, there's a reduction here. At the same time, however, we are now deploying new coastguard vessels in the Barents Sea with a much larger capacity and reach than the old coastguard vessels, which have been largely reconstructed fishing vessels. So the capacity of the Coast Guard is strengthened. One of the things you want to do is to: have helicopters on board a part of the new vessels, and it is clear that the Coast Guard will then become a much more powerful instrument than it is today. So what we do is both economically and professionally sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e308	The representative of Steinar Gullvåg was concerned that the signals in this setting would weaken Norwegian interests in the international fisheries negotiations. For this reason, there is reason to note that the government parties actively seek to mark such a split in the setting. The Government Parties systematically disregard all observations made by the case rapporteur, although there is a great deal of consensus there that is likely to be, as the Minister for Fisheries also mentioned in his statement. There is also reason to mention the performance in the Fisherman on Friday, where the representative Steinar Gullvåg actively marketed a disagreement on these issues. My question is: does the Council of State representative Steinar Gullvåg's alleged concern that Norwegian fisheries negotiations are weakening that there is a public debate in Norway on such issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e316	I noticed that in his speech to the pulpit earlier in the debate, the representative Hansen made it clear that an overall committee was behind the Government in the agreements we negotiated. I am, of course, satisfied with that. I don't want to put Norway in a position where by opening negotiations we will drive it so far that we risk standing without an agreement. I'm very concerned that we're going to have agreements in place. It is important both for long-term sustainable management and for ensuring predictability of industry in the short term. Let me just underline once again that I do not want to conduct the negotiations in such a way that we risk standing without agreements. In addition, the Government’s position with regard to both the North-East Atlantic mackerel agreement and the Smutthull agreement is a continuation of the policy of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e325	For many years, Norway and the EU have been in a real mess about the distribution of mackerel quotas. The EU has a not insignificant overfishing of mackerel. This is very complicated. A keyword is the zone association of the mackerel. The opposition has called for a research project to be set up to identify the mackerel's zone link, and for a better distribution of the mackerel between Norway and the EU in the light of this. So my question is, will the Council of State take the initiative for such a research project?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e334	Let me just first say that in the case of the southern component, there is a cross-political consensus in Norway that it should not have been there. In a totality, the most important thing for Norway has been to set up a mackerel agreement. The consequence of not having a mackerel agreement is that unregulated fishing has benefited, and it has been mainly EU fishermen who have benefited from it. Good marine research and the use of best available knowledge are the basis for all the agreements we conclude. In the years to come, we will also place great emphasis on research and knowledge both in the case of the mackerel – and its zone belongings – tobis, eyeball and all the other species we are negotiating.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e341	The government has promised a so-called active fisheries policy. In this case, the Government meets with some criticism from the industry about the extent to which Norwegian interests in international negotiations are actually actively followed up. In addition, this period has been marked by a lot of turbulence and a lot of dissatisfaction from the fishing industry. It is linked to the district quota system, which is seen as bureaucratic and inefficient. In the case of delivery obligations, which weaken industry profitability, two years with structural breaks, marginal majority behind new structural arrangements, net pay arrangements for competing seafarers without increasing fishing deductions, and the NOx charge, which substantially weakens the competitive conditions of the fishing industry. Does the State Council feel that the Government has sufficient support from the industry to the fisheries policy – the so-called active fisheries policy – that the Labour Party promised in the previous election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e353	If you ask different representatives from the fishing industry what are the right choices further, you will get different answers because of who you ask. It is not that the fishing fleet and the land side necessarily have similar interests. This applies, inter alia, to: on the issue of the law of participants. This government has doubled the marine value creation program. We have set up a new state investment fund with a large catch capital that is earmarked for the marine sector. We have concluded in structural policy and got a majority in favour of a line on which there was a cross-political agreement before the previous government broke it. We have taken up the fight against illegal fishing in the Barents Sea, and now we see results from it. Not least, we are taking a tough course in fisheries negotiations with other countries. There we continue the policy of both previous governments and governments before it has taken place. In negotiations, we are closely in contact with the industry before going to the negotiating table. I feel that from the industry there is broad support for the line that Norway leads in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e360	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e378	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e394	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e401	There was a climate compromise in Bali. It's very good, because it needs the world. It is, after all, the poorest that becomes the hardest of the climate change we now see, and it is among them that climate change costs the most lives. But even in Norway, we now notice quite clearly that there has become more extreme weather, and this is a collective committee some about, minus the Progress Party, which is not entirely able to land this case about climate. In the evening post today it is warned that it becomes a harsher climate. It's going to cost more, and the costs are big, but they're not sure. So the government has started a screening work for how these greenhouse gas emissions will affect the costs of the transport sector. That's good, because we see that the cost will well increase, and in this new age we'll spend 39 million. kr to clean up things that might have caused greenhouse gas emissions. These costs will undoubtedly increase, so that the need for national measures related to climate change is increasing, and thus we also see the need to reach a good compromise here on the Storting against the climate negotiations that are taking place. When it comes to the submitted climate message, it is also very desirable for one to come forward. There are a few things that the committee shows relatively high attention. One is the cost of climate change, that one is aware of these and that the Government will continue to work on it. So there's a lot of concrete projects that I'm going to go into. One project concerns Hardangerbrua, which Stortinget has agreed to, but where it is now found that the cost of the route of administration is increasing by 38 pst. There is then a need to stop, and the government takes a nap when it comes to Hardangerbrua, by cutting off the supply competition. The plurality of the committee agrees that this must happen, because it is clear that if this large project gets such a crazy amount of cost, let's say 40 pst, there will be a very great need for new revenues to cover that increase. There must be a practice when you want to continue projects, if any. Therefore, it is very wise to look at this consensus decision, to see if this is becoming too expensive, or at least to know how to cover up the increase in costs of this project. It is also natural, when a new climate is more focused, that Hardangerbrua is also being discussed in connection with the national climate policy that will take place in Norway. But it's doubtful that if the increase is as large as it looks, i.e. almost 40 pst., it will have consequences for Storting's priorities in other states, because one of them has to be involved in covering an overrun at Hardangerbrua. That's why it's best to take this humpbone and look at how wise it is initially to go on as the bill develops. The third thing that the Committee is busy with is the general development of prices within the transport market. There are still increases. We see it on the railways, we see it on the road sector, and we see that they increase the promises that this government receives, they become eaten up by far higher prices – and that is an equal amount of money. So here's an important signal from a consensual committee that one now has to go through the different projects one's going on, in order to complete the most possible project, and not start many new ones there one to the seventh and last don't know the cost. As I said, I am very happy that there has been a climate compromise in Bali. I think it's important that we all now take on board that we have a national task of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and then it's important to continue to assess different transport projects, that the climate is high in focus. It eats up our globe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e420	I was afraid we ended up in Bali, but now we're on our way. We are examining changes to the state budget for the current year, 2007, under the Ministry of Transport. The case concerns not least overruns. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. Let me say that the Progress Party believes it is essential that the Storting can rely on cost calculations for large transport projects. The Progress Party will stress in particular that for a transport project where large shares of funding are collected through tolls, the Stortinget – where all parties except the Progress Party accept the use of tolls – has a special responsibility. It may, and should not, and should not be such as to bring costs in full, or the majority, into the hands of car users through increased toll prices, reduced discount schemes, multiple tolling stations and extended collection times — nor, in the opinion of the Progress Party, so that tolls are still used for purposes far away from road construction. The Progress Party also recalls that we have a control tool for large government investments of over 500 million. kr. They must be ensured through so-called external quality assurance. For this control tool legislation has been developed by the Ministry of Finance. The Progress Party sees the need for stronger and clearer supervision by the Ministry of Finance to ensure that external quality assurance is used and when and how it is to be used. Let me remind you that this control tool came into place some years ago with the background that a large number of transport projects were built with large cost exceedances. If that happens, of course, it should not come as a surprise, and after completion. There may be grounds for recalling that background. There may also be grounds for recalling that this control tool is not an unnecessary bureaucratic invention, but an important measure to ensure that the state, and increasingly the drivers, actually know how much transport projects will cost when they are finished. Therefore, it is necessary to provide exceptional special and good reasons for the known uncertainty associated with a project or new uncertainty whether a project should not be clarified through new external quality assurance. It is not available for the main projects mentioned in the case – the Urban Railway in Bergen and Hardangerbrua – rather on the contrary! The city railway in Bergen is mentioned in the case. The Party rejects the fact that this transport policy experiment paid by the motorists in Bergen is to be treated in an exceptional way in relation to excess costs and the need for quality assurance and new treatment. There is reason to believe that the Urban Railway – one of the two major projects in the so-called Bergen Programme – can crack by 40 pst. and approaching a cost framework of NOK 2.4 billion. In time, the project is already delayed by one year. The second major project in the programme – Ringveg West, a road project – keeps the planned progress and is within the cost framework. The main reason for the increase in costs is, in addition to what is stated in the case, declared by the municipality of Bergen as necessary changes from the original project basis. In good and understandable Norwegian, this means bad work. In addition, the problem of VAT is unclear: Should VAT be paid on the project or not? The discussion is ongoing about who will pay the bill for the necessary movement of the water and sewerage network – the urban railway project or the water and sewerage customers in Bergen. The Progress Party believes that it is necessary to carefully examine this scandalous project. There is a need for new quality assurance, not only for costs, but also for traffic, which determines the revenue of the Urban Railway. In this way, I fully agree with the comments made by the rapporteur in the previous article. Finally, some words about Hardangerbrua. When the calculation cracks by almost 40 pst. on the routes of administration, there is reason to review the overall calculations. It is understandable and necessary. There is new knowledge of new uncertainties. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible that conditions that were considered uncertain when the bridge was adopted – e.g. the traffic base, i.e. the income base — and which remains uncertain — shall not be guaranteed for quality when it has time to do so. Hardangerbrua, according to the State Road Administration, will be postponed for a year. It provides time for new quality assurance of the traffic base if one is willing. A person should make good use of the deferral period. Finally on racial protection in relation to Hardangerbrua. Many in the region consider racial protection to be more important than bridge. Many are concerned that the bypass when the Vallavik tunnel closes in connection with the construction of a bridge becomes a ferry. Ferry is a race-proof road.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e446	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e449	Overall proposals from the Ministry of Transport have often been a pleasant reading in previous years – they have turned around and got new things at the end of the year. This time, the proposition is largely characterised by excess costs, especially in road projects. The right agrees with the Ministry and the Council of State that there is reason to stop when the increase in the cost of incoming tenders is as large as what we see in some projects. But we might have a slightly different diagnosis and maybe a slightly different solution to this relationship. Looking at cost developments in the construction industry, it shows an increase of 17 p.p. in the construction cost index of road installations by the Central Bureau of Statistics. from 2004 until today, i.e. 5 1/2 pst. per 1 % years. Now this index doesn't give any information about the contractor's progress, but can it be here that the dog is buried – so we see an increase in risk pricing due to a lack of trust between the actors? In that case, this is serious, and I expect the Council of State to take this into account. There is no doubt that mistrust and a high level of conflict increase costs. The Land Association of Construction, BNL, claims that they still have capacity – at least at the hearing in the Committee at the end of October – and that there was nothing to suggest such a price increase in the market. I also noticed that, at the hearing in the Committee, BNL wanted a better relationship with the State Road Administration and that, in addition to changing tendering practices, they wanted a State Road Service as the best builder, as they expressed it. Let's hope that could happen. Unlike what we see in traditional tender practices, we have seen completely different experiences with OPS. In this context, it is motivated to find solutions that provide lower maintenance costs. OPS has given greater innovation to the projects. There are good cooperation relationships between the builder and the contractor. Construction time is reduced dramatically, and thus building loan interest rates, and the socio-economic benefits are improved. There will be a lot more predictability for the public. We simply get more – and earlier – way for the money. I'm going to comment on a couple of the things that are addressed at the individual project level in the proposition. With regard to the Urban Railway in Bergen, I see that both the City Council and Hordaland County Council are asking for such a solution as the Council of State has now instructed us. We agree with the Right, but we are deeply sorry that this goes beyond the Skansen Tunnel. It says in the proposition that we now have to count on building stops for other projects in the Bergen programme. The Skansen Tunnel is an environmental project that will improve the conditions of Bryggen, which is a project and a building mass on the UNESCO list. With a small reference to the SV representative, who spoke most about climate negotiations, there is probably also a growing need for action in the future. The representative from SV thought we now had to take a break when it came to Hardangerbrua. It does not agree with the Right, and in particular not the type of slab cutting that SV has previously undergone in this room. We think it's right to stop and just work a little bit extra to get better prices and overall get a better economy in the project. We also do not agree on the topic of climate change raised by the representative. There is no doubt that the ferries pollute far more than traffic on the bridge will do. We largely agree with the Council of State in her assessment of this matter. We are also very pleased that she says that the decision on the bridge is firm, and that it is not added to new quality assurances to cover the traffic base. The right-hand side agrees with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e468	St. pp. No Unfortunately, 24 has a horizontal theme, namely overruns of costs. This is due to several relationships. There may be surprises along the way, poor pre-projecting or what is a major global problem for all construction activities today: high market pressure, few operators, and thus prices being pushed up. This reduces the impact of increased government appropriations on the road sector, and a comprehensive committee therefore asks the Government to consider measures to reduce cost growth, including a review of procurement policy, postponement of road projects, including projects based on toll financing. It is a sad development, which is extremely important for the Minister of Transport to grasp. I also support what the representative Halleraker has concerns about, the possibilities of using OPS projects and other cost reduction measures. In the case of the projects mentioned in the proposal, the Christian People's Party supports the Government in the actions undertaken. For projects already started, it is essential to avoid a stoppage, which will only further increase costs. With regard to extra appropriations for racial protection and flood damage, I would like to refer to the budget debate and that we included 75 million extra dollars in our 2008 alternative budget for racial protection. The Christian People's Party has pointed out on several occasions that racial protection is underbudgeted, and we are sincerely disappointed that the Minister of Transport does not give higher priority to racial protection. I believe that what we see now in terms of extra funding needs to be given, just shows the situation in which we have come up with in the racial protection sector. The Christian People's Party will stress that our position on the construction of Hardangerbrua is firm, and we are pleased that the Government in the proposition underlines the same thing. But we are somewhat surprised that the red-green parties do not have the same confidence in their own government as the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, as they do not want to participate in a declaration of support for their own government in this matter. This is probably due to SV's attempts at rematch, based on their own primary position of not building Hardangerbrua. The rapporteur's intervention at the start of the debate was a strong emphasis on our suspicion. As soon as a new limited quality assurance has been completed, I expect the Stortinget to be informed about the progress of the project. Even in the case of the Urban Railway in Bergen, the Christian People's Party is committed to previous building decisions. The pressure in the market has led to significant overruns. We support the Government's proposal to recover the increased expenditure through increased toll money – possibly through cutbacks in the Bergen project portfolio, even if it is painful. The city railway is a very important environmental project in Bergen, and it has the full support of the Christian People's Party. So finally, a little bit about the negotiations that are going on between the state and Hurtigruten ASA on new framework conditions, among other things. compensation for the NOx charge, which is brief in the proposition. In the Christian People's Party, we are somewhat concerned that these negotiations are going on a very long time – out in 2008. An overall increase is behind the framework agreement with the state that the fast-track route is following towards 2012. It is now extremely important to have an agreement based on new framework assumptions. I refer to joint comments from the opposition parties in the budgetary position, where we ‘meeting a realistic agreement to ensure that the fast route can sail safely until 2012’. The parties to the Government could not take part in such an insurance when the budget was examined, and it worries. The fast route ASA is struggling with the economy and has started difficult, completely necessary conversion processes. In this respect, it is particularly important that the long-term contract provides for the follow-up of the responsibility of the State, which ensures daily sailing to specific ports until 2012. The Christian People's Party assumes that the Storting will be briefed as soon as an agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e481	I am pleased with the extra promise that the Vegvesenet now makes to repair the road after race and flooding. The road system has a challenge in the future by taking stock of the consequences of increasing extreme weather damage on the road network. The same applies to the railway network. At these times, all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, are in the process of concluding a climate settlement on the Stortinget. Then it's worth noting the comment of all the parties, except the Progress Party, where a reminder of the man-made climate change, a note that the Progress Party is not in, and also has no alternative. It confirms that there is a reason why the Progress Party is not involved in the work of concluding a climate settlement at Stortinget. In the proposition, there are several issues that show that there is a significant increase in costs compared to previous calculations. This has been a strong increase in 2007 in both road and rail entrepreneurship. It's not uncommon with a 30-40 pst price increase. A comprehensive committee addresses this in the configuration and asks the Government to consider measures to reduce the growth in costs. It can be done, among other things. be a review of the policy for calling out contracts to contractors and postponing road projects. It is alarming if the representative Halleraker claims in his statement, it is true that the construction industry is adding overprice to its supply. In that case, BNL should, if Halleraker is right, use their forces to raise the industry to be clean rather than to bring a steady outcome to the State Road Service, which does a good job of facilitating the construction of contractors. The Ministry has a close follow-up to these conditions, both in relation to the State Road Service and the Railway Agency. If you want to do something about it, you'll have to do something about it. considered using the contract strategy more actively. It may be to break down the contract price into smaller contracts in order to increase competition, more small and medium-sized enterprises that can offer more. Furthermore, a number of major contractor prices may be illuminated, combining installations at large contractor prices, which will also have an international interest with the aim of attracting foreign entrepreneurs, which in turn will ensure greater competition. In connection with the Stortinget's briefing on the cost overruns of the two Hardangerbrua and Stadtbanen projects in Bergen, I have noticed that the Progress Party has benefited from a rematch on both of these. The progress batch will have additional quality assurance of the traffic base of Hardangerbrua and new external quality assurance of the costs and revenues of the urban railway project and that the final project will be resubmitted to Stortinget. As I have answered questions from the Transport and Communications Committee, the traffic base of the Hardanger Bridge project is based on long-term analyses. No new moments are currently required for a new analysis of the traffic base. The cost report is not of a similar long-term nature, and there are requirements for updating these estimates. I also want to use the ability to come up with a clarification for the Progress Party. The progress batch has a comment in the setting that it is not as I explained in my answer to Question No. 5 to the Committee, that the Stortinget's decision on the financing of the bridge was inconclusive. I would like to make it clear that, of course, it is the decision to build the bridge and the cost frame that was co-ordinated. The progress party voiced, as in many other cases, for the project, but against toll financing as part of the cost recovery. The urban track is part of the Bergen programme toll package. As with toll packages in general, there are indications as to how to deal with any additional costs. Cut of planned projects in the project portfolio is a common way of resolving this, and it is a statement as shown in the individual proposition submitted to the Stortinget. Otherwise, of course, I am glad that in all cases there is support from a majority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e504	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e507	Initially, I would like to remind the Council of State that the Progress Party has not been invited to any climate negotiations at Stortinget, but that we are still in the area of transport, and that is what we are talking about here today, is concerned about having effective, safe and environmentally friendly roads. My question to the State Council is about Hardangerbrua. We have now heard the Council of State repeat that she sees no need to re-assure the income side, as the case-rapporteur had in mind. My challenge to the Council of State is how she perceives the wording of the remarks of a majority who, in addition to the government parties, also include the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘this underlines the need for a new limited quality assurance of the entire project’.» [[...]] Is it just about the cost side? Is it completely reprehensible to look at the traffic base and thus the income side of the bridge when you still have a year to ensure quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e519	First of all, what I said when I mentioned the climate agreement was that this confirms well that there is a reason why the Progress Party is not invited. To the question of Hardangerbrua and quality assurance: the basis of income has been quality sound both at the stage of a planned project and, of course, through the external quality assurance. There is nothing to suggest that the traffic base should have changed, i.e. the long-term forecasts of the traffic base have not changed. Nothing has happened to indicate that there are changes in the traffic base from the proposition was made. It is the cost side that has changed, and we then go into and implement a new quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e527	I also want to record Hardangerbrua. Hardangerbrua is a unique project. It is almost realized without a budget from the state at all, despite a cost framework of around NOK 2 billion. Big local riot, 77 pst. for the construction of a bridge, a survey showed in the Official Journal of Bergen, first priority in the district of Hordaland and in the municipalities around it. But in the national media one can get the impression that the project leads to large state counts, which is not the case. Does the Council of State agree that in a project such as Hardangerbrua, with such strong localisation and not least such a strong financial contribution, the government body has a special responsibility to follow up the project and to ensure that it is realised, as prescribed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e534	I agree with Mr Halleraker that national media and also some politicians are trying to create the impression that Hardangerbrua is spending a lot of money on government budgets and is distorting other projects that it would be more important to produce. I want to distance from such a reality description. I agree that this is a project with great local involvement and a large project of effort. That being said, there is a responsibility on the government powers, at the Minister of Transport, to get things done and to get projects out, the same who is funding it. It is clear that there is an extra eagerness where a local waits for a project that one has worked for too long, but whether there are government funds or local funds, should not be involved and affect our attitude to the matter. In any case, we shall be clean, constructive and proper and have the projects realised, both cost-effectively and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e541	I spent a little time at the end of my post addressing the situation that the Hurtigruten ASA is currently in. A total increase was finally behind a state arrangement in cooperation with Hurtigruten, so that it would sail safely until 2012 and call at certain ports. The situation today is that the fast-haul company is undergoing major and necessary changes – changes that the company must make. It is then extremely important that the State should follow up its commitments to Hurtigruten. I am surprised that it takes so long to have the framework conditions renegotiated, among other things. after the costs incurred by the NOx charge on the Hurtigruten. What is the situation for these negotiations? And when can you count on one to be in the goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e551	It is difficult for me in a forum like this to say something about the negotiations that are going on. It is in the nature of such negotiations that they are internal and that they cannot be said so much. What I can say is that it's demanding, because part of Hurtigruta's activity is related to the government purchase, while part of it is connected to another commercial enterprise. We're also a party to this case, as in some other cases, and it gives us a little bit of a headache. This applies to ESA – that we come up with what we need, and that we need to approve it there. Therefore, there will be a few rounds, but I hope that we will complete the negotiations as quickly as possible over the New Year, and that one will find good solutions that will ensure both commercial operations and, in particular, government purchases and calls at important ports along our coast until 2012, which will take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e558	The constant exceedances of projects already under way appear to be an increasing problem. It travels, for example: competition issues are effective enough, so that costs are kept down and that the organisation of projects is adequate, so that the timing of projects is optimal. Permits in the construction industry to next year have been announced due to project uncertainties. How will the Minister of Transport take control so that we get predictability and as much money as possible again?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e565	Of course, the extent to which the excesses we have seen will continue will depend on how the market is going to be, both on construction and on installations – for that matter, to a close extent. I note that the plant industry repeatedly says that there is no capacity available, but we note that there is little competition in the outbound supply, which is normally a sign that one has enough to do. So here, there's not quite a match between word and action. In my article, I mention some of the things we are working on now, simply to go through the contract strategy and see if we can split up installations, whether we can merge installations, either to come down to the medium-sized and smaller entrepreneurs – because I believe that to the extent that there is no capacity, he is there – or to reach foreign entrepreneurs to a greater extent than we do today. This is going to work actively, and I really hope that in 2008 we will get a new pace on the issues where someone has now had to take a little break.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e576	I want to address two things: first, a follow-up on the traffic base at Hardangerbrua. The council says nothing has changed. I mean, she's wrong. There are new toll-based packages on the way forward, the Vossa package and the Quamma package, and the people of the region have clearly said that they give priority to racial protection. Driving time studies have come in retrospect, cost studies with different driving routes have come in retrospect, and we have ferry traffic that has changed dramatically and clearly after the advance collection of tolls was introduced. First of all, we still have time to take a thorough hedge of the income base. So to the City Railway in Bergen, which is given special treatment. And if I get it right, it's because even if individual projects, one of two large ones, crack by 40 pst, it's okay, you can keep it pretty undisturbed, as long as you're within a program and within a community that allows one project to eat freely from other projects. Is that correct? Is that what makes you allowed to continue the progress of the Urban Railway in Bergen, by 40 pst. exceedance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e583	First of all, the toll projects in Hardanger were not known when creating the forecasts for Hardangerbrua. They've been working for a long time, and they were well-known at that time. So I still mean that the traffic pattern that you see has not had any major changes since the arrangements were made. In the case of Urbana in Bergen and other urban packages – Bybana is part of an urban package – according to Stortinget’s decisions, that if one has exceedances of one project, it means that one must reprioritise within the remaining package. There is no new principle that has been put in place when it concerns the urban road, it is a principle that has been in force in the urban packages that at least I have been away in my time, and I think it has also been so before my time. Walking in and looking at how to re-prioritize a job is, of course, a job that needs to be done locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e590	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e595	Firstly, I think it is important for us to take the necessary measures so that we can now build Hardangerbrua. I think those who are doing this are entitled to have it implemented. In fact, I believe that at least in the government parties there is agreement on that, although there is a part that is trying to attack the representative of Langeland in that area. Then I'm going to have to put Jahn Sahl on a little visit, and that might be nothing new. But I want you to be a little bit more precise in what you're saying. Firstly, with regard to racial protection, this government is keeping the level that has been stated in the national transport plan. I think it's important to bring it with me, because I guess it wasn't like this during the Bondevik II administration. So you have to remind each other about the state of the kingdom sometimes. So a little bit about the Hurtigruten and the sailing pattern. It is true that the short-term memory can be the same as any one of us – that you end up in Stortinget by keeping the sailing pattern of Hurtigruten, and that there was agreement on that. But then, of course, it wasn't like that from the start. In fact, the Bondevik II government suggested that the sailing pattern for the Hurtigruten be split up. This meant that you were going to change in relation to calls, you were going to use speedboats, you were going to use airplanes, and you were going to use ‘you name it’ – the whole package – to try to split up the sailing pattern of the Hurtigruten. So I think it's important to remember a little bit about what was going on. In fact, it was the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party that initially got a majority to keep the sailing pattern to the Hurtigruten, and then the Bondevik government – it's probably right as the representative Jan Sahl says – came in time, and it was agreed that you should keep the level you had today. So it's like when you're negotiating, it's hard for the Storting to get involved in those negotiations. It is estimated that it is in safe hands and that it is agreed to maintain the navigation pattern of the Hurtigruten as it is today until the date of the agreement, 2012. But it's probably not to stick under the chair either that the Hurtigruten is struggling with the economic part today, so we're all hoping that you get these things in place, and that, as she said, the Council of State will come back to the Stortinget with a briefing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e606	A few comments on the tap. The case rapporteur started with being in Bali as well as being in the evening post today. If climate hysteria can help us better secure both road and rail networks, especially in terms of racial protection, we can at least enjoy it. This has long been the intention of the Progress Party, and still believes, completely independent of negotiations, among other things. in Bali: It is important that we have effective, safe and environmentally friendly roads. So to what might be the main theme of the proposition itself, this is that the price of big projects cracks. There's probably more reasons for that. There may be uncertainty among contractors — mentioned — but what is also clear is that the project basis presented is often inadequate. This is not only true in the urban runway project. There is a good deal of unwarranted, or omitted, information that there is actually a poor project base. But it is. I repeat what the municipality of Bergen itself uses as one of its explanations that the project seems to crack with a preliminary 40 pst. «necessary changes from the original project base». It's a bad job, and it costs when it has to be taken back. What also emerged when the Transport Committee had its budgetary hearing in the context of the 2008 State Budget was precisely the fact that many projects have a poor basis. This was asked by representatives of the construction industry, and it became very clear that yes, this was the case, and it was also given examples of how this species behaved, that it has actually received praise and thanks from the state road service when it has been made clear from the contractor team that projects have been poor, had shortcomings and had a need for creation. So this is an essential factor when you seem to get a lot of cracks, is completely clear, at least as the Progress Party sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e623	I have to take the floor too briefly to express my surprise that I am being criticised for talking about climate policy in relation to the transport sector in my article. It was a strange criticism – that one could not talk about the climate in connection with a sector that is responsible for so much emissions. That the Right Party and, in part, the Christian People's Party come with that criticism, amazes me. I'm not surprised that the Progress Party does, but the parties on the Stortinget that negotiate a climate settlement with the Government don't want to discuss climate when talking about the transport sector, when talking about the Cityban, when a permission is 39 million. kr to repair the climatic damage, it is strange. Just this focus is important when discussing transport – all the way. Right, Left and Christian People's Party even has 15 proposals that go on transport, in the climate negotiations, so this is really strange. When this is true of price developments, it's clear that if you go to the store and buy something that has a price, it turns out it's 50 pst. More expensive, one actually doesn't have the money. And that's my point. The stork has agreed to the expansion of Hardangerbrua, which I also believe. But the government now says that you want to go in and look at this, go through it. So price developments have increased by 38 pst. increase in the route of administration. Yes, then you can talk about amounts other than what the Stortinget decided. That's what the government is now taking, and it's me as the case spokesman and as a representative of the plural party appreciates that the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e632	I actually didn't think I would take the word several times in this case, but it became necessary for two reasons. In the reply between the Council of State and the representative of Sortevik, Sortevik concluded that there has been a failure in the traffic development of the ferries to replace Hardangerbrua after the introduction of pre-tolls. That's not right. I'm here with statistics from the ferry company and from the state's own censuses on Hardangervidda, which show exactly the same trend as they've shown in the last five years. It is true that there was some traffic failure in the first two months of the current year. But it was largely due to storms and storms and the closure of Hardangervida in the first two months. But it looks like they're taking in that decay at the end of the year. So I think you should be a little bit careful with the source base. It's a lot of actors. The committee knows very well what I'm talking about when I say that we're overwhelmed with unsubstantial information in this case. I also have to say that I think it is a bit striking that the Progress Party, at Sortevik, is drawing a completely different project into the case of over-costs at Hardangerbrua and in connection with that project asking that you relate to cost keys for realised projects that were completed almost ten years ago. Well, then, sir. Langeland, who came up with some criticism of me and the Right. I don't quite understand what he's aiming for. I can't say that I criticized his climate awareness. What I said, however, was that ferries – and especially conventional ferries, but also gas ferries – have far greater emissions, especially CO2 emissions than rolling stock over a bridge. It actually shows all the investigations, so I think it's right to point out from this pulpit. But that climate negotiations in Bali went well, I agree with the representative of Langeland in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e648	I must also make a brief visit to the representative of Langeland, who thought that the Christian People's Party had criticized him for mentioning the climate in connection with transportation. The Christian People's Party is strongly concerned that the transport sector is one of the biggest polluters, and that we have the biggest challenges in the climate debate in the future. I particularly underlined that the Urban Railway in Bergen was an air-conditioning project. What I pointed out – I actually didn't criticize – was that Hallgeir Langeland follows up the SV's previous position on cutting the construction of Hardangerbrua. There has been a Christian People's Party consistent. We've gone in the past to build Hardangerbrua, and we're still on it. I also refer to what Mr Halleraker said about the environmental accounts in relation to conventional ferries on the same route.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e655	The representative of Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e658	It'll hold. The representative Halleraker gave me a visit. With regard to ferry statistics and Hardangerbrua, we'll look at the whole region and all the connections, including the different high-mountain crossings. What he did not mention were other projects, the desire in the region to improve racial protection, studies on driving time and studies on driving costs, all the factors that make it possible to look at the traffic base and hence the revenue base of the bridge in order to ensure safety around the project. That should be everyone's concern. So he mentioned, without mentioning it, the Jondal Tunnel, which was completed in 2001. We're now in 2007. The point of linking costs and calculations to a project completed in 2001 is that it is in the same neighbourhood, and it is the same type of project. As we see it, there are indications that this has been very generously appreciated. If you just start from what you know, the identical tunnel in the same area, the price picture looks more comfortable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e667	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e683	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e690	The case concerns the progress made in the development of the emergency network adopted in the past in Stortinget, and the re-priority of appropriations for 2007 and 2008. As explained in St.prp. No 1, the supplier is delayed in its delivery of the emergency network. Initial progress plan indicated that most of the first stage development would take place in 2007. However, in line with the revised plan, it is assumed that the network will be ready for use in Eastfold, Follo, Oslo, Romerike, Asker, Bærum and Søndre Buskerud police districts in November 2008, i.e. approx. eight months delay in relation to the original propulsion plan. The Ministry of Justice assumes that expenditure in 2007 as a result of the delay of the supplier is lower than previously expected and lower than that foreseen in the 2008 budget. In view of this delay, the Ministry of Justice proposes to reduce the appropriations for Item 1, Operating expenditure by 46,327 million. kr in 2007. In addition, an up-to-date assessment of the progress of the work in relation to the payment milestones of the contract shows that in excess of 100 million. kr for item 45, Larger equipment purchases and maintenance, will not be paid to the supplier in 2007. It will therefore be transferred to 2008. At the same time, there is no need for allocation to the post in 2007, as it is sufficient to use unused funds transferred from 2006. The Ministry of Justice therefore proposes to reduce the allocation of Item 45 by 7,881 million. NOK 2007 to NOK 0. A unanimous committee has noted that the emergency network project is eight months late in relation to the initial propulsion plan, in view of the fact that the supplier Nokia Siemens Networks AS revealed during the planning work that key delivery activities will take more time than expected. In the interest of quality, the development plans have therefore been revised. However, the Committee assumes that the planned evaluation will be carried out and that the Storting will be briefed on this before the development of Phase 2. I assume that the parties themselves may make other comments. With that, I'm putting forward the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e703	It is actually 364 days since the last time we dealt with the matter of emergency networks in Stortinget. At the time, it was essential to have the matter dealt with quickly to prevent the risk of a postponement of the first stage of development. The case was dealt with at Stortinget within 14 days of its submission until it had been examined by decision. At the time, the Progress Party was very critical that the Committee did not have more time to seek views and to hold consultations in order to obtain different views and to ensure that the Committee was properly dealt with. We therefore think that there is something special when we now feel that the development will actually be over eight months delayed, when it was so crucial 364 days ago to have the matter dealt with just to avoid delays in the first stage of development. I have also registered that the Minister of Defence has stated that the defence will no longer deal with Siemens, because it now appears that the defence staff are targeted for possible corruption from among others. Siemens. It becomes interesting that it is perfectly proper for the State that one department should be able to agree with a company with which another department is not allowed to act, because there has been a suspicion of illegality. Where is the logic of this? I also register that in this case KOFA has found a breach of the law on public procurement in relation to the agreement concluded with Siemens on deliveries to the emergency network. It's interesting to know how the Council of States will follow this up. Otherwise, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to say that it is important to keep progress now, and that we will not have a new suspension of the establishment of the emergency network in Norway until next year. Because it's essential that it gets in place, and that you can start using it, so that the different floors now get the emergency network that you've long wanted to put in place. We're glad that now it seems that we're there. I therefore hope that the Council of State will be able to answer some of the questions I have raised, to ensure that in November 2008 the first stage of development of the emergency network will be opened.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e714	I was particularly pleased with the end of the post by the representative Hoksrud. There were good reasons to deal with it so quickly when we dealt with it in Stortinget last time. Just getting the amount of time you got was a prerequisite to get this going fast. I'm going to think that if you had put it off that time, we wouldn't be talking about eight months' postponement today, but maybe about a longer postponement. So the reason they chose to treat it quickly 364 days ago was that several parties saw the need to get a new emergency connection in place as soon as possible. It is important because it is of safety importance, but it is also important in terms of investigation, and it is important in terms of employment and communication, which is crucial for our emergencies. I am pleased that the representative, Mr Hoksrud, finally underlined the need for this to be put in place as soon as possible. It's my responsibility and my business in our management of the directorate, which is now going to get this in place. Let there be no doubt that we work every day so that this is now time-consuming, because it is so crucial. I believe that it is actually one of the most important tools that Norwegian police and even emergency services get, not only to create security, but also to create better opportunities for investigation. As regards the contractual aspects, and the questions raised by the representative Hoksrud on the agreement itself with Siemens, and also the question of the proceedings in KOFA, I have to refer to my seat State Council in the case, Trond Giske, who has also replied to the control and constitution committee on the issues such as: Hoksrud travels. It would not be right for me to go into these questions at this round, given that it is Trond Giske who acts as the Council of State in the contract law relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e723	First, I would like to thank you for the small answer I received – that was not that much. But I understand that it is the Council of State that has responded to it by the Committee of Control and Constitution. However, I think it is something special that the Council of State refers to the proceedings the last time, as it was not found anywhere that it was due to the kind of postponement that we have now experienced, and that the Council of State says that if you had had a proper and responsible procedure in the committee, you would have an even longer postponement in this. I think it's taking it easy. In fact, I think it's quite serious. When that case was pending, there was no presumption of a possible postponement of up to eight months. I also think it is a little special that the Council of State will not go into the problem that I am drawing up about this because the Minister of Defence has now said that you do not want to enter into new agreements with Siemens, where I am then challenging whether it is such that one department will be prohibited to enter into an agreement with a company, while another department would like to enter into an agreement with the same company. I think that after what has come up, and if this turns out to be keeping goals in the right forums, Siemens is a company that will clean up the very things that have now come up. But I think it's a little special that the government doesn't have a clear and unambiguous answer as to whether you want to trade with Siemens, or whether you don't want to trade with Siemens. One government council says you don't want to do that, while other government councils keep trading with this company.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e734	Unfortunately, I just have to insist with the representative Hoksrud that when the rules of the Stability Code are implemented as they do in this case, and the Government in dealing with such a large contract as the emergency network contract has chosen to exercise caution because of the issues of stability, I have to show restraint by sea to enter into it, as it has actually been dealt with by another government council. I have awakened to go into the contractual issues. I ask you to understand that. I would think that the reaction might have been different if I had started going into the question. With regard to the postponement and the passage of time here, the circumstances which justify a postponement, and for which the rapporteur has explained well, have come up after the treatment which was carried out here in Stortinget. So this is not related to choosing a quick treatment here in Stortinget last. I want to say that in that case, there are new conditions that have affected the postponement, and that were not ruled by when we discussed this last. What was my small point was that I think it was very important that the Storting did it quickly, so you started this question. At the same time, as well as well as being well explained by the rapporteur, by a unanimous committee and also by the department, it is also true that, among other things: for quality reasons chooses to apply the process as it has now been done. I think that's crucial. It's a huge and important procurement that the public makes. It's important with the formal. It is the government invited by, among others. the control and constitution committee to respond to. And you have to do that, because I think it's important just to keep these processes clear, while it's important that it's phased in in a real and serious way, so it gets the function that we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e743	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1536]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e759	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e768	This has been a long process in an important matter. Entra Eiendom has been through thorough investigations of the National Audit Office, not only once, but twice. Equally many times, the Committee has examined the matter, for the first time also with its own consultation. The scope of the case is reflected in the settings put forward by the Committee, with the many annexes in it. This is a big and important thing. Entra manages large amounts on behalf of the community and performs important services for the country. That's why it's important to go into this so thoroughly. So there are two settings that exist today. The first, Innst. S. No 124 for 2006-2007, was sent back to the Committee. It is then resubmitted with an additional setting, Innst. S. No 100 for 2007-2008. Strict requirements must be imposed on companies. Everyone in government and management of state companies should know that what they do is not only to tolerate the light of the day, but also critical light from the media and others. This means that it might be felt that the requirements are even more stringent than for other industries. That's the way it has to be. This applies to both the requirements for documentation of what is done, for executive remuneration, for bonus schemes and other matters, and not least to the essential requirement that the company follow the guidelines given by the Stortingen for the activities adopted. The Committee has asked for an explanation of the Storting as a matter of its own. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, there has been a raging development in Entra Eiendom. The number of properties managed by the company has increased since the company was started, as has the proportion of private tenants. Entra has also been involved in major development projects, such as: Bjørvika. The second reason is that the Riksrevision in its report maintains that Entra's business ideas and strategy in some areas have changed in relation to what was the premise for the formation of companies. The third reason is that the Control and Constitutional Committee has also previously asked for a statement on Entra Eiendom as its own case. Although the Stortinget has been told about Entra on various occasions, an overall committee now asks that there be a separate case about the company. I think that's wise, not least for the company's part, but also for putting behind you uncertainties and doubts that are created. So we want a strong foundation for Entra Eiendom. A new case whether the company could contribute to it. Let me just briefly mention that in the first setting, the Right and Advance Party have a wish to move forward with a partial privatisation or listing of the company. I, and the majority, disagree with that. Entra Eiendom is a company that serves the state well and that has not least a good tool to provide public enterprises with premises. I can't see that there is anything in this, which was supposed to mean postponing the company for privatisation or, for that matter, further competition. Entra is currently operating in a competitive market, but it is therefore state-wide. It is not common for an opinion to go back to committee, as happened with the first vote, but in this case it was absolutely necessary. The National Audit Board’s ad hoc module found that several of the property transactions were untransparent, without sufficient traceability and documentation. The Committee has now received assurances that this will be sorted out. In addition, the Riksrevision did not get the information they needed, and some of the information they received was not correct either. This is something that the Committee finds critical. The Storting must be able to exercise its control function, including: by means of the Riksrevisionen, the Riksrevisionen must be given the correct information. This is obvious, but sometimes it's necessary to even point out the obvious. In addition, let me stress that the Riksrevision has not documented any facts that would indicate that someone has gained an unfair or unlawful advantage at the company's expense. The Committee also questions the behaviour of the Management Board, or rather the fact that the Management Board has not acted. The board of directors should have taken hold at an earlier date of the property transactions to which it is referred, which were within the authority of the Director. The Committee welcomes the assurance that this has now been cleared up. A new management system is in place, and this management system should help to avoid this kind of thing in the future. Finally, let me underline how important the control task of the Storting is. This case shows it with all possible clarity. That means having confidence in the companies we have, and the Stortinge exercise the control function through the Riksrevision. This case fully indicates that it has been very necessary, and that it has now been cleaned up. In this way you can create a good and new foundation for Entra Eiendom, which is an important company in the state's portfolio. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e798	It is a very comprehensive and thorough study that is being carried out in the Grand Duchy of Great Britain today. The main purpose of the Riksrevision with this survey was to see if Entra Eiendom AS has purchased and sold properties with a good commercial standing and in line with the Storting decision and assumptions. There is reason to give the Riksrevision honor to the thoroughness, content and form of the material presented. The primary purpose of Entra Eiendom is to meet the country’s needs for premises in the competitive market. The company was set free, on the basis of commercial considerations, to sell or rent out to others the premises exempted from leases with state tenants. These properties must also be developed for private use. This will help to streamline the use of office premises by the country. However, it is a prerequisite for the company to focus the purchase and development of new properties on state activities. This implies that the purchase and development of new properties directly targeted at county and municipal actors falls outside the Company's Storting assumptions. The company has in several cases waited for several years to clarify the use of the property or the organisational location of the ownership company. The National Audit Office questions whether this is in accordance with Storting’s intentions. The disclosure serves a public need, related to making property information publicly available. Transparency about property transactions contributes, inter alia, to: to prevent corruption and maladministration. Those who manage the property of the community have a special responsibility to be precise with such legislation, thereby leading by example. The relationship between Cort Adele's street illustrates with all clarity the risk the company's owners and the board of directors take by accepting that the discretion of lessees and the company's own employees is the only relevant basis for assessing whether the conditions of ownership are marketable. The supplementary report of the National Audit Office clearly shows that Entra Eiendom has provided incomplete and incorrect information in relation to the factual description in Document No. 3:2. Of course, it is very unfortunate that not all information is provided to the National Audit Office. The fact that central transaction archives have in addition been deficient does not make matters any better. I am pleased that the Council of State has addressed the critical issues identified in the comprehensive study, which has led to the company's practice being adjusted in a number of areas. This testifies to the power of action of the Council of State. I look forward to the matter that the Committee has now asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e813	With regard to Entra and the study for the Riksrevision, I would like to say that we in the Progress Party are pleased that the Riksrevision commissioned the study. We agree with the Riksrevision that there were clear and clear indications that the company did not follow the Storting's assumptions when it came to the purpose that would guide the company. It was supposed to be to provide premises for state agencies, and when there was something available in a building where there were mainly state tenants, one could possibly get away to private tenants if there was no state to recover. It is clear that a situation developed in Entra that it was right to do something about. It was also natural that it was replaced by rule. So we see that it was in the right place to tighten up, because it's clear that at the moment that Entra might also look at the private market, it could get in both bag and bag. As a major lessor to state agencies, the fixed secure revenues – without risk at the bottom – that other competing real estate companies do not want. Either Entra has to be what it should be, that is, a company that has to provide state agencies with good and reasonable premises for its operations, or it has to enter into the open, competitive market and provide premises for all and operate profit-driven purposes, but that is no longer the reason for the State to be the sole owner of the company. Therefore, the Progress Party notes that if the trend of the former board and the former management to start using their great advantages as a state-owned company to compete with individuals who have risk tenants, it must be tightened up and made sure that this does not happen. If that is to happen, there is no reason why the State should sit as its sole owner. Then it can be sub-privatized. Then it gets a completely different role. I am pleased that the Government has for the moment stated that it will stick to the original purpose. I assume the Council of State will make sure that that happens. I also allow myself to point out that when we had hearings and investigations, it was made clear by the National Audit Office in my opinion some strange authority structure in the company that adm. The Director had powers to do transactions for 100 million. kr without asking the board. Obviously, the then board should have been much more careful not to give that type of authority. I expect that the necessary changes have been made to the structure of powers. I would also ask the Council of State to be aware of this relationship, if it is not already settled. So to the latest developments in what will also have to do with Ecocrim. We got an additional vote from the Riksrevision, and the committee writes on page 16 of the vote: ‘The Committee points out that the Riksaudieren writes in its exclaimed additional opinion on Entra Eiendom that ‘questions can be asked about whether the purchaser of Cort Adels Gate 33 has obtained an unreasonable advantage at the expense of Entra Eiendom AS’. In addition, the Riksrevision asks questions about the repurchase of Fritzner's Gate 12. The Committee considers that no satisfactory explanation has been found for these two transactions and points out that during the hearing the Chairperson informed that the Board of Directors has asked Veritas to extend its investigation into the purchase and sale of Fritzner's Gate 12.’;» In these days, when you are concerned about – let's say – the issue of corruption, I hope that the Council of State will follow up on this, in case it turns out that the purchaser of Cort Adele's gate has received an unreasonable advantage at the expense of Entra Eiendom AS, and that there may be people in Entra who at that time may have contributed to this for other reasons. In other contexts, you will be aware of something called return commission. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that he, as the owner of Entra, will also follow up if the investigations to Veritas show that there may have been something from someone affected by the Penal Code at the time of Entra. I allow myself to take up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e836	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e839	The development of the Entra Eiendom AS case is somewhat reminiscent of the word ‘up like a lion and down like a skin trap’. The case has been followed by tensions both in the public sector, in the company and in the media. It was exposed in ours, as we have said, after the adjustment was made, to get more information on the table. However, the new letter from the National Audit Office did not give the matter any larger dimensions, as it had probably made an impression in advance. Personally, I would like to say that at least there may be something to learn from this matter. If you take the time to, for example: to read through the minutes of the hearing, it can be seen that there is at least some experience to gain from the political process. I even participated in Stortinget's treatment at the time the Staten rental building AS, as it was first called, was separated from the administrative part of State Building. It is clear to me that, on the one hand, it was quite right to implement this divorce. On the other hand, it's as clear that several of us, despite the good intentions, were a little bit blue-eyed. To think that it was just to brush state properties and capital out into the open, so to say, to leave it all to itself in an increasingly commercial property market, was perhaps a little naive. In the case of Entra, it is then easy to see that the Storting's assumptions and primary purpose of the company, to obtain housing for state enterprises, were not simply combined with making money for the company. And it's not hard to see that it was both natural and necessary to extend the perspective beyond the scope of the Stortinget vision at the time. Much indicates that this was already clear when the board adopted the company's business idea and strategy in December 2000. «State purpose» was expedited for «public purpose»; it was natural to include municipal and county premises. Not least, it was also possible to widen the scope of the private market after all — in and on a case-by-case basis. Entra's involvement in more risky OPS projects was not quite right, and the Riksaudition asked questions, among others. in the case of the performance pay scheme, and in the case of the performance reporting carried out, have given a true and fair view of the results generated by the company. What is also left is, among other things. communication between the company, at the board of directors, and the owner has been good enough. There has been a lack of clarity and transparency in the relationship in several phases. Not least the way it has been communicated. In particular, there is reason to stress the lack of evidence of processes and decisions relating to the purchase and sale of properties. It's critical. On the positive side, it can be mentioned that there is no evidence that the company has traded properties or made transactions that have resulted in someone obtaining an unfair advantage at the company's expense. There is also reason to believe that most stones have been turned around to find weaknesses in the way the company has been run. As I said, the Committee has agreed on most of the points, and it could have been enough to refer to the comments and statements made by the rapporteur, which were a good summary. At one point the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee asked for a statement on Entra Eiendom in a case of its own to the Stortinget. The government announced on its side that this would come in connection with St.prp. No 1 for the 2004-2005 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. Instead, it came in St. prp. No 65 for 2004-2005, and then it was only taken into account by a unanimous financial committee. In this respect, both the government and the company have probably acted on the assumption that the Stortinget was satisfied with the way the company worked, and the strategies put in place. Finally, let me mention the failure that occurred when the board initially decided to change the main strategy for the company without the Stortinget being given the opportunity to discuss this. This should have been done by the government then. So you could say that the Storting has itself to thank for not having followed the class. But it is not always as easy when the matter is moved from one department to another and the briefings given to the Stortinget are received by different committees at different times, such as here. This shows how demanding the art of communication can sometimes be. In the Entra case, later judgment is given whether it has ended up with the right proportions. As I started to suggest, someone can each have something to learn from this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e865	I refer to Innst. S. No 124 for 2006-2007 and Innst. S. No 100 for 2007-2008. I notice that the Control and Constitutional Committee has critical comments on some aspects of the operation in Entra Eiendom and on the company's strategies. I agree that the study points to improvement points in the company's operations. That's something that I, based on the committee's majority comments, will focus on in my further contact with the company. However, I would first like to draw the positive conclusions on which the study has based. Entrepreneur’s activities have largely focused on the main objective. There has been a significant increase in the areas rented out to the country and other public tenants. The study, which ran up to the end of 2005, shows that the company has implemented extensive value-added measures. The 2006 accounts show that this value added has continued and that Entra has also created added value in 2006 in addition to the owner’s returns. The increase in value has occurred despite a significant increase in interest rates and shows that interest rates cannot explain the development of value alone. I believe that there is reason to conclude that the establishment of Entra as a private company has been essentially successful. So to some improvement points: the Committee asks the Government to make sure that Entra follows up the Riksrevision report and the Committee's comments. The company started concrete work in the summer of 2006 to improve its routines. The new procedures are now approved by the Management Board and the work is documented in a new quality management system, the Entra model. More recent improvements have been made in the model and it has been focused on implementation and enforcement. The Ministry is kept informed about the further development of the model. The Committee notes the company's bonus schemes. The Ministry has had contact with the Management Board to ensure that the company’s own contribution to the value creation is properly reflected. The head of the company’s board of directors has informed the department that the company will replace the EFTA calculations with calculations showing how well Entra is doing in relation to other actors. It should better reflect the company's own performance. I note that the Committee is pleased that the board of directors of the company has decided to wind up a collective pension scheme for the management group which was contrary to the existing state rules. The failure of that scheme has been partially compensated by wage adjustments, but without Entra appearing to be the wage leader in its industry. Furthermore, the Governing Board considers the establishment of a long-term incentive scheme for the leadership group within the framework of national guidelines. It is the Board that is responsible for the recruitment and remuneration of managers. However, following the amendments to the Shares Act, the Boards shall provide a briefing to the General Assembly on the remuneration of directors and proposals for forward-looking remuneration guidelines. By doing so, I want to make sure that the management compensation in Entra is in line with the guidelines of the State. It was underlined by the State representative at the annual general meeting of the company. The Committee points out that the ad hoc module reveals that several of the property transactions were untransparent, without sufficient traceability and evidence. Furthermore, the Committee asks the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, in cooperation with the company, to follow up on the work to put in place new procedures to ensure sound documentation relating to the purchase and sale of properties. In a limited liability company, the board of directors must control the activities on behalf of the owners. The Board of Directors, as mentioned above, launched a broader review and development of the internal control system in the company last summer. A thorough review of the company’s documentation procedures is central. The Committee’s and the National Audit Office’s observations and assessments have made a useful contribution to that work. The head of board informed the department in a meeting in the spring that the board had under assessment the establishment of a separate internal audit plan at the initiative of the administration. The company has confirmed that such a scheme has now been implemented. There is no evidence that management’s powers in Entra differ from those of well-run private enterprises. Authorisations are essential for the execution of commercial transactions. However, it is important that they are linked to specific assumptions and good practices in order to inform about the use of authorisations. In Entra, 76 pst. of the transactions within the Executive Director’s mandate limits have been dealt with by the Management Board. The Committee is of the opinion that Entra provided insufficient information and information that was incorrect or inaccurate in its examination of the case. It has been unfortunate that not all information was provided to the National Audit Office in the first place. I have been concerned with full openness and that all the stones will be turned around in this matter. This is also continuously underlined to the board of Entra. The fact that the board of directors engaged Veritas to re-examine the transactions in question in order to settle the matter shows that the board has taken the criticism seriously. The Committee requests the presentation of its own case to the Stortinget. Of course, I am prepared to present a separate case about Entra, the company's device and strategy when Stortinget wants it. I see it as an important task to ensure that the management of Entra is in line with the Storting assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e891	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1536]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e907	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e916	The Committee refers to the Riksrevision's examination of the collection and local control of employers by the tax collectors, in Document No. 3:10 for 2006-2007, dated 1 June 2007. We stress the importance of the follow-up of this matter by the Government. This is a new study, after two studies have been carried out by the National Audit Office, Document No. 3:12 for 1999-2000 and Document No 3:5 for 2001-2002, focusing on whether the application of the residual tax was practised as intended, and assessing the extent and quality of the state control of employers. The Committee would recall that the Ministry of Finance followed up these documents and briefed the Stortinget in Riksrevision's Document No. 3:1 for 2005-2006. There may be reason to recall that the overall objective of the tax bill is to ensure the correct establishment and payment of taxes and taxes, with the two central tasks of collecting taxes and monitoring employers’ reporting and paying taxes and employers’ taxes. The system is based on the fact that municipal tax collection offices are responsible for both collection and control. However, as the Committee has understood the situation, the collection result and use of instruments has for many years varied widely between municipalities. The Committee would recall that the overall tax collection works well in our country, with a total of 99.7 pst. tax equalisation is paid. The National Audit Office’s study may therefore be seen as marginal, as – as the Committee sees it – it focuses primarily on the outstanding 0.3 pst. of tax havens. One of the questions relating to the introduction of these tax suspensions has been the question of the appropriateness of coercion. If it is to be used, it is also essential that it can produce some desired results and that it does not produce any undesirable results. In connection with this discussion, I had a meeting, together with some of the Committee's members, with the Association for Municipal Finance Management and Tax Enquiry, NKK, and a meeting with the Local Government Interest and Employers' Organisation, KS. They made their views known, and these views were forwarded to the Committee. In this context, the Committee notes that the early collection of taxes also calls for a greater proportion of the requirements, stressing the importance of the fastest possible collection process. It is the Committee's view that this process should not be at the expense of taxpayers' rights but that it should be practised and exercised in its implementation. From the NKK and KS there were clear signals that both the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Directorate actually want minimal use of bankruptcy requests against personal taxpayers, representing the 0.3 pst. of taxes outstanding and unpaid, as noted by the Committee. The Committee also recognises that the use of coercive measures against people who are incapacitated is a poor tool, as a whole 70 pst. by this group of persons consists of cases of unsubmitted declaration and hence discretionary settlement, unknown bopel, bankruptcy, serious illness and other specific reasons. The Committee recognises that instruments need to be adapted where debtors have a willingness to pay but lack the ability to pay. Today's collection system has many positive elements that should be continued. We have also noticed that the investigation confirms that forced sales and bankruptcy are used to a very small extent by the tax collection offices, as the instruction says that the department should be restrained from requesting ordinary employees to bankruptcy. It is clear that tax collection offices must follow the instructions they have from their general authorities, which are the Tax Directorate and the Ministry of Finance. Finally, I would like to say that this whole system has been examined quite thoroughly, and while the Committee is working on its case, the Solberg Committee gave its opinion on 6 November 2007. The Committee, appointed by the Ministry of Renewal and Administration on 21 September 2005 to review the public collection apparatus for improvements, concludes that all government collection of bills that have not been paid should be collected in a single establishment. The Committee as a committee does not address this issue, since it is not the responsibility of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and because it is a matter for the Government to consider and decide on first, and then the Stortinge gets into the picture when the Government has completed its work and, where appropriate, makes proposals to the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e933	The present report from the Riksrevision is a follow-up to previous studies on the levying of taxes and the local control of employers. At this stage, the employers examined are subject to the discretionary control of the tax collectors and the local control of the tax collectors in relation to the residual tax. The study shows that there are still wide variations between municipalities, both in terms of time, amount and use of different call measures in the levying of residual taxes. There are also wide variations in the control coverage between municipalities in the case of employers’ checks. An effective call for taxes and a well-functioning control of employers is of great social importance. Despite the weaknesses of the National Audit Office in its report, there is reason to stress that the tax collection in Norway is working well. Good for 99 pst. tax equalisation is paid. The residual tax is only a small part of the tax. A large part of the tax that is not paid applies to persons from whom it could be difficult to obtain payments. There are, to a large extent, people who have not provided a self-declaration and who are similar in their judgements, including: persons who have no known address or telephone, unmediated persons and others in difficult life situations. The use of coercive measures against those who are in a difficult situation in life has little effect and is a poor tool. Local tax collectors, especially in smaller places, often have a good knowledge of whom they may have any intention of using coercive measures. Otherwise, the size has been concerned in the past that you also have to take other considerations into account with people who have payment problems, such as: public creditors must also contribute to debt regimes where appropriate. As regards the control of employers, the Riksrevision points out among other things. that the controls are not enough and good enough, especially in smaller municipalities. I would like to stress that good control of employers is important in order to detect tax evasion and undeclared work. At the same time, it is important to stress that variations in control coverage may also be related to different industrial structures. For example, 57 pst. by employers concentrated in 11 pst. by the municipalities, and 54 pst. of the smaller municipalities have only 14 pst. by employers. In small municipalities, the nutritional basis is also well known for the tax collector. That nothing is revealed in almost half, or about. 43 p.m., of the checks, can also be seen as positive and show that the companies are careful in their accounting work. The Christian People's Party believes that local knowledge in tax collection also contributes to the better of tax collection. We therefore see it as important to continue to maintain this function in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e952	I would also like to comment on the suspension of the Solberg Committee, NOU 2007:12, on public collection, which concludes that all government collection of bills that have not been paid should be collected in one establishment. It addresses one of the most important discussions on this issue, who should be responsible for the collection – whether it remains a municipal responsibility as today, or whether it should be brought together in one state agency. From the Central Party we will warn against a state-making of the collection system. This could have a major impact on the municipal sector. The municipalities will lose their idiosyncrasies, which will enable them to demand their own municipal requirements. Such a solution would mean that, in the future, municipalities would need to be helped by this central collection setaside, or, alternatively, by someone else, to collect any municipal claims that are not paid at maturity. I would like to express my scepticism about making it public and further red tape of the tax collection, which I believe is a consequence of this proposal. Centralisation of obligor-adapted collection will result in poorer communication and contact between tax collectors and taxpayers. There is a major challenge in tax collection relating to tax suspensions in which income and tax have previously been determined on the basis of judgement. Knowledge of these discretionary requirements suggests that very many of these taxpayers do not have the ability to service their debts, and it is unlikely that a government agency will be able to handle this job better than local collectors. I would like to stress that several of these debtors are already disadvantaged citizens, who could not have a state agency as well as municipal collectors. Therefore, further governmentisation of the tax collection could have consequences for the recovery result also for a government budget, and it is likely that more bureaucracy and misassessments will be achieved in relation to this debtor group. Local responsibility for tax collection has positive consequences for district policy. Today’s decentralised location means maintaining the collection environments and jobs in outlying areas. It also means that local business has a short way to one of its main public partners. Thus, any governmentisation will mean centralisation, and a reduction in the number of offices – it is claimed to be down to a quarter of the number of offices we have today – will have negative regional policy consequences. The overall objective of the tax bill is to ensure the correct establishment and payment of taxes and charges, with the two central tasks of collecting taxes and monitoring employers' reporting and paying taxes and employers' taxes. We have a system that is based on the fact that municipal tax collection offices are both responsible for collection and control, which I observe is that the control works well. Municipal tax collectors do a good job with tax collection. The high percentage collected shows it: well over 99 pst. The continuation of local collection will facilitate the use of local knowledge in the collection process. This can be done in a better way also by other considerations The size has previously been involved in relation to individuals who have payment problems, for example through the use of debt regimes where appropriate. Finally, I would just like to say that the municipal tax collection has broad support in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e967	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1536]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e983	Firstly, the proposal for a representative proposes that the extension of the possibility for municipalities to print property taxes adopted in the spring of 2006 be reversed. The proposers want property taxes to be levied only on ‘works and uses’ and on properties in urbanly developed areas. Secondly, the proposal proposes that a maximum limit be set on the 30 pst tax charge base for the issue of property tax. the market value. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the representatives of the Government Parties, recommends that the draft representative be rejected. A minority, consisting of the representatives of the Party of Advancement and the Right, is re-promoting the two concrete proposals, and I assume that the various fractions will further explain their views. It's probably not more than six months since we last had a rather heated debate in this room on another proposal for a representative relating to property taxes. It was the proposal of the Progress Party to terminate the entire access of municipalities to the issue of property taxes. As you know, property tax is a highly emotional issue, and it will probably also show today's debate. The Christian People's Party has the same starting point today as the last time we debated the matter. We assume that municipalities should have the opportunity to print property taxes, and rely on local policy judgement to decide whether or not to use the right. In this respect, it is also necessary that the legislation be designed in such a way that printing can be carried out in the most appropriate manner, both for reasons of efficiency and fairness. At the same time, we want the municipalities that actually print property taxes to focus on social concerns when the tax is designed. When the matter was finally up, the Christian People's Party and the Left promoted three concrete legislative proposals to strengthen the emphasis on social concerns in the law on property taxes. We refer to these proposals also in this case, and ask the Government to consider this when carrying out the announced reassessment of the different rules for the depreciation of property taxes. The Christian People's Party and the Left are further promoting a new proposal in the vote, which would strengthen the distribution of tax considerations even better if it were followed up. For proposal No 2, from those representatives, I would like to say that even if we do not support it, there is sometimes so little consistent practice between different municipalities in terms of the taxing itself, that the proposal is absolutely relevant. It must not be the address and not the market value that will determine the fare. Such differences, if extreme, will also be clearly unreasonable in the population. Moreover, I would like to leave to the representatives of the Right to make their principal arguments against a change in the law that a Finance Minister from the Right has not long argued for. With that I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1004	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1007	It's been about six months since we last discussed municipal property taxes in this hall. Like the representative of the Christian People's Party, the majority is committed to the position that we had before. The background to the proposal is likely to be the extended possibility for municipalities to impose property taxes throughout the municipality, because in the revised 2006 national budget, an opening was adopted for municipalities to issue property taxes for the entire municipality, only in the context of ‘urban construction, and/or works and use’. The aim of the change was to eliminate unfair discrimination within the same municipality, eliminate legal ambiguity and increase the choice of municipalities. The majority believe that it is still a right policy. The opposition likes to call this a cabin tax. I think that's a little strange, because it's not allowed just to charge cabins property taxes. It is therefore pointless to refer to parts of this property tax as a so-called cab tax. The municipality cannot print property taxes only in cabin areas. The choice is between the entire municipality or within the urban community. I would also like to remind the House of the following: Property tax is a municipal income source amounting to DKK 4.4 billion in 2006, i.e. in relation to the estimate in St. Prp. No 1 for 2006-2007. This means that if property taxes are removed, municipal income is reduced by approximately NOK 4.4 billion. The consequences of this may be reduced in the welfare provision of municipalities. The municipality decides whether or not to have property tax, the level at which it is to be held and whether or not to provide for the differentiation of the rates. We have no reason to assume anything but that through local democracy, local authorities are setting up property taxes so that they are perceived as reasonable to the inhabitants. The rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, Mr Syversen, points out that social concerns are not adequately addressed in some municipalities. There are circumstances that should be followed up in the municipalities concerned, as far as possible within the current legislation. But in general, as in all other cases, we should also be open here to adjust the legislation, if it turns out that there is a need for this for strong reasons of justice. The majority therefore do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1024	Now there is no doubt about what the Progress Party believes in this matter and about property tax in general, as we clearly say about, and which emerges clearly at the beginning of the party program of the Advance Party. We want to repeal the Property Tax Act, which we repeatedly repeat in election campaigns, and which we have proposed several times here in Stortinget – at the latest in the form of a representative proposal before the summer holiday, which unfortunately only received the votes of the Progress Party. We also point that out in our comments on this matter. Property taxes are a survival from old days when property meant wealth and ability to pay taxes, at a time when income taxes were not very fertile. The property tax happens randomly and unsocially, and not at all according to ability. Property tax is a particularly unfair form of double taxation, since the tax does not relate to whether one has had any return on the property. We also know that property is taxed several times, as taxes have already been paid on the wages and salaries for which the property is acquired, as well as the document fee when buying the property, where appropriate the inheritance tax, and the value added tax on the costs. Furthermore, the property is already subject to taxes on wealth. After this so-called cab tax was introduced, I have received several enquiries from the desperate pensioners, who have saved for many years to buy a cabin that they have planned to enjoy in the retirement life. And then all of a sudden, this cabin tax, which affects the lonely elderly, often has only the minimum pension as income. You have pensioners who will find it difficult to pay this tax on a property that can have a high market value, pensioners who have a house that has been paid off over a long life and at the same time may need huge costs. This also affects families with children, families with children at the start-up stage, which often have a high debt burden. The tax is particularly unreasonable in the case of cabins, as the owner of the cabin lives in another municipality and thus does not have the right to vote and influence in the municipality. It's a crossroads of thought that we in Norway are flooding with money. We will soon pass NOK 2 500 billion in wealth, and yet Norwegian citizens will be flogged. Municipal taxes and taxes then come to the top of already unfair and high taxes and taxes. Then I record here in Stortinget talking loudly about that the state should increase taxes and charges. The progress party would have liked to have removed the entire property tax, but understands that we are alone in this matter. As a step in the right direction, we support the right representative's proposal to abolish the so-called cab tax and limit the level of property tax. In conclusion, I will address the proposals we have with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1041	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1044	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who, although we are not entirely in agreement this time, always presents matters in a balanced and good way. I fully agree with him when he says that taxes on property and housing are emotional in this country, for good reasons, but I also think that feelings are often icy a certain rationality, for the taxation of the homes of the North is constantly increasing during this government. The increase in the value of the equation of property has become a yearly phenomenon, where the only stress factor is whether to add 10 or 15 pst., maybe it could be more. The extension of the property tax law is a step in the same wrong direction. 80 pst. of us own our owner-occupiers and leisure homes. We live in special climatic circumstances, and we spend a lot of our time, energy and financial resources through a long life managing our own housing assets. This is a significant socio-economic plus value, which is rewarded by the authorities with ever-increasing taxes, in addition to the fact that VAT has already been paid on housing investment and on maintenance, and that purchases and maintenance are, of course, carried out for taxed resources – we hope. Yes, even work on owner-occupied dwellings is initially taxable, but with the exception of ordinary leisure, i.e. completed leave or transferred leave from the previous year in accordance with carefully specified rules in the practice of equations. It shows how much you really are after the housing owners. The Bondevik II government has abolished the tax on owner-occupancy and recreational housing, and fortunately the current government has not spoken out for the time being about reintroducing it. However, there are other methods used, such as: the extension of the possibility of imposing taxes on property. This expansion is unfortunate and could increase the total tax on dwellings and cabins. One has already seen examples of the possibility being seized by, in particular, municipalities with many cabins. I think there is good reason to use the name ‘cot tax’. This extension allows you to use that name. I understand that the representative Agdestein thinks it is annoying. For the cabin owners, the treasure is also annoying. This extension also poses a democratic problem by the fact that owner-occupiers charged with property taxes do not have any political influence, because of course they do not have the right to vote in the municipality. In addition, local rates are often random, and property taxes are unsocial, since they do not take into account the ability of taxpayers to pay or income ratios, so that there is a poor distribution profile. For this reason it is also surprising that the red-green government wants such an extension. In order to avoid some of this problem, our proposal also contains a maximum limit of 30 p.p., as is the case for equivalency values in relation to the tax on wealth. This may correct biases in random valuations. Let me also use this opportunity to raise a matter on which the case-rapporteur was concerned. He challenged me to say something about our post-herostratic famous remark from the 2004 tax reform suspension. I am happy to have that opportunity, because it was signed that led to that note in the pen. In that comment, it was quite rightly said that the intention of the government to assess the removal of the current restriction of property taxes, etc., which the Minister of Finance has also written to the Committee in his letter of reply was supported. After all, they asked the government to assess this, and the government evaluated it, and found out that this was not the way you wanted it. This has now been repeated so many times that it appears that this is almost a remarkableness in Norwegian political practice, but it is not. We are still seeing examples of the fact that the current positions – I can take examples from the Financial Committee – generally write comments that meet what the Government wants in its propositions. We've had several such things just this fall. I therefore think it is a little sensational that they have written a comment, asked for an assessment, and that the government has made a different assessment. However, thank you for having this opportunity to take the challenge from the representative Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1059	If there is something special for Norway in relation to countries we usually compare with, it is precisely that taxes on housing and on property are very low. The representative of the Fleet stated in his statement that the new proposal should address a problem of democracy. I have never heard before that for entrepreneurs who have companies around Norway and are taxed in the different cities, there was a problem of democracy that they do not have the right to vote in all places where they had to operate and tax. Nor can I see that it has great consequences for those who have a cabin or leisure property somewhere, not to be able to vote in that municipality. As regards the use of recreational property in Norway, use is increasing. There are people who spend up to half a year on their leisure properties, and they use both the community's health and social services and all other infrastructure. That they are not going to pay taxes to the same municipality, I see that much more unreasonable than they would not be able to vote. Another solution would be that they could vote in multiple places. I've even seen it suggested. I don't expect the Fleet to support that either. The property tax is a voluntary municipal tax. The new rules adopted in the revised 2006 national budget allow municipalities to choose between issuing property taxes for the entire municipality only for urban and/or works and use purposes. The argument for the changes was to eliminate unfair discrimination within the same municipality by removing unclear legislation and giving the municipality greater freedom of choice. It is worth noting that there is no special tax on recreational property, but that municipalities can tax all types of dwellings with equal rates throughout the municipality, regardless of whether the area is urbanly built or not. The earlier demarcation of urban areas could be unclear and difficult to practice. For example, there could be different taxation of other similar properties in the same municipality only based on location, and this could easily be perceived as both unfortunate and unreasonable. The proposers focus specifically on leisure properties. Recreational property will often be located outside urban areas, and property tax on leisure property is a consequence of the extension to the scope of the Property Tax Act. It should be noted, however, that the law does not provide for the printing of property taxes only on leisure property. Then I was going to remind the representative Fleet of a previous remark. He focused so much on it myself that I think it could be over, but it could have been tempting. Finally, I would like to refer to proposal No. 4, from the Left and Christian People's Party, there ‘The government asks the Government to assess the possibilities for allowing municipalities to set a higher rate of municipal property tax on the most expensive dwellings and leisure properties’. This is a proposal I might sympathize with and might well think of looking into. I would like to recommend to the proposers that they convert it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1079	Tax on property versus income tax is an old and very interesting debate. Property tax used to bear the name Matrikkel debt tax, and today it is another name of the form of tax, namely land interest tax or municipal property tax. In the 1882 tax reform, we received taxes on income and wealth. So we got taxes according to our ability. Property tax, land interest tax, is the correction of this principle according to the view of the Centre Party, then under special conditions. We are therefore for rent taxes on oil, and we have rent taxes on land there at 50 p.m. higher than the general rate of taxation for business. We're for rent taxes on hydropower, and there's the rate 30 pst. higher than the general rate of taxation for business. As from the fiscal year 2007, municipalities have the opportunity to issue property taxes throughout the municipality, following the Act on property taxes to the municipalities of 6 June 1975 No. 29, Property Tax Elva, was amended by the Law of 26 June 2006 No. 25-digit number The purpose of the change was to provide the basis for fewer demarcation problems when issuing property taxes and the possibility of greater equality in taxation within each municipality. This has given the municipality an option that previously did not exist. It is erroneous to refer to the change in the law or property tax as a mortgage tax, as the law does not provide for the issue of property taxes only on leisure property. The center party is for the historical system we've had with optional municipal property tax. In recent years, municipal property taxes have been able to be levied only on works and uses. In the view of the Centre Party, what can be used for this occasion is an extra tax on the works and uses that have an income that in the economy is called a superprofit, i.e. that is close to what is profitable in power plants and similar activities. There is no need to charge municipal property taxes on works and uses that do not have a special return, and it is important that municipalities take into account when making the legislation also for works and use. The centre party has also historically been responsible for the output of municipal property taxes in urban buildings. Why has one been? Well, because appreciation of buildings in urban construction has historically had a much more positive development, and then due to public efforts. Thus, public regulation and public use of money have led to a much more positive development of the values of buildings in those areas than buildings elsewhere. The right-hander says in the settings that they generally do not want property taxes. They indicate that 80 pst. owns owner-occupied dwellings in Norway and that the housing should be protected as far as possible for tax purposes. These members believe that dwellings and recreational dwellings are already taxed more than enough and indicate that under the previous government, the tax on the benefits of owner-occupied dwellings was removed and the taxes on wealth on dwellings and recreational dwellings reduced. Yes, the truth is that there is a very favourable tax today on investment in housing and recreational property. This is one of the main reasons why investment in housing and leisure property is much larger each year than the government budgets. Compared with those who currently rent housing, the taxation of those who own a dwelling is very favourable. In particular, it resulted in the removal of the preferential tax on the value of owner-occupied dwellings, while retaining the unlimited debt interest deduction for individuals in investment in dwellings and leisure properties. So that's why we basically broke with the symmetry tax on our own housing. It's a big challenge, and it's a big system problem we're now facing to ensure that society's resources come to the areas where you have a prioritized view that they're coming to. The view of the centre party in the case of municipal taxes on housing, such as other taxes on housing, is that owner-occupied dwellings of normal standard are not to be taxed, neither on income, wealth or property. In the case of the municipal voluntary property tax, municipal government decisions, where one ensures these dwellings by means of a base deduction, differentiated rates and tariff basis, can safeguard the views of the Centre Party, which means that individuals should be stimulated to acquire their own housing of the sober standard. This is an advantage for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1100	First, to the agent Fleet. I am pleased with that description of a central source's history in relation to that note relating to property taxes, but on that basis one must be able to conclude that some principleal resistance may not have been on the Right's side. I guess you wouldn't have been able to ask for an assessment of the property tax system we now have. With regard to Magnar Lund Bergo's desire to look at the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left regarding the most luxurious dwellings, it is clear – after consultation with Sponheim – that there is a temptation to fall. We shall now turn this into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1107	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1536]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1123	The case concerns proposals by the depositors Per-Willy Amundsen, Åge Starheim, Ib Thomsen and Jørund Rytman to investigate the consequences of letting municipal businesses be covered by the ordinary VAT code. The majority of the Committee, made up of government parties and the Christian People's Party, points out that the current general system of VAT compensation was introduced on 1 January 2004. This scheme was established with the intention of eliminating the discrimination between municipal self-production and the purchase by VAT-based operators of which the VAT system gives rise. The majority point out that the general compensation scheme means that municipalities are compensated for the value added tax paid on all goods and services purchased from registered traders. Thus, the VAT will not represent any additional cost of purchasing services from private individuals. The scheme thus does not affect the choice between self-production or purchases from others. The majority are mainly of the opinion that the legislation is designed in line with the recommendations of a wide-ranging selection in NOU 2003: 3 Value added tax and municipalities – distortions of competition between municipalities and private individuals. The majority refers to the sample’s assessments of different options for VAT modeling that would equate municipal self-production and the purchase of services with VAT, and that the sample concluded that the extended VAT obligation would not be feasible as a general solution to the distortions of competition with current funding and the organisation of welfare services. The majority also indicates that the sample would not recommend the extended right of deduction for municipalities either. The government parties and the Christian People's Party point out that in Ot.prp. No 1 for this year proposed amendments to the Law of 12 December 2003 No. 108 on compensation for value added tax for municipalities, counties, etc. The majority point to the fact that the Finnish Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is of the opinion that the extent of municipal activity giving rise to discrimination in the exempted areas of activity of VAT where the municipalities offer services in competition with private individuals for remuneration is limited. Against this background, the parties to the Government do not agree to the proposal. From the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the assessment is different. These members would point out that the Publicly Appointed Committee of Inquiry pointed to a number of practical problems with the extended VAT obligation after going into this subject in depth. These members therefore believe that enlargement should take place more gradually, that this is sufficiently identified by the sample, and that the current system should work a little longer before extensive evaluations are started. At their request, the proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. The members of the Committee of the Regions are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1144	The Advocate General made a balanced statement. Let me just say that both private and municipal businesses provide important services. From the point of view of the overall opposition, it is important that society's resources are used as efficiently as possible and that these services are delivered as best as possible in terms of quality. That was also the reason why a general VAT compensation scheme was introduced under the Bondevik II administration from 1 January 2004 in order to eliminate the discrimination between self-production of services in municipalities and private service providers. It is therefore a central desire from a common civil opposition to review VAT solutions so that such discrimination does not take place and that public service production is as efficient as possible. I am therefore addressing the two proposals on which the Right and other parties stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1151	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1154	As we write in the proposal for a representative, the main aim of this proposal is to find more cost-effective ways to organise municipal administration, thereby improving the offer to its citizens. The proposal will also help to make clear to users and citizens what the different services are actually worth, as well as to make it easier for each municipality to choose a market-oriented policy. The current VAT compensation system is complicated because it has a number of difficult limitations. Some issues related to the VAT compensation scheme are more difficult than others. In the introduction of the VAT compensation scheme, the Municipal Councils’ Central Associations stated that a general system would be easier to manage than the alternatives and also reduce the demarcation problems. However, when the Ministry of Finance, in the form of a letter on 8 March 2006, asked the Municipal Council of Municipalities to assess the administrative burden on the compensation scheme for those entitled to compensation, the KS stated that the reform had to a large extent: «brought to great frustration by nearly all municipalities. Most people believe that they have ‘stopped’ and find it difficult to follow in the complicated back calculations that have been carried out several times’. Unfortunately, the general system of VAT compensation has not met the expectations of improving efficiency and free competition, and we therefore want to take one step towards non-discrimination between municipal and private activities with these proposals. In order to reduce the problems of the current system, it could be natural for all municipal activities to be covered by the ordinary VAT legislation, such as: has done in New Zealand. Such a model involves a general VAT system covering all goods and services and both public and private activities. Ever since I was elected here at Stortinget, I have been contacted by actors from different industries, such as Germany. private secondary schools and private kindergartens, which consider that something needs to be done in order to operate on equal terms with public actors. I have also been contacted by several advisers from my home country, who fully agree that this system is far too complicated and affects unfairly. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party. I would also like to stress that what we are proposing is that we ask the Government to return to the revised national budget in 2008 with assessments and proposals for a system that neutralises the VAT burden on health businesses and central government. I can't see why not all the parties here in Stortinget can participate in such a proposal. The same applies to the proposal where we ask the Government to assess the consequences of including municipal enterprises in the ordinary VAT legislation, including any additional costs for the municipal sector. I repeat, we are asking for an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1174	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1537]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1192	This applies to a proposal to extend the tax-reduction scheme for gifts to voluntary organisations, to increase the limit from NOK 12000 per person. year, as at today, at NOK 15 000 per year. years. The proposal also deals with the kind of gifts to be included in this deduction scheme. The Committee has divided itself into a minority and a number on this matter. The majority consists of the government party, while the minority consists of an overall opposition. The opposition believes that this is a good proposal, which will help to increase the income of voluntary Norway. Minority thinks that this will produce positive ringing effects that are far, far beyond the so-called tax loss that the state will have because the scheme is expanding. The majority disagree. Citation from setting: ‘However, the majority believe that it is generally better and more targeted to support non-governmental organisations through government budget appropriations than through tax deductions where money support is managed according to how much different private donors support different organisations.’ As far as the case-speaker understands, this remark comes from a thought that the state and the politicians are better off deciding who should be supported than the people most are to assess it. It's a way of thinking that at least the Progress Party takes a distance from, and it's strongly disagreed with. We think that most people will consider this far better than politicians and the state on behalf of the people. On the other hand, when private donors provide support, the state contribution will be very limited in relation to the total amount provided. For each krona given, the government will only contribute 28 cents, while the private donor will contribute 72 cents after the tax deduction – almost four times as much as the government. This means that a person will get a lot more voluntary organisational work out of the money than if he were just to stick to government support and government contributions. So this is not a good idea, because it's a multiple and a minority. Then I'll just end by presenting the minority proposal from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1216	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1219	Everyone agrees that the efforts of non-governmental organisations are an important part of people's lives around the world. There are in the organizations many find spaces and expressions of their commitment in leisure time. In addition, many non-governmental organisations contribute directly in terms of well-being and charities. It may be a complement to the public, or organisations may fill an empty space that is equally difficult for the public to fill. The Red Cross’s offer to prisoners to have a visiting friend in prison, or to get a local acquaintance to help themselves as a newly arrived refugee, are such examples. The width is much larger than this, and the amount of volunteer work is very large – without me going into it any more. Hardly anyone disagrees with this description of reality. The lots separate layers in the view of tax, including in this context. Today, non-governmental organisations benefit from a number of favourable tax rules, in particular the deduction of NOK 12 000 per person. years if you give gifts to non-governmental organisations. The majority of the parties consider this scheme to be favourable enough and do not want to give priority to increasing the threshold. We also do not want to extend the quota regime. With regard to the wish of the proposers to extend to organisations which do not have a national scope, this is also rejected by the majority. The main rationale lies in monitoring and administration. If it is to be opened up to allow local associations and teams to receive gifts with a right of deduction for the donor without being connected to a central link that can deliver a single account, it clearly means more work on the part of the Tax Directorate. Their supervisory and control tasks will be more difficult and, of course, they may be given increased resources in parallel with such a change as the proposers wish. But it will mean increasing public bureaucracy, which I recall that some of those who support the proposal are usually strongly opposed. Strengthening the tax rate is not a stupid idea if you want to increase public revenue. However, legislative changes that will result in a significantly more difficult control task for the Tax Directorate do not want to be supported by the majority. In view of this, the Labour Party, SV and the Centre shall vote against these three amendments contained in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1232	In some contexts, the impression is that there are steps towards volunteering in Norway, and that it was so much better before: several participated, and the spirit of hard work was greater. Yes, society has changed, and many actors are fighting about our attention, but volunteering exists and may be bigger and more active than what we imagine in everyday life. In the international context, Norway is the country with an extremely high level of participation in teams, associations and volunteering of all kinds. It may not be entirely coincidental that the word ‘dugnad’ was what was referred to as ‘duggnad’ in the ‘Nitiman’ a year or two ago as ‘Norwegian’. The voluntary sector contributes large amounts to society in the form of 113,500 voluntary annual works and a turnover of more than DKK 60 billion. The sector employs a total of 69 000 people. I do not believe that there is any political disagreement about a desire for a large voluntary and active sector, nor that there are any parties that are not committed to making the best possible provision for voluntary teams and organisations to carry out their social work. It says in the comments of the Christian People's Party in the setting: ‘In view of the fact that several of the parties in the current government have been principal opponents of the granting of tax credits for gifts to non-governmental organisations, it is gratifying that the Government has not followed up these threats.’ «Threats» – it was then violent, I don't remember threatening to remove this deduction. If we had changed this, it would have been compensated in another way. SV is of the opinion that tax relief for donors is not the way to go to strengthen Freedom Norway. As a compromise in the Soria Moria declaration, however, the system that is in force today is, which we live well with, but it goes without saying that this is not a system that SV wants to develop further. In the SV, it is more targeted to support non-governmental organisations through government budget appropriations for different organisations and activities than through tax deductions, where financial support to organisations is managed on the basis of how much different private donors support different organisations. The importance of volunteering is predictable and good framework conditions, and we should contribute to this. Voluntary organisations already benefit from a wide range of favourable tax rules to support this type of activity. In addition to the special deduction in general income for gifts to non-governmental organisations of up to NOK 12 000, there are specific rules for the employer’s contribution and exemption from the obligation to submit the payroll when the total payroll to a person does not exceed NOK 2000. In the voluntary service coming, there is a proposal that that limit should be raised to NOK 4000. There are also tax exemptions for business activities below NOK 140 000. Everything has its price, and the price of the tax deduction scheme for volunteering amounts to an estimated 390 million. kr in 2007. It has to be allowed to ask questions about the 390 million. could have been allocated, or could have been more predictable and even more beneficial to direct transfers from the State to Voluntary Norway. It should not be that having rich friends is a prerequisite for good volunteering. It is not that we have to have tax deductions to give money for good purposes. Many of us are constantly giving money for good purposes without thought for tax relief, whether there are some slumbers to the Salvation Army, sold to the local sports team or some monthly thousand copies to the party. I guess it's not like taxation for someone is more important than what it's meant to be. It is otherwise important for SV to provide public support to organisations to ensure their autonomy and diversity. Tomorrow there will be an opportunity to look at the questions we are discussing now, in a larger and more fundamental context. Then we're going to have a debate around St. Announcer. No 39 for 2006-2007, Freedom for all. I expect that today's issue then comes up in its proper context, that we will focus on the role and conditions of volunteering, and that the issues of tax relief get their share of that debate. I will not prejudge tomorrow's debate, but I will end by referring to the dialogue between Freedom Norway and the Government. In its opinion, Freewill Norway states: ‘Freedom Norway is very pleased that the Freedom Notice has been submitted. The notification contains a coherent and thorough review of the voluntary sector and is characterised by the government’s listening to the voluntary nature of its work on the notification.’;» There is reason to be satisfied that we have a government that prioritises volunteering, and there is also reason to be optimistic on behalf of volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1276	First to the representative Lund Bergo’s remark that he felt the threat assessment of the Christian People’s Party was in the strongest form. We just have to take note of that. However, I would like to point out what the representative Lund Bergo was in his post, and who is also in the comment of the majority. That's what it says. ‘it is generally better and more targeted to support non-governmental organisations through State budget appropriations than through tax deductions where financial support is managed on the basis of how much different private donors support different organisations’. I fully agree that it is positive that direct support is also given to the State budget, but I do not think one should underestimate what has gradually become less and less of it, namely the free resources of the organisations, because the fact is that through much of the state aid, the activity is also managed in Freedom Norway. I think it's very healthy and very right that we maintain a civil society, that we have a third sector, that also has an incentive to be a kind of tailhang to the public. In that aspect, I think the gift-deduction scheme is in the middle of the flash, and I am very happy that it has arrived. As you know, we have also proposed it expanded in budgetary terms. That aspect, I think, does not affect the majority in particular in its comments, namely the ability of organisations to manage their own resources without excessive government. It is, I think, one of the important debates related to Freedom Norway in the future. So a short comment related to the proposal. We support the proposal, but I would nevertheless like to say that it has some administrative challenges that I do not think you should ignore. For the Christian People's Party, it is a premise for an extension of the system in line with what the proposal represents, that practical solutions are found to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1295	The representative Syversen suggests a seeming contradiction between our way of looking at volunteering and our way of financing volunteering. He's pulling it out by free means in particular. If the representative of the Syversen sees in the volunteering message, he will see that the government parties are very concerned with free resources and precisely that the organisations should not be governed by the state, but that our role is to provide good framework conditions. We all know that not least because of the loss of automatic income, which has been formidable for Freedom Norway, but which was absolutely necessary – and which most in the Chamber agree – we need to look at other ways of supporting volunteering. We're going to do that, and I personally believe that by free means it's essential in that context. I mean, for example. that part of the games that Norsk Tipping is running today should be able to return to Freedom Norway, just to trigger more good spirit, which we can't find in Norwegian Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1300	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1537]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1316	The issue of taxes may concern most, at least whether or not economic values are linked to the object. Elk is such an object, like reindeer and deer, since it is hunted on these animals, and because some are willing to pay for the meat. What if, for some reason, the tax item is degraded? What happens to the tax on it, for example. would strip a wolf or two into the hunting area and take care of what is found of valuable game in the area? This issue has been dealt with by the Financial Committee, and it is quite so thorough, whether I have to say it this way. This is because the representatives Jan Tore Sanner, Børge Brende and Svein Flättten presented a proposal for a representative which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to Section 4 of the Tax Act so that the property value of electricity waste in likely wolf areas is not included in the overall estimate of forest wealth.’ The conclusion of the majority is as follows: the income of the year from the hunting rights themselves is to be valued. So it's the molting permits used to calculate the property value of. This means that if a forest owner has not had income, or has had reduced income, because the wolf has supplied itself with the elk stock in its forest, it will have zero assets, or reduced its value for tax purposes. So it's the motivating permits to calculate the value of wealth, and after this clarification, the majority chooses to reject the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1335	I thank the representative for the insightful mention of a difficult tax case. There has been a little back and forth with this matter, mildly said. But then you've been told in the last few days that this has ended with the fact that the Tax Directorate, who were the ones who had made mistakes in this context, has changed its practice and recognised it. Does the representative think that this case has shown us that the Stortinget, the politicians – and perhaps especially the Government – should have a humble approach to tax issues that come up from tax collectors, and that it is important to get into the details?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1344	To put it that way, we have gone deep into the details of this matter. I can confirm that, both in the case of wolves, elk and even reindeer. And I think it's useful, because all the tax rules in the country have consequences for the individual, the individual enterprise – all those who pay taxes. This procedure has been elucidating in this way, so I have nothing against the views expressed by the fleet representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1349	This is an example of a case where the process in Stortinget has helped to clean up a very small but – for some people – important tax case. After all, as we have heard in the last few days, the Minister of Finance has cried out in the woods and received an answer, and the Directorate of Taxation has cleared this up as a consequence. It was stated in the statements of the case rapporteur, in a letter from the Minister of Finance, and in what I have registered is a letter from the Tax Directorate to the forest owner's side, that it is the used killing permits that are to be subject to property taxation. To put it simply, it's the number of animals that are fielded, which means something. But then there is something strange in the vote from the majority, which the rapporteur has led in the pen on behalf of the majority, because there is a distinction between hunting permits that have been sold and permits for those who hunt themselves. It says that for those who hunt themselves, there are the number of killing permits adjusted in relation to, among others. The wolfevir, which is to lie on the ground – not what you have in mind, but what you can get to trap. It is not in accordance with what is in all other documents. Is it the Minister of Finance and the Tax Directorate that apply, or is there this somewhat unclear, confusing majority voting that applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1358	I refer you to my post, where I referred to the position we have, which is thus announced by the Minister of Finance, the Tax Direkorate and, I am aware, also clarified at the latest a few days ago, in relation to those who hunt, and who rent out for hunting. It's on the side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1363	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1366	This has been a strange matter in many ways. It began with a proposal from, among others. I, the undersigned, who was unpresist but took up an important matter for forest owners and for those who have elk and wolf in their areas. Then the matter continued with a reply from the Minister of Finance to the Committee, which showed our imprecision, but at the same time gave an answer which was in many ways satisfactory to both the proposers and those concerned. Then it would be thought that everything was very well, but it was not, because the practice referred to by the Minister of Finance in his answer was not current practice of those who perform the equation, namely the external department, the Tax Directorate. That's why it's been a little bit back and forth. I have to say that I think the case rapporteur, the elk political spokesman Marianne Aasen Agdestein, has done an excellent job of getting involved in these things. It has not been easy, either for proposers or for others. To make a long story short: now the matter is solved. I don't think there's any example to follow that Stortinget via Document No. Eight proposals and subsequent committee proceedings are intended to solve the problems faced by taxpayers in the Equation Service. But at least that has been a good result, and that is why I want to draw our minority proposal, which is in the vote, and instead to promote the proposal that has been distributed, that we ask for the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes. Then we will have a unified solution to this – especially if the government parties support that proposal. Then everyone will agree – all the way out of the woods and up to those who are going to do the equation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1377	The representative has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1380	So in order to recapitulate the case, it applies to the calculation of the wealth of elk in areas with established wolfevir and a high predatory load. It is not right for the yield of elk ghäkt to be included in the forest property tax. The home of forest property taxation is the second paragraph of Section 4-11 of the Tax Act, while the Elghakt wealth is taxed according to the general rule on the taxation of wealth in Section 4-1 of the Tax Act. Here is hunting one type of waitress among many. It is the hunting rights used, killing permits, for which the value of the property shall be calculated. This means that the ELG holder who, because of the wolf, has had reduced income, or no income, will have reduced, or none, the value of property for tax purposes. Therefore, there is no need for separate legal rules for forest owners affected by wolves. However, following the examination of the Committee, there is a need for a general clarification of property taxation of hunting rights. According to Equations-ABC 2006, page 976, the value of moose and deer hunting is taxed ‘only if the forest owner has so large forest area within the municipality that it would grant a litter permit to at least one animal’. In the Communications from the Tax Directorate, No. 6 of this year, 13 December, Section 3-2-5 under the heading ‘Advantages in net comparison of own exploited hunting rights’ states that the number of ‘fielded animals’ to be taken into account — i.e. not breeding permits, that there is a net benefit and not a gross benefit to be derived from property taxation, and that for elk, elk, elk, elk, adult reindeer and adult deer rates are used. In the case of hunting other than elk, reindeer and deer, no property shall be counted when a hunted sea. For those renting hunting, including large game hunting, gross rental income is the basis for the calculation of the property rights. This means that for these, too, the used killing permits are the ones for which the value of wealth is to be calculated. That is why I agree with Mr Fletten that we have achieved a good result so far, and on the part of the Central Party, we have nothing against attaching the proposal to the Minutes. Having said that, however, the Committee's discussion may need a closer look at this later. Then there's a point that's important to bring with it, and that's to stimulate, among other things. cooperation in the exploitation of hunting resources – and cooperation in the exploitation of hunting resources through hunters’ and fishermen’s associations, which are most relevant in many cases – is needed to address the regulatory framework for the taxation of wealth by renting hunting, among others. assessment of the base deductions for the determination of assets. It's quite natural, when we know that the most central thing about taxation is the income tax, and the income from the first dollar is taxed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1392	In doubt, the President opens the door to a change of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1395	I think the president shouldn't be in doubt about that, because now we're getting closer to clarifying what's been the whole problem -- this case wouldn't have come to Stortinget if everyone had joined the finance minister's letter and that was it. Because there have obviously been uncertainties, and the uncertainties have been, among other things. in the observations of the majority, of which the representative Lundtigen is a member. The majority correctly say initially ‘The majority understands the rules’. Then one distinguishes between hunting that is rented away – where there are used breeding permits the majority say it should calculate the value of wealth – and ‘those that hunt themselves’, where, according to the majority, it is the number of breeding permits to be used. The representative now refers Lundtigen to the notification of 13 December from the Tax Directorate, which states that for those who hunt themselves, the number of animals in the field is to be taken into account. This means that it is now beginning to agree that the Minister of Finance and the Tax Directorate is right, and what the representative Lundtegen and others have written in the vote contributes to ambiguity or can be said to be wrong. Is it so to understand that it's wrong what's in the setting, and correct what the Tax Directorate has just written?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1400	What's in the setting is correct, and what's said from me is correct. When a hunted sea, it is now perfectly clear from the Communications of the Tax Directorate, No. 6/2007, what it's like to perceive – it's the number of animals that are killed, it's net, and it's about animals that are referred to. In the case of those renting away, the gross rental income is the basis of the property calculation, and the gross rental income is the actual income each year. If the wolf has been there and hunted before the hunter comes, well, then there will be no income on the one who rents out the hunt.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1405	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1408	As the rapporteur, I would just like to state that the majority support the proposal of the fleet that the proposal for the elk, the wolf and the other animals be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1413	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1430	With regard to the proposal of the representatives of those representatives to eliminate the difference between private and public creditors in the case of late payment fees, where those representatives also propose that the Government submit the necessary proposals to include state creditors in the ordinary system of charges for late payment, the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. I expect that the minority might explain their views. The Committee stresses the importance of the contribution of state creditors to the avoidance of serious debt problems for persons with payment problems. It is about charging practices in case of late payment, but also about the willingness to find solutions for people who have problems paying in time. In this context, the Committee points out that the customers of the State Loan Fund for Education who have problems with payment may apply for deferral of payment of the term before they are charged a reminder fee. The Committee agrees, in principle, with the proposers that State creditors should not be able to levy a higher late payment fee than that resulting from the ordinary charging system in the event of late payment. State fees should be cost-based. The majority of the Committee points out that this has already been implemented by the Government in several areas, at the latest by reducing the passport fee. The majority of the Committee points out that in the case of late payment, account must also be taken of the need to ensure timely payment, and the majority points out that for the arrangements referred to in the draft representative, the late payment fee will in many cases be lower than that resulting from the debt collection law, as indicated in the letter from the Minister of Finance. This will apply in particular in cases where the payment is significantly delayed, and it is therefore not clear that it would be desirable for the payer to transfer State creditors to comply with the charging rates imposed by the Debt Collection Act. The majority also indicates that the fee revenue under the Debt Collection Act combined with the interest for late payment involves higher amounts for each default if the default extends on time. As I said at the outset, the majority recommends that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1443	As the case spokesman said, this is a proposal to eliminate the difference between private and public creditors when it relates to late payment fees. There is a big difference today between the charging rules that apply to private creditors and those that apply to public creditors. There should be little doubt that the State has given itself special advantages that private individuals do not have, with the consequences it has for private debtors who are late for payment. The plural says in the setting: ‘The majority point out that for the arrangements referred to in the proposal for a representative, the late payment fee will in many cases be lower than that resulting from the debt collection law, as indicated in the letter from the Minister for Finance.’ Here you try to construct a situation where you get better access to public government schemes than to private ones. It seems strange to me, because those who are very late can come out pretty well, while those who are just a little bit late, come out very badly with the state arrangements. I also found it strange that one has a system that should punish those who are very little too late, while those who are very much too late will come out fairly well. But if the majority think that the state has no special rules that it's worth talking about, there should be even less reason to have equal rules for private creditors and state creditors. It would have been a simplification in many ways that one had the same rules, so that the debtors could comply with the same rules, regardless of who owes the money. In any case, there is no majority agreement in this round, and then it just remains for me to resubmit the minority proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1457	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1460	I am a little uncertain about the real intentions of the proposal by the representatives of Hagesetter, Hoksrud, Anundsen and Knudsen, but I choose to see it positive, namely that the starting point is to support and help those who, for various reasons, have fallen victim to debt and have problems dealing with themselves. If this is correctly understood, I believe the starting point is affordable enough. At the same time, I believe it would be totally wrong to focus on differences between private and public creditors. For those concerned, it is of little importance whether the creditor is private or public. For those concerned, it is essential that the problems are not reinforced and that proposals for solutions are put on the table as soon as possible. In this context, of course, it is important, as the proposers stress, to look at the amount of the fees, but perhaps as important it is to look at what can be done to prevent them from getting involved, that there are fees. A few years ago, the recovery of outstanding claims was, as many traders did, with small costs both for the company and customers. In recent years, we have seen that this has been taken over by large international groups. This has led to the fact that what could previously be arranged in an amicable way with a small telephone to the customer or from customer to company has become a cold and cynical business. Where there was previously room for a small delay or two-three reminders, there is now a quick reminder to end up in debt collection as soon as possible. Possibly this is a good store, but especially human, it's not, and I mean it's whether it's public or private creditors. One consequence of such proceedings is also that costs, fees and interest should be on it at a speed. Although this area is regulated with rates, etc., we saw last week that one of the largest players in the market in Norway, and elsewhere in the world, has taken over-priced and charged in relation to laws and regulations – and this against a customer group that is initially struggling. The proposers say this: ‘The consumer is often vulnerable to resource constraints and alone to a great struggle by a country with all possible resources available.’ Yes, the proposers are entitled to have a high potential for improvement also by state collectors, but the same applies to the professional collection companies to the greatest extent. I believe that the submitted private bill is not suitable for dealing with these problems properly, and that the distinction between state and private is a pure derailment in this respect. I'm glad that in this area we have a council of states with will and commitment to change the state of things. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly paid fees and so-called snuff taxes, and the aim is that such charges should not be in the form of hidden taxes, but simply cover the costs of the services performed – unlike the Bondevik II government, which lowered taxes, but was very creative in terms of ownership and fees. From what the Council of State has now implemented, we see a reduced fee for passports, which in the last period received a large increase, while the price is now reduced about half. We have seen that various coercive charges in relation to discard have been reduced, driving licence costs have been reduced, and in the Brønn Island Health Registers we also have reduced fees. I am also aware that work is being done to change practices in terms of tax returns and residual taxes. This is part of the same problem complex. Simplification for personal taxpayers and, in particular, prevention and dialogue with self-employed workers is actively pursued. This is the fine initiative of the Minister of Finance, and in the long term it will be positive both for those affected and for society. One will prevent matters from growing into insurmountable problems for the individual, and for the state it is cheaper to prevent than to repair or punish. Resources can thus be released for more constructive things. Some of us are impatient and want more grips, such as reduced fees. But we understand that the Council of State needs time to figure out the real cost of the entries. To the representative proposal: Does it not worry the proposers that the fees they are talking about are billions of stores for the international financial group because it is a pure over-price of these services? And in the case of the state: the government has an evaluation of such fees in progress, and that's the solution for the individual who gets such fees and gets into debt problems, which is the important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17.ana.ud1745e1484	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that one now cancel the morning meeting because of Christmas. [[Footing, see page 1538]] - It's a note. The evening meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
