ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e60	The representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, André Octay Dahl, Laila Davøy, Per Rune Henriksen, Bjørg Tørresdal, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, Inge Ryan and Jorodd Asphjell, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Socialist Left Party Group on the study permit of the representative Heikki Holmås from 20 November to 26 November from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave from 20 November to 22 November to take part in the delegation of the Interparliamentary Union to the 62nd General Assembly of the United Nations in New York On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Ingunn GjerstadFor Rogaland County: Siri A. Meling3. Siri A. Meling is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e120	Ingunn Gjerstad and Siri A. Meling are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e126	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected as chairman of Stortinget’s meeting this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e149	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e158	From 2003, when high levels of brominated flame retardants were found in fish from Mjösa, the focus of policy has been on the state of the environment of Mjøsa. There is also a broad political consensus that the state of the environment in Mjösa is not what we want it to be. The intention of Document No. 8:109 for 2006-2007 on a separate action plan for clean-up in Mjösa is therefore a relevant issue. The main question is whether an action plan will improve the state of the environment more than the actual measures currently being implemented. I agree with the proposers that an action plan would be correct if the issue was new, and if we were to enter the dissolved land. That's not the case. The situation today is such that a number of activities are being carried out to improve the state of the environment in Mjösa. As I said, the problem with Mjösa is not new. Targeted actions have been implemented – actions that will be followed up further in the coming years. In addition, in my opinion, the Committee has been assured by the Council of State that further action will be taken when new knowledge and information is acquired. In this context, the majority of the opinion is that it is not necessary to draw up a separate action plan for action. I would also like to stress that the majority of the Committee supports its view that action will be taken on the basis of an overall assessment of the environmental situation. The overall effort and priorities underpinning the efforts of the authorities to limit the adverse effects of environmental pollutants around lakes, fjords and ports are widely agreed in the Stortinget. You go back two years in history, in connection with St.meld. No 21 for 2004-2005, the government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the former government, which is mentioned at that time, the following can be observed: ‘Various measures related to brominated flame retardants will also be implemented as part of the action programme on the environmental situation in Mjøsa.’» Yes, the previous government, with the party to today's proposal makers as a member, then, as late as 18 March 2005, had confidence in the Mjösa monitoring action programme. It becomes strange when the former government parties, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, in the minority comment now express the following: ‘These members have noted with disappointment that the Government will not give priority to cleaning up in Mjøsa by establishing a separate action programme for this purpose and will not take any action beyond the existing monitoring of the state in order to address a serious environmental problem.’ I think that's reason to reflect on how to change the political perception and character in two years. In order to allow a little ironic tone, it must be noted that in politics there is not a long way between self-satisfaction and deep disappointment. I think that in this case the minority is a very good example of that. Now I'm going to hurry to add that the irony will in no way overshadow the seriousness of the situation. For 2005, and for that matter from 2003 to now, there has been a continuous implementation of studies and measures to stop access to environmental pollutants and improve the state of the environment in Mjösa. So there is in no way a standstill, either in monitoring or in measures to improve the state of the environment. On the contrary, it's the opposite that's the reality. The letter from the Minister for the Environment to the Committee points to these realities. Among other things, it is noted that in 2005 contaminated sludge was removed from the canal at Strandtorget on Lillehammer, and that at the same time a catching pond was built to hold back new inputs of contaminated sludge. And for the current year, it's pointed out that further sludge removal has been done. The channel is an important route of administration for environmental toxins to Mjøsa. The new sludge entering the canal will also be sampled next year and SFT will continuously consider additional sludge suction. The monitoring programme shall continuously collect new information and reassessments. The situation and developments in Mjösa are not unambiguous. Knowledge acquisition and limitations on emissions of new pollutants will therefore be the right focus. Then, of course, someone might think that much more action would have to be taken. Then I think it is good to note that an action plan has to be followed up through the individual annual budgets, and from what I can read, there are no parties in this Chamber who intend to strengthen the Ministry of the Environment budget in such a way that the environmental situation in Mjösa can be met with further efforts in 2008 than is the case from what the Government proposes. Now, perhaps, the substance and reality of the proposal is that we have focused on an important environmental issue, a matter on which an overall committee is concerned, and I would like to thank the proposers for that. In the light of this, the majority of the Committee recommends that the majority of the House attach the proposal to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e197	I have to say I am somewhat surprised at the tone of the rapporteur's statement. He could have saved himself part of his irony. But I'll leave it now. I guess that speaks for itself. For us from the interior, Mjösa and Vorma represent unique outdoor and recreational areas. In the summer, it's outdoor bathing, small boat life and fishing. But Mjösa is also an important source of drinking water for a number of municipalities. The water flows into Vorma, which mixes with Glomma at Vormsund, so it affects many more than us who live around Mjösa. Measles are part of a unique ecosystem, and a careful management of the lake is important to ensure a safe community. More than 20 years ago, a comprehensive action was taken to improve water quality in Mjösa, and after this action, the lake was regarded by both professionals and the local population as having little pollution. But now it's actually so that the environment in and around Mjösa is threatened again. In recent years, lake samples have shown that fish can contain different pollutants. Measurements of the toxicity levels in 2006 show that there is a need to raise the issue again, as they showed that there is still a high level of environmental pollution in fish in Mjösa. As a result, the Food Authority still advises pregnant women, women of childbearing age and children to eat too much trout from the lake. There are still a lot of brominated flame retardants, PCBs and mercury in the fish. The brominated flame retardant found most frequently in fish in Mjösa is the most dangerous variant in this group of substances. It is therefore of particular concern that concentrations are at the level of the levels of PCBs previously measured in fish in Mjösa. The levels in Mjösa are particularly high compared to measurements carried out in the Femund, Randsfjorden and Oslofjorden, and researchers believe it is likely to be due to local contamination. That's why the Right believes that there's a need for a new milling action, like the one we had more than 20 years ago. At the time, the Ministry of the Environment took into account this serious pollution situation and reduced the supply of both nutrients from agriculture and emissions from municipal sewage treatment plants. Now we had hoped that today's Environment Minister would take a new round to clean up the pollutants, and therefore promoted the proposal we are discussing today. But unfortunately we were disappointed. But it's not just in the Right that we're disappointed today. There are many who have reason to be disappointed that the Government will not do anything, in addition to continuing the status quo, and that it only makes general comments that it follows the situation in Mjøsa carefully. But what people around Mjösa and along Vorma and Glomma expect is not to follow the situation. We know what the situation is, and that it is not safe to eat fish from Mjösa today. We expect action, so that again it will be safe both to drink water from Mjösa and to eat the fish. That's why we invited the Government to participate in a coup d'état to clean up. We can now only note that the Government will not participate. We find that regrettable. Detoxification in Mjøsa is not a project that gives the major international headlines. It is not as spectacular as saving the rainforest in the Amazon, halting climate change or some of the other in itself very important work in which the Minister for the Environment and Development is committed. All due respect and support for it. But it's an important project for all of us who live around Norway's largest lake. It's about something as trivial as a safe local environment. There'll be little fanfare and red runners of it, but it's just as important. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Minister of Environment and Development and the Government and the majority here in the United Kingdom are not willing to take new impetus, as former governments have done, to contribute to a better and safer local environment for us living around Mjösa and along Vorma and Glomma. I refer to the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e218	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e221	Good water quality is important, there is no doubt about it. It is also important that the fish to be eaten are also well within the dietary councils in place at all times. Mjösa, which we are now focusing on, has had its own monitoring programme from 2003, the action programme for the control of environmental emissions to Mjösa. Mjösa has such a programme because of the challenges we face with large inputs of nutrients from agriculture and environmental pollutants from different sources. We all know that Mjösa is located in a unique outdoor and recreational area for both local and travellers. This is why it is important that we have a close follow-up to developments in Mjösa, which takes place through the action programme, in which concrete measures related to the pollutants present in Mjøsa per. Today, as the Bondevik government also provided in the Government’s Annual Report on the Government’s environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Right focuses on environmental toxins, because environmental toxins need the political focus. However, in view of the work already being done in Mjösa, we do not see the need today to share in asking for an action plan, since we have an action programme that follows developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e232	The environmental situation in the watercourses, lakes and fjords around our country is something that occupies the centre party strongly. We know that the availability of clean water is a major challenge globally, and even if we have good access to water in this country – yes, in some parts of the country, too good access to water – it is crucial that we ensure that environmental pollution does not destroy our water resources. Unfortunately, it is a fact that in and on many fjords, watercourses and lakes we find sources of impurities that affect water quality and thus result in ecosystems and the biological deficiency of the current watercourses. It is important to work along two tracks. We must build knowledge and identify the sources of impurities we have, and the consequences of them, and we must listen to action to ensure that we clean them up. As far as possible, we're trying to remove or reduce any source of impurity. It is important to work systematically to ensure the cleaning up of pollutants in watercourses, lakes and fjords and to put in place the greatest effort where the situation is most serious. In this case, the case-speaker has in a good way said something about the follow-up of the Mjøsa action programme. I will not lengthen the debate unnecessarily, but just stand behind what the case-speaker has said, and stress that the Centre Party is busy with the state of the environment in Norway's largest lake. We feel in many ways that the opposition proposal is an attempt to open doors. Here is a good and valuable effort to improve the state of the environment, and we want to support the work being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e241	Let me start by giving full credit to the right-wing representatives who have promoted this proposal. I consider the disagreement about whether we are going to have an action plan or an action plan, to be almost semantic, and in any case we are going to do something real in this area. However, it is important that such a question be raised in the living political debate. And it's done in an efficient way. It's come up in Stortinget, and it's contributing in a constructive way. This also applies to Sonja Irene Sjøli's warm words about Mjösa, to say it. It's the sea of my childhood, which I've passed a million times on my way to the Gudbrand valley. I've had a lot of good comrades who thought you could live all over the world, only you could see Mjösa. So the love that the representative Sjøli expressed to Mjösa, I think we all share. That the situation is a good example that we haven't been leading was at an early stage, that we've allowed different kinds of pollution from the local and global to be recorded in Mjøsa, there's no doubt about it either. That is all the reason for the concern that is being voiced. There are too high levels of environmental contaminants in fish. There are brominated flame retardants, PCBs, mercury and other very harmful substances. That said, it must also be said that the water quality in Mjösa is acceptable. Mjösa is a good source of drinking water, but that doesn't mean we can accept that we don't get enough done. We must continue a hard work to clean up the harmful substances that have been fed to Mjösa. I'm glad there's a broad consensus here on this. The ongoing action programme is a collaboration between the State Pollution Control Agency, the County Council of Hedmark and Oppland, the Food Authority, the National Institute of Public Health and the Vasstraksförbundet of Mjösa, with sole proprietors. The action programme is aimed at finding sources of all the pollution in Mjösa, investigating the cause and thus also figuring out how to stop the precursors that are. It's a combination of local and international pollution we see in Mjösa. The most important is probably emissions from industry, waste landfills and inputs from municipal waste water treatment plants and from rivers. So there's also long-distance pollution. When we try to clean up, it's very important to do things in the right order. It means to be sure of the causes and to have good control of sources and emissions before carrying out any cleaning in the contaminated parts of Mjösa, otherwise cleaning up contaminated landfills could lead to only spreading pollution further beyond the problem rather than reducing it. A number of measures have been taken to stop inputs. Earlier in the debate it was mentioned that sludge has been removed in the canal at Strandtorget on Lillehammer, which has prevented the further spread of this to Mjösa. Waste sludges from Gjøvik and Lillehammer have been stopped or reduced which have been found to be contaminated with brominated flame retardants. It is no longer used for agricultural purposes and thus prevents run-off to Mjösa. It is essential to find the possible sources and to detect both legal and illegal emissions, stop the illegal and reduce what might be of legitimate emissions. The SFT revealed e.g. in 2005, a Gjøvik holding which had illegal sludge and water discharges containing brominated flame retardants and heavy metals. These illegal emissions had continued from 2001 to 2004. Ecocrim has provided this company with a proposal for the illegal emissions. A more systematic environmental monitoring of Mjösa is also being carried out in order to obtain the best possible overview of the state of the lake. Despite thorough follow-up, it may, of course, take a long time before the condition can be said to be entirely satisfactory. Historically, the pollutants are slowly degraded and cannot be easily removed overnight. But as I said, the drinking water in Mjösa is of good quality. This is assessed by the Food Authority. Environmental toxins that brominated flame retardants and PCBs are very low water-soluble. They're caught in fish and bound to animals because they're absorbed in fat, but since they're very little water-soluble, there's minimal concentrations in the water. Long-distance transport pollution is also part of the problem in Mjösa, and it is therefore of course important, as Sonja Sjøli also suggested, that we address all the international environmental problems, where we also have a downturn in Norway. The government will follow the work of Mjösa further, come up with new measures and of course do what is at all in our power to stop the inputs that are still going on, and gradually clean up all the problems in Mjøsa. Thank you for raising the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e270	I noticed that in the articles of the Council of State there was a lot of focus on sources and causes of pollution. I also see that it is the main line in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, and in particular in the mention of this matter by the positioning parties. Our point of addressing this matter was that we also believe that there is an important job to do in clearing up old sins. We know that there are sludge areas – that is, it's clayed up landfills, or what we're going to call it – where there's a disproportionate amount of heavy metals and other pollutants. It has to be important, in addition to monitoring what's coming, and trying to slow it down, that you actually do a clean-up job. In this context, I would also like to point out that there is a lot of industrial waste dumped outside the Skreia area. Does the Council share this view? Will the Council of State take the initiative to get this kind of work going as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e278	Without trying to appear as an absolute expert in this area in my first draft discussion on environmental policy, I think it is quite obvious that both have to be done. You have to stop the further administration of environmental toxins to Mjösa, and we have to clean up the sins of the past. But when we clean up the sins of the past, it's of course absolutely vital that we do it in such a way that we reduce and limit the problem, and not simply spread it beyond. Therefore, there is a close link between monitoring and gaining knowledge about the cause, what is deposited in Mjösa, and starting work to remove it. There are a number of international examples of the fact that, in the good sense, reducing a problem has simply spread the problem beyond.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e283	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e288	As we all know, access to clean drinking water is one of the really big global challenges of the future. A billion people already live without access to sufficiently clean drinking water, and more will be in the future. The scarcity of resources means that water will be a source of conflict to an even greater extent than what we have seen so far. We could maybe believe from Document No. The 8-proposal that Mjösa has become the source of conflict in Stortinget, but I am fortunate to note that on the contrary, it now seems that we finally have a cross-political agreement for the first time that the focus on Mjösa needs to be increased, and that the quality must be maintained even better than it has been done in the past. I feel, unlike the representative Sjøli, that we have a minister who is very concerned about Mjösa as Norway's largest lake. I experience for the first time in a very long time that we have a government and a minister who takes the situation seriously. Mjøsa collects domestic water across municipalities and counties and supplies drinking water to the population of many municipalities. I think sometimes people aren't aware that Mjösa is actually a drinking water source for an incredible number of thousands of people. It is therefore necessary that we take good care of this source of drinking water. It's not without reason that people at home in Hedland are very concerned about the need to take a roof and make an extra effort to improve the quality of the water. As long as I can remember, there's been diet board on fish caught in Mjösa. We have had emissions of brominated flame retardants, phosphorus and mercury, and it has periodically created unrest and major headlines. Everyone remembers the Mjøsaktion that was pulled off by worried housewives from the Mjøskommunies, who got politicians on the track in the 1970s and also saved our lake. That time the situation was very serious. The drinking water was brown, it smelled bad, and the algal growth threatened the entire living environment in the lake. The painting was mobilised several hundred million kroner for cleaning operations and saved the quality. Thank God we're not there today. When people call for a new milking action, it's not for no reason. But it's not because the situation is what it was in the 1960s and 1970s; it's because people fear that this will happen again. We know that since last time, algal production has increased, dietary councils are in place, and we find that pollution is also too great. I have been engaged in quality in Mjösa for many years, and I will not hide that I could also wish for more money for direct cleaning in Mjøsa. But I must say that the will of the previous government to do something for Mjösa was non-existent. Today's government is taking the situation seriously. If you read the Council's replies, you will also see that you have to follow the situation closely and implement measures when it turns out that it is necessary. I'm serious about that. The Council of State also reassured me in his speech when he confirmed that we should be leading the way before it is too late to implement new measures. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e305	It is said of us dairy farmers that we have the attitude that it is not so dangerous where we travel in the world, just as we see Mjøsa. In that one often thinks to point to something that's a little tight and home-loved, but in reality it describes what Mjösa means to us. It does not just mean a source of recreation, a place to fish or a source of drinking water. It has a culture and a story, it's something that binds our area together, it's something that's deep in us, and it's about strong symbols. In the early 1500s Hamark Romance, there is a colorful story about how the farmers in the Hamar area managed to catch the Mjøsworm, the heavy monster, and managed to kill the pig. The heavy carcass then landed at Domkirkeodden and lay and rotted and plagued the entire Hamarkaupangen until the bishop got enough of it to burn the pigs. We've cleared Mjösa before, in other words. At the time, the image of the Mjøsworm was a picture of a society in decay. It was the Catholic medieval society that went into disintegration and got its image in the worm. We're also asked if we don't have a cornworm today, that it's a disease sign today that we might live a little bit longer with contaminants than we should, that maybe we're not as fast ahead as we should, and that we don't as the Bishop of Hamar get carried up enough at the time we should. That's what it's about now. Unfortunately, despite the fact that we have an action plan that ticks and goes, there are still areas in Mjösa where conditions get worse. The reason for which this Document No. The 8 proposal came up, because some municipal sewage treatment plants in our area did not actually have an overview of how much was released, despite having control measures. So it's like there's old sins that lie in the mud of one and the other week, if you drag the Mjø area around. And no one has said that they're going to swirl up the misery and dig this up tomorrow. It's perfectly obvious that we should have a strategy for how we actually clean up the old sins over time. We experience that the main focus today is on control and monitoring, and that action is being patched and taken when it goes crazy. But the strategy needs to be extended to what you want to do, we also need to have a plan to clean up in the future. That's the example we're going to pick up from the old bishop early in the 1500s, which was derived from burning the Millworm, and I think we're going to go about that together.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e314	The President considers that the term «swine» is not a parliamentary term but that it can be accepted when it is used in relation to the Mjøsworm.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e317	Actually, the debate has also indicated that there is a total amount of money involved in the state of the environment in Mjösa, and this way one could perhaps not speak for the second time. But I think the representative Mr. Sjeli's posts deserve some of our points. Because, in fact, the situation is taken seriously by the majority of the Committee, and not least by the Minister for the Environment. He has underlined that through the letter sent to the committee, and I also think he has very well supported it by his speech here today. So the issue is taken very seriously. I also think Sjøli uses a little strong words in his concern that one only makes general comments about the situation, and that one will not implement new power measures. In that case, I think that the representative, Sjøli, should actually go to his own party and ask how they intend to implement further measures in the coming years. Because in the 2008 state budget, and the right alternative to it, neither Mjösa nor environmental pollutants are in any way strengthened in – to say – the Minister for the Environment’s financial autonomy. Should one go beyond what one actually does now, and should one go as far as Mr. Sjøli might really hope for, it had to be followed up by an alternative budget proposal for 2008. So I think, finally, it's good to note that the situation is taking it seriously. However, if there was some kind of substance in what the representative, Mr. Sjøli, at least, highlights, it should have been followed up by concrete budgetary measures for 2008 from the Right, which I note has not been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e329	Just a brief review to the last speaker: if you look at the setting of this case and the letter we received from the Council of State, it is not that you are just flagging with wishes for enhanced effort. You hit your chest with a pretty high degree of self-satisfaction. That is, I would say, a rather defensive remark the government parties have. That's, in short, this is okay and gets scoured as it pleases. It must then be expected that the initiative will be called for. So of course you could say that we could have budget lines on this, but it's actually like having budget lines, you have to have a starting point to make them. You have to expect the government to come up with proposals. The starting point for this whole question was that we asked for such a starting point. We have asked to expand the perspective of the work to be done in the case of Mjösa. So we don't get that, and then you can't well criticise the Right for not getting ahead of the Government more than what we've already done on this question. I think it's striking that you're keeping a line as defensive as you do. Then I notice that in the posts in Stortinget you signal something different and something more. We're going to hope that the program that we're now working on will actually be strengthened, and hopefully we'll strengthen the pages of the program that we've been calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e340	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 547]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e356	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e365	Hunting deer has long traditions in this country. In the past, hunting was important as food, but today it is probably primarily as recreation we are hunting. But it's still that hunting has an important economic value. Renting hunting rights is an important source of income for many landowners in the districts. Deer hunting provides an opportunity for value creation and activity in the districts that go far beyond the meat value itself. The main obstacle to such development is tight hunting times and short seasons. At a time when predatory wild game loads are high in many areas, one could also experience shorter periods when some areas are empty of deer game, because predatory wild game is on the ground. This suggests that it is appropriate to extend the hunting time in order to compensate for such rashes. In addition, Sweden has significantly longer hunting times than Norway, creating a distortion of competition between countries. Finally, an extended hunting period will reduce the potential stress of hunters to get the quota out. This, in turn, will reduce the risk of damage shooting. Many had therefore expected the Directorate for Nature Management to set new hunting times in Norway earlier this year that will apply from 1 April 2007 to 31. on March 2012, would have extended the hunting period beyond the harvest. Unfortunately, this did not happen. Therefore, the Right proposed to ask ‘The Government instructs the Directorate for Nature Management to extend the general hunting times of deer game to the period from 15 September to 23 December’. There is absolutely no biological basis for such a tight regulatory framework as the directorate continues to maintain. Here you can choose to steer rigorously to stress hunters and pick-outs as much as possible, or you can leave it to rightholders to decide when to take the pick-up. The assumption must be that in the case of small game and deer game there must be a co-hunting. It is mainly deer and elk proposers have thought about extending hunting times. In the response of the Minister for the Environment and Development, there are some implications for other deer species, such as wild fauna and fauna. Let me make it clear that there was no intention whatsoever in the proposal we made. The point was an extension of the hunting time, not a premise. The Council of State's response also points to an unintended consequence of the proposal as originally promoted, that it would mean a tightening of when hunting deer could start. This was not the intention of the proposal either. The intention of the proposal is, as I have pointed out, an extension of hunting times so that the rightholders can decide even more when to take the game. The right will therefore promote a slightly adjusted proposal that takes into account some of the unintended consequences that the Council of State has pointed to in its reply letter, where we concentrate the proposal on elk and deer, and where we state that it is an extension of the hunting times for both elk and deer we propose. I will take up right-hand minority proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e386	The representative Martin Engeset has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e389	I have noticed that the case rapporteur is not actually in the Chamber, which I find regrettable. This right-wing representative's proposal is that the Storting should go in and change the hunting hours of deer game. History says that for a number of years there has been a desire to extend the hunting time of parts of the deer. I think especially of elk and deer. There might be a lot of good reasons for that. Originally, the reasons were too fast-growing populations, requiring significant increases in litter quotas and the need to take out far more animals to control stock development. Gradually, there was a desire for greater opportunities for nutrient development around the hunt, especially in areas where elk and deer hunting are strong. Later, the pursuit of recreation and tourism has also come about. The Directorate for Nature Management handles the practical implementation of hunting time audits every five years. They bring together the county officials, municipalities, representatives from landowners and rightholders and several different stakeholder organisations in the process around the hunting time audit. This is a solution that has worked well, although not all parties agree, especially in the case of co-hunting, which also includes small game hunting. The hunting times set for the years 2007 to 2012 are the same as for the previous five-year period. In addition, the county may, on application, extend the hunting time in the interests of population, administrative conditions or the organisation of the commercial exploitation of the elk and deer hunting act. This is how you can respond to the desire for extension if a municipality so wishes. The majority, all except the Right, believe that this case has a better solution with today’s system than that the Storting should instruct the Government to make changes – changes that had removed from the proposal’s point of view the entire hunting time for deer. Such intervention in an otherwise useful working method has been done only once since 1981. That was when Børge Brende, the then State Council, intervened in 2002 and reduced the hunting time for elk and deer after the hearing had ended and the Directorate for Nature Management had made its proposal clear. I would like to point out that Børge Brende, one of the proposers in the matter today, now wants to extend the hunting time. Do you want to think what the next thing is going to be from that side? I am pleased that everyone, except the Right, believes that the hunting time revisions should be processes that take place without interference from government and massaging. The majority will therefore not comply with the proposal of the Right. We're going to draw the long lines and put the overall frames. So get others involved do the rest. For the future, it will be important that future processes can reconcile the consideration of the game, for business development, for good joint-hunting arrangements, for hunting opportunities for all, and not least for the users of the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e404	If there had been a chance to use PowerPoint in the staging room, it might have been tempting to produce a PowerPoint presentation to illustrate to the Right Magnifying Group the difference between a cog and a moose. It had not taken into account the right in its original proposal. It could therefore have been in place to clarify the biological conditions surrounding the deer in Norway. This is a strange proposal in many ways, including: because in its original proposal, the Right proposed several shorter hunting times for a number of cervid species. In Norway, if the proposal had been adopted in its original form, there could be virtually no more hunting for deer and wild reindeer. I will not go as far as to suggest that urgent work has been done in the Right Grandfather's Group, but something strange must have happened. Then you use the argument that local democracy is strengthened by this. The fact that, at Stortinget, the Directorate of Nature Management is to be overruled and forced to spend longer hunting time on local communities, I can't see anything to do with local democracy. However, the fact that the Right took up the proposal has brought with it one good thing, and that is that an overall committee shows that: ‘there are a number of good reasons for extending the hunting seasons in deer game. Norway is one of the European countries with the shortest hunting season in deer. An extension could have a good deal of positive consequences for both hunting, recreation, food and tourism.’ It's in the setting. There is a unanimous committee behind it, and I trust that the Council of State will take that signal with it in its further work. The Progress Party shall cooperate with the majority in this matter. The Directorate of Nature Management does a lot of things that the Progress Party disagrees with, and the Progress Party could really want an extended hunting time for deer in Norway, but now it's like we have a dialogue-based way of doing this. You have a good dialogue with the basic owners around you, you have a good dialogue with the county officials, you have a good dialogue with hunters and fishermen and also with the tourism and business operators. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the proposal should not be followed. The proposal should be rejected, because this actually works very well. Another thing, which was also the subject of the previous speech, is that the Right now is actually promoting proposals to extend hunting time in both directions. It is now exactly five years ago – and it was the first time – a politician involved and overstepped the hunting times. It's only happened once. Then it was Børge Brende, who today is a proponent, who shortened the hunting season. So what's happened over the five years, it might be interesting to know. I would like to agree with Right-wing speakers that hunting is much more than elk meat at the dinner table of Norwegian landowners. Hunting deer, deer and elk is becoming a great nourishment. As big-scale politicians, we must take this seriously and facilitate it. The way to do it is not to override a good democratic process with which all the parties involved are very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e426	The hunting seasons have been established in recent years by the Directorate for Nature Management following open and inclusive hearing processes in which both basic owners, the natural sciences, stakeholder organisations and local authorities are heard. It has been important to ensure good professional management of populations, but it has also contributed to anchoring decisions in different environments. There has been no unison requirement – at least not known to the Center Party – from the parties concerned that this practice of fixing hunting hours should be lifted. The original proposal we are dealing with in Stortinget today is a good example of why this practice should still be. As pointed out in the comments, it would have had particular adverse consequences for e.g.: hunting for a deer's nest and wild reeds. And although there may be good reasons to extend the hunting season in deer game, it is important to take into account the different concerns and practices we have in hunting for different species. This suggests, in fact, that the proposers have not had enough competence in this area, and it helps to highlight their points in the case. Perhaps it is particularly surprising that the Right Party, which in its rhetoric often goes into attacks on political regulation and detail management, now seems willing to make fixing hunting times a regular exercise here in the Stortinget. According to the Centre Party, hunting is important for both food, recreation, nutrition and tourism. Many places in the country are hunting also culture, it's cohesion, and it's important meeting places. The party supports today's hunting time model and underlines the importance of the dialogue between the Directorate for Nature Management and the parties concerned. We actually think the best solutions are to find within today's system. It is important that actors make recordings, and it is important that these recordings are taken seriously. We are also very concerned about the ability of the County to extend the hunting hours in those cases where it is advisable. This creates an important flexibility in stock management, and it makes the intentions that proposers seem to have, most of the places are already being met today. We therefore do not support minorities in the matter, and would like the setting of hunting hours not to be a topic for even debate in this Chamber. So it's going to be one exception where we see that we can't set limits, that's when it comes to government hunting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e447	There is a broad majority in the Biggest, all parties except the Right, who stand behind the solution in this case. That, of course, is a safeguard. It happens that the minority is right, but in a wise assembly like the Stortinget it is also quite often that such a broad majority is right. So I would like to refer to very good posts, both by Torny Pedersen, by Erling Sande and by Tord Lien, on the occasion of the matter. I noticed, I must say, especially the post to Tord Lien. I think the Directorate of Nature Management would appreciate so much boasting from the Progress Party. The fact that they get a message from SV would probably not shock them, but that they get it from the Advancement Party is probably a sign that here you are in the process of finding solutions that can gather widely in the Norwegian community. And in areas where there is a good deal of conflict, it is always beneficial. I also appreciate the natural science class offered by the representative Lien. If he is allowed to keep it to Right-wing representatives, I will also notify myself as a participant. I'm sure we can all enjoy it. But joke aside: the Directorate of Nature Management is revising the hunting regulations every five years. It's out for a broad consultation. It's not long since it was revised. There is clearly broad support in the Storting for this to be done in this way, also for the way the Directorate manages it. In the revision of the hunting regulations by the Directorate, the County Authority was empowered to extend the hunting time for elk and deer. The conditions for such an extension are such that there is a particular need for extended hunting time to be stocky, administrative or commercial. The hunting time for elk and deer may be extended until 23 December. Let me also say that this has been managed in an inclusive and – what to say – liberal way. It is, according to the figures I have, 83 municipalities that have had an extended hunting period for elk, and 92 municipalities that have had an extended hunting period for deer. It also shows that you are trying to find sensible local solutions. In particular, it is linked to what several representatives have been involved in, that hunting is not only a recreation but also an industry for many, and solutions need to be found to maintain it as an industry, and increased hunting time can be reasonable. At the same time, we must not forget that there are balances related to this. The hearing bodies which have given their opinion have broad warnings against initiating elgae at an earlier date. There are open-air interests related to people who are not hunting and who feel excluded from outdoor activities during a hunting period, and there are interests related to other forms of hunting, small game hunting, where there are also conflicts of interest that need to be balanced. That's what the director tries to do in the most reasonable way possible, so that you can co-exist. Just to conclude, as I said, there is a broad majority in the United Kingdom behind the solution that has been adopted here, and we feel that the Government has found comprehensive solutions here that both take care of the needs of many communities to be able to use hunting as an industry, with the balances with other interests in outdoor life and other forms of hunting that make it reasonable to have local decision-making authority for this. And it is well cared for by the country's people. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e464	Once we're in the process of decorating, I can decorate a little bit of the Council of State as well. Then I can say that I very much appreciate the fact that the Council of State emphasises the development of a business perspective related to hunting in Norway. Then it is that the new regulation works very well in 18 out of 19 states in Norway. Then there are signals from the Nord-Trøndelag that it does not work as well in the Nord-Trøndelag as in the other 18 states in Norway, and that the level of conflict between user interests and to the extent that local democracy, the County and the Directorate of Nature Management are somewhat higher in the Nord-Trøndelag. Will the Council of State take the initiative to address the problem in the Nord-Trøndelag and, where appropriate, take the necessary corrective action to reduce the level of conflict in the Nord-Trøndelag?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e473	I'm not familiar with the problem that Tord Lien here raises that there might be another practice in the Nord-Trøndelag and another level of conflict there. But I would like to think that at first what is said here in Stortinget from the Tord Liens side will be something you'll notice – both in the Nord-Trøndelag and in the Directorate of Nature Management. I have full confidence that they will find the right and good solutions without a directive from me. But when such a question is raised in the Storting, it is always worth noting that this is something that the nation's National Assembly, which is the country's top authority, has an interest in. They should then consider whether it would be appropriate for them to improve their practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e480	As stated in the statement, a unanimous committee points out that there are a number of good reasons for extending the hunting times of deer game, and that Norway is one of the European countries with the shortest hunting time for deer game. I think, as has also been pointed out earlier in the debate, that there is a point of light in this matter that a unanimous committee ends up on this. Does the Council also see that there are a number of positive effects and good reasons to extend the hunting times of deer game?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e488	First of all, the Government is in proportion to what the Great Government decides. When the majority of the Storting writes this, it's the government's law. That's how it always works. In addition to that, of course, I see a number of good reasons for it personally. But I want to say that that is also what is actually being followed up in practice. When, according to the figures I have – which I hope is up to date – for 83 municipalities, it has been an extension of the hunting time for elk and in 92 municipalities for deer, it is an indication that the local decision-making authority actually works. It functions in such a way that time is increased where there is a real need for it — and on the basis of the necessary balancing of this important consideration against other important considerations such as open-air interests for those who are not hunting, and for those who are engaged in other types of hunting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e495	Several have asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 547]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e515	Norway has great ambitions on behalf of itself in very many areas. Environment, climate, aid and agriculture are four areas where Norway expresses the objective of being a leading nation. This is a topic that is often debated in this Chamber — not so much about the noble goals that a person has set himself, but more about the means that he uses. It's not always, to put it mildly, a consensus that the systems are working, or that the benefits are in line with the cost. But there is not necessarily a disagreement that one wants to contribute to the development of agriculture in many places, that one wants to help countries develop, rather that one wants to take care of the environment and the climate. But sometimes in this debate, tools or products seem too good to be true. But perhaps even such miracles are rarely a reality. The so-called biomembrane may be such a product. That is why I want us to take a heavier political debate on this. In this way, politicians should know their visit time and see if they can contribute to framework conditions or financial support to test whether the miracle cure is a reality or whether it is bluff. In this case, it is particularly interesting because the product is involved, can be used by the state to achieve goals in a better and cheaper way. Therefore, the state has a self-interest in seeing if this works. Not all measures mentioned in the environmental and climate debate must be absolutely costly and unpopular if they are to have an impact – as we get the impression in the climate debate. This case ends up as an interpellation debate because I have brought it up with Minister of Environmental Protection and Development Erik Solheim three times in the last two years. Every time we've been wanted to be happy with the biomembrane. It is nice, but then the matter has been put in a drawer. It referred to the service path, the bureaucracy, and that there may be funds in the 2008 or 2009 budget – but that one should come back to it. There has obviously not been a matter that the Government prioritises. This can easily be illustrated by referring to the very high level of CO2 cleaning. This is not an argument against the technology project at Mongstad, but it shows that when the government and politicians want something, they do not sit down and wait for bureaucracy to deal with the matter. Then make a political decision and try to follow up as well as possible afterwards. This has not been the case in the case of biomembrane. So what's this biomembrane? First of all, it is a Norwegian developed product. Behind is Albedo Tech at Sandnes with founder Torfinn Johnsen, who won Technoport's award for innovative environmental technology. It's a quality stamp. Another quality stamp is that he has on the team with people from the University of Stavanger, from StatoilHydro and the Joint Purchase, to mention someone. There is also a growing cooperation with CICERO to test this out in the climate context. Let me stress that CICERO last year at the leadership position in Cicerone, his trade journal, referred to this as magic powder. This has not been a product that has been easily accepted in a heavier environment, it has been viewed as something light, as something pheasant. But what you see now is that results from tests are so convincing that you still sit down and look at it. The product consists of organic material, largely organic waste, such as seaweed, seagrass, fish waste and chicken faeces. This is transformed into a powdery form that is mixed with water and sprayed on the ground. There are initially three main areas of use. First, it increases the amount of water available in the soil by attaching the membrane to the top of the soil surface and preventing the water from needing far down or evaporation. The tests show that the membrane reduces the irrigation demand by up to 70 p.p., and that the plants become better able to exploit the small water that comes some places on this globe. Secondly, it affects the ground temperature. Biomembrane may, for example: to be added to white pigments limiting the soil heating of the sun. Tests carried out in Nigeria found up to a 15 degree reduction in ground temperature. Of course, this also helps to reduce water vaporisation. Thirdly, it reduces soil erosion in the ground. The membrane somehow glues the particles in the ground and can thus prevent desertification and other soil erosion in particularly vulnerable areas. You know that's a big cause for some of the problems you have, especially in Africa. Based on Norwegian policy objectives, this is a product that goes into four areas, as I mentioned. As far as assistance is concerned, it must be an objective to channel aid where they are most useful and that the assistance provided supports the long-term development of a country, its cost-effectiveness, ease of logistics and can be anchored in the reception area. Biomembrane appears there to be very suitable. This is an excellent example, because it requires little additional competence from the recipient, there is little need for technology or technological knowledge, and it can be used on a small and large scale – it is up to the user himself and the needs. This is literally help at grassroots level, because it works as a good agricultural tool. If you get things to grow and grow, local farmers can live off their crops instead of being very uncertain from year to year. It makes them financially independent, and they make the economy work better. The major fluctuations in food production are avoided, and this can help to reduce some of the disasters we have experienced. This can also be seen in the context of the jatropa plant, which I also mentioned with the Minister of Assistance, where biomembranes are used to make it more growth-friendly in an area, and biofuels can be grown. Biofuels are something for which everyone in this room is initially in favour, but there is a debate on certification and on the cultivation of biofuels is forcing other food production. For example, you can show them how to do this. that in Mozambique there are 40 million hectares of unproductive land on which no food can be grown, but on which the jatropa plant could be grown, thereby producing biofuels. In the context of the biomembrane, this seems very, very exciting. Biofuels are developed from a climate perspective. Then it's also important to emphasise the climate effects we can achieve from biomembrane. Besides the fact that biofuels can be grown, it is known that fertile soil holds better on CO2 than the desert does. It grows trees and plants that bind CO2 and incorporation of pigments can, as it were, affect the surface temperature. It's a very important part, because some research environments indicate that reduced albedo effects on the globe contribute to the warming, because when solar rays that enter are captured by the Earth's crust instead of being directly reflected, it changes the wavelength of the heat rays. The heat rays then emitted from the Earth have a wavelength much easier to capture by the greenhouse effect and CO2. If you can increase the immediate reflection, it will also help to reduce the temperature. The product has been tested in a number of areas. At Jären's home, there is a test area at Vik, which shows good results when used on different types of Norwegian agricultural products. But this has also been tested in Spain and Nigeria. In Technical Weekend No. 06/06 comments on Torfinn Johnsen tests carried out in Nigeria. He says, ‘For three days, the germination was 100 percent in fields covered with the biomembrane. The water content was 31 per cent and the temperature of the soil surface was 33 degrees Celsius.» In the reference fields on the side where they had not sprayed the biomembrane, the germination was only 35 pst., i.e. one third. The water content in the ground was only 15 pst. It was less than half. The temperature was 47 degrees Celsius, compared to 33 degrees. It shows that there is something here that works without me fully understanding how, but the results are exciting. It appears to be an interesting tool in Norway’s aid to combat food shortages, deforestation, desertification and climate policy in general. With such an exciting product, why is there a theme in this room? It's because, as I said in the beginning, it's in the state's own interest to see if this works. If it keeps that promise, it's revolutionary. Therefore, I want the State to enter and contribute financially on a very small scale to test out the product and also contribute to the relevant research competence, for example. at the University of Environment and Life Sciences at Ås, to evaluate and adapt the product. For success, this can be used on a large scale to achieve policy objectives far more cost-effectively than today. In addition, such an approved stamp from the Norwegian State would be an important contribution to accelerating its commercialisation. It must be in our own interest that other countries also want to make use of this, if the effects are so good. But of course, one should not use the biomembrane uncritically on a large scale. We have to check that there is no biological reaction here that is not predicted. It's good to know how much area you cover if you're going to have a climate effect. I was a little skeptical as to whether I wanted to achieve something with this interpellation, but when I saw that last week's oil and energy minister Haga said to Torfinn Johnsen that we had to sit down and put together a scheme to help this project 'over kneel', I look forward to the Environment Minister Solheim confirming today that it is the government's policy. I look forward to hearing the articles of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e566	Let me first give the representative Solvik-Olsen all the honor of having brought this up repeatedly, held on to it and demonstrated a permanent capacity of which it stands respect. It is also true, as the representative himself suggests, that there have been a good deal of reactions, such as: why is he massaging this again? But let me make sure I take this very seriously. We're going to do what we can to see if this is a product that can be of great importance. But let me start with some slightly general reflections about it, because this points to something that is more general, and that is one of the most difficult problems that politicians face, namely the fact that we have no competence in technology choices. I am sure that the representative also agrees with me. As a government council, I get hundreds of suggestions from various inventors around the country, who think they've invented very important things. Sometimes, as the representative himself expressed, this seems to be too good to be true. In most cases, of course, it's not too good to be true, it's of less importance. But it's also true that in some cases it's too good to be true and important. If Edison had been dependent on state aid for his products when he started out as the world's greatest inventor, with the bulb and the side of recording sound, he would hardly get any of it going. Even safer is that there was no one who predicted when Bill Gates and his friends sat in the boys' room up in Seattle and found out how to start with a little computer and make it big, that it was possible. So world history is filled with examples of inventors who have revolutionized the world through their product. But of course, there are many more examples of products that have been blinded. This is the dilemma facing politicians. I have no competence to assess this or other products with certainty. It is possible that Solvik-Olsen has greater competence here, but it is at least a difficult dilemma for us as politicians. There's only two ways out of that dilemma that I know about. One way is called the market. A product must show its importance in a market vis-à-vis users, faced with other products and must demonstrate its importance. The second route is through a professional, technological and scientific assessment of independent bodies and other bodies. This product, too, must demonstrate its importance in one way or another, by the fact that the market sees its significance and thus buys it, or by the fact that other technological and scientific environments look at it thoroughly and consider it interesting. Now it's my opinion that the last one is about to happen. This is a product that has been priced and which is considered interesting by others by other bodies to be in favour of testing it. That's where the test of the product must lie, whether others or the market consider this to be good enough, not knowing if I consider it good enough, because I simply don't have the competence to do so. All that is said from the interpellant about the importance of such a potential product is, of course, correct. Climate change, especially in Africa, will lead to reduced food production. Africa is the continent that has suffered a drastic reduction in food production over the past two decades, while everyone else has had a drastic increase in food production. In particular, increased food production is the very basis for the fantastic economic development of China and many countries in the Far East. Without it, they could not have had that growth, while Africa has produced 12 psts in the same period. minor food, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. All projections in terms of climate change in Africa indicate a significantly drier climate, which will make farming more difficult. If this product is a ‘child’ egg, it can help – if not what is promised, so in any case what is said – to bring up the fertility of the soil, it can contribute to the dampening of global warming, and it can contribute to reflecting solar energy back to the atmosphere, and it will be a very positive contribution. If you can also show that the absorption of CO2 increases where the powder is poured out, of course it will also be very positive. The mechanisms we have in Norway for such a product in demonstrating its importance lie primarily in Innovation Norway, which aims to contribute to innovation, and which, of course, with its occasional limited resources will help to bring forward important new products. In addition, we have some schemes for products that have been developed to make them more commercially available. In the area of assistance, I opened a guidance office earlier this year for industrial development in the south, which also intends to help Norwegian industry and Norwegian products to find more markets in poor countries. In all these areas, there are general schemes and they have also contributed to supporting the biomembrane. According to the figures I received, Albedo Tech received aid of 3.5 million in the period 2002-2006. kr from Innovation Norway, and they have also been allocated SEK 145 000 in project support from the Norwegian Research Council Food Programme in 2007. It shows that some have been done. I'm sure you can always say that more should have been done, but it's done a good deal. With regard to the funds directly made available by the Ministry of the Environment, it is primarily through the Research Council that such products can be obtained. When I stress this over and over again, it is precisely because it is within the general schemes in which a product is assessed in the same way as other competent professional environments that one has to win, not through special schemes and by a politician falling in love with a particular product. Now I am aware that Albedo Tech has concluded an agreement, which is also referred to by the representative, with CICERO, Bioforsk and the Polar Institute. That's exactly what I'm asking for, that's a competent assessment of other independent professional environments, which can assess in a completely different way whether the project has the value it's claimed to have. This allows you to test whether the product has a value in a global context. Should such tests indicate a great probability of that or good hope for it, I am the first to show great interest in this, both in a development and in an environmental perspective. The joy of the product is that it can contribute both to increased food production and to reduced environmental damage. So at the end of its article, the interpellant shifts into the theme of biofuels. Let me say that's also an interesting theme. I've only talked directly in the last month to Norwegian investors who want to invest in biofuels both in Mozambique and in Ghana. Nothing is better than stimulating more Norwegian investment in Africa. There are many environmental and other problems related to biofuels. But as a matter of fact, there's a positive possibility. If we were to get another generation of biofuels based on waste products from the forest, it would be a formidable revolution across the environment. Even with today's biofuels, there are many good products, but there are also problems with it by risking rainforests being cut down. In some cases, all input factors in the case of biofuels, in the form of fertilisers, irrigation plants and conversion processes, may be at risk of using more energy than that produced in the form of biofuels. But let me nevertheless assure you, as a conclusion to this, that the Government has an absolutely positive basic attitude to biofuels. We believe that international certification systems are needed to ensure that rainforests are not cut down in order to provide space for biofuels, but there is a positive opportunity for an environmental improvement to get to another generation of biofuels. If it is possible to obtain biofuel inputs in places where nothing else is possible, as the interpellant is talking about, it is of very great and positive importance. I will help support the Norwegian companies that want to invest in Africa, with the political advice and guidance that can then be provided. But to close, the government has a positive base setting for the biomembrane. We are prepared to find schemes and to support such a product. Should it prove to be of great importance, we will of course contribute to the international launch and marketing of it. However, like all other products, this product must demonstrate its justification either through the market or through independent assessments by competent professional bodies. The crucial point I now see is the collaboration with CICERO and other institutions in the testing of biomembrane.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e599	I'm a little uncertain about how to interpret this. I feel that the Council of State actually refers to the Research Council and others, considering that there should be an application for funds in competition with others and must prove its excellence. It was not the impression of oil and energy minimists – self-appointed climate minister – Haga expressed to the NRK on 15 November following a meeting with Torfinn Johnsen. She said, "We have to sit down and put together a setup to help this project over the knee." I hope that the Council of State will confirm in its statement that it will be followed up. Whether it happens through the Research Council or other advice, it doesn't matter to me, but what I want to get a confirmation of is that this will be actively followed up, and ensure that they test out the product and contribute funding. We're really talking about a fainting little sum here. This is probably a one-digit million amount – not a two-digit figure, not a three-digit figure, nor a one-digit billion amount, as the Government does in the case of CO2 clean-up at Kårstø. I fully agree that the product must show its excellence. It is the market to determine whether this is a commercialised product that has the right to life. I also get a lot of enquiries about inventions that are going to save the world, but in most cases, after a quick review or after conversations with the person, you can see that here it is a person who has invented something that already exists, or that is not of the dimension they themselves want it to. But this is different, and it is therefore in the country's own interest to try it out – as could, if not otherwise, not because one should subsidize development; the product development here has largely taken place. The point now is to test it out, so that you get proof. Then, too, because Norway wants to have a great self-interest in seeing how the product works, one can contribute to this. I would like to remind the Council of State that he actually represents a government that went to the elections on a very active industrial policy, where one just said that one should be involved in supporting Norwegian business and being involved in getting what stands out. One would even save the Union – that did not happen! I also have to ask the question: to what extent has this government allowed the market to assess whether CO2 cleaning of gas power plants is the exceptional way of spending a billion dollars in relation to other measures? I don't think there's been any market assessment there. There's the government that's made a political choice. This is also what this case is about – a product that is so special that a political person should have an interest in saying that this is something you should try. I would hope that one in this debate could conclude that the Stortinget has now made its first climate settlement in the climate negotiations. We would appreciate that, because this was actually a recording that I made in a letter in the spring to the Working Party Hill-Marta Solberg – I think it was point number. 6th@item: inlistbox If this government now shows that it takes this as part of the climate work, I think it's very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e622	In this round I think that I leave all comments about gas power plants and others. I am sure that we will have ample opportunity to get back to Stortinget at later times. When it comes to this matter, I'm trying to be a little precise and a little principleal. If the interpellant asks if I want to take this one product out of the queue and say that this is the only blessing, and that there is going to be money for it, then my answer is no. On the other hand, if he asks whether this is a sensible product that I have a strong desire for Innovation Norway, the Research Council, CICERO and the other institutes that are now trying to assess this, go in and make a professional assessment of whether it is eligible, then they have their backs – and I am sure of other government councils too, to say it like that, in their backs – if they do. But they are the ones who have to make the professional assessment, and I hope they can find out the arrangements that allow this to be tried out. It'll be very positive. I think we're going to have an absolutely impossible situation, both in the field of the environment and development, if I'm going to be Norway's top inventor who's going to take a stand on the content of every single invention made around the country. There are many good inventions in Norway, and I think this is one of the most promising. This is not what this discussion is about, but this is an indication that there is a very promising invention for which there is every reason to try out and for which there is every reason to find support schemes. However, the final technical evaluation of this must be carried out by Innovation Norway, by the Research Council and by the competent bodies. But I would like to, to satisfy the interpellant, here and now say that I hope they find out arrangements that allow this to be tried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e633	I am pleased that the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen from the Progress Party addresses this matter in this Chamber and gets this in focus. This has been in focus for a long time, but it seems here that there is a very interesting case that more and more people notice. The product biomembrane has its origins in my home country, Rogaland, and, as you know, it comes very well from Rogaland. In this specific case, in terms of this invention, it seems to be an exceptionally good case. The founder of the invention has received Technoport's prize for the innovative environmental technology on which he sits and, as the interpellant also said, this is a price that hangs high. It also supports how interesting this product is when it's noticed in those circles. I would also like to mention that climate change can be a technological solution – and it must be – in the same way that the new technology has helped to solve the challenges we had in the 1990s, namely this with the hole in the ozone layer, when we tackled the refrigerator and other things. It was important, and you did it. Biomembrane can be a technology that can help us get control of the man-made CO2 emissions. This organic powder, which does not cause any damage, can produce fertility in soil, which in some areas is very weak, in addition can contribute to the dampening of global warming, and it can help to reflect more solar energy back into the atmosphere. However, if this really proves to work like a believer and hopeful, it could be a positive contribution to the mitigation of climate change damage. We also know that people have always shown themselves to be creative and solution-oriented when faced with major challenges. Fortunately, the founder has seen this, and he has glowed with an idea that he has been working with for several years. Now there are several people who have worked together on this. University of Rogaland, StatoilHydro etc. has also been involved and helped here. As the minister said, there was a total of 3.5 million. In addition to the support provided by the Norwegian Food Programme for 2007 by the Norwegian Research Council, in support of Innovation Norway at the end of 2006. It is through these programmes that one must go further. It's where the professional competence lies, and that's where it has to be backed up. It's, as I say, through these a must go on to get this product tested out in a proper and good way. I also think that the general schemes have quite useful support schemes. It's through the general arrangements you have to go in here. Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Council, with the arrangements in place there, as I mentioned, and as the Council of State also mentioned, have shown the highest degree of initiative. These are the two instruments we have. They've shown interest, and they've backed this up. Now we're also giving political signals that you're going to go through these disciplines if this is life-created, which I sincerely hope it is. It's important to back up such things. CICERO and other research environments have also noticed this and backed it up. I think we're on a really good track, and I want this inventor and this environment to be happy for you. We're going to give them the political backing they deserve. This also says those who have had the word for now, and I'm assuming that those who are left on the list of speakers are going to say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e654	This weekend, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented the last part of its fourth main report on climate change. The last interim report is a summary of the three previous reports, but it provides concrete advice to politicians on how to mitigate global warming. The report notes that heating can be stabilised by using a wide portfolio of technologies that are either available today or are expected to become commercially available in the next decades. The Climate Panel notes that the costs associated with addressing climate problems are not large. At best, stabilising greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere will increase by 1 pst. GDP. The Chairman of the Climate Panel, Dr Pachauri, concluded the presentation of the report in Valencia on Saturday with the following Gandhi quotation: "Be the change you want to see in the world." Torfinn Johnsen's invention biomembrane can quickly prove to be one of the technologies that can help solve the climate problem. As a person with relatively limited insight into biological and chemical processes, I will leave the professional assessments to others. However, I have realized that the idea behind the invention of biomembrane is to develop nature's own solar and humidity system – and that is something I understand. An organic, bright material is spread over the earth, which means that the earth reflects more of the solar radiation. Larger solar reflection leads to lower earth’s surface temperature, which in turn dampens the biological activity by reducing the production of greenhouse gases, such as greenhouse gases. CO2 and water vapour. In addition to reducing earth’s greenhouse gas emissions, the biomembrane has the function of making it easier to grow things, on which the interpellant was involved, which then contributes to increasing food production on earth. Test shows that the membrane can lower the temperature by seven to eight degrees in the upper soil. It is very gratifying that there are inventors like Torfinn Johnsen in Norway. Through his company Albedo Tech, he is developing a technology that might be part of the solution to the greatest challenge of our time, that of global warming. The invention can in the long term contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, while leading to increased food production in areas of the world with a high level of drought and poor food security. I have not heard of any invention with such a potential to solve major global, political and ethical challenges. Then there's also reason to wait for further results of testing and research on the biomembrane before we draw any final conclusions. As far as I am aware, there is currently a larger test of the biomembrane at Planteforsk at Klepp, such as: to determine whether the product can contribute to the dampening of desertification, the creation of green growth and the binding of more CO2. The biomembrane is currently an immature technology that has not been made commercially available. However, if the further research and testing of the biomembrane confirms its positive characteristics and leads to its commercial availability, it should also become an important instrument in the context of Norwegian aid, environmental and climate policies. For the time being, the biomembrane should form a central part of national research into climate-friendly technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e679	Our new oil and energy minister – and self-appointed climate minister – was recently in Rogaland. Then she expressed herself about the biomembrane, and said to the NRK that we had to sit down and put together a scheme to help this project over the knee. Then people thought that a long effort to find a solution to the financing of the round that now needs to be carried out in order to ensure the quality of this product could be started, and that funding would be in place. Everyone who heard Åslaug Haga say that we have to sit down and screw up, expected that she spoke about the government, and that the government through this promised that it would contribute funding that could help this project over the knee. When I heard this, I thought that it was almost too good to be true. After hearing the Minister for the Environment today, much indicates that it was too good to be true. Åslaug Haga, who from the day one who self-appointed climate minister said that the government's efforts in the climate field have been too bad, and that we need a more offensive attitude, obviously didn't have a back coverage in the government to go out and say that we have to get together and put together a setup to help this project over the knee. I agree with the Council of State when he says that it is not up to politicians to sort out good projects. But sometimes good projects, supported by heavy trade unions, come in a situation where they need help to get over their knees, and where the pioneers who have raised the projects – driven them by their own means and with their own efforts – are at risk of giving up if they do not get help over their knees. There are examples that the Government shows creativity and connects arrangements. It would have been natural if the Government, in cooperation with the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of the Environment and Development, found a solution on this project, as I find that the Council of State Haga has promised. I hope that a closer reflection will come that this is a project that the Government will actively support, and not just, as the Council of State says today, have a positive basic attitude. For this project's problem has been that there has been a lot of positive basic attitude and some support, but not enough to raise this up as one has to do to get the product's quality assurance properties. I believe that in the context of climate work, we are facing challenges that may mean that we may have to go unorthodox in some contexts. Testing some solutions for some projects in this way can be such a grip in the service of the good case. In climate work, we need a lot of small steps and a broad commitment, but we also need some big steps that can give great results. Therefore, the Left wholeheartedly supports the development of clean-up technologies for gas power plants and coal-fired power plants. It could be a big hold. It would have been exciting for Norway if we could also help raise the biomembrane as a big grip. It remains to be seen whether it can be, but the indications so far are very promising. I hope the Government will help bring the project over to the knees and not contribute to a long desert migration so that this project is at risk of having to be scrapped instead of being realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e692	First, I would like to thank the representatives of Kvassheim and Holten Hämdal for their support. I must almost wish you good luck in the climate negotiations with the party of the said Council of State, for if one is unable to turn up 8 million. To test what the Minister for Oil and Energy – and the Minister for Climate Change – has promised the Government to deliver, I cannot see that a person is able to turn up DKK 10-20 billion for the other projects on the list. Good luck! I record that the Council of State here in reality confirms that «Climate Minister» Haga has promised more than she has coverage for, and more than she will hold. So this was the NRK's essentially all Thursday. It went over and over again on the radio. The environmental invention biomembrane would get help from the Government was the message. This occurred after a longer interview with the «Climate Minister» Haga. Even after the interview was over, the journalist called me and asked: Now, Solvik-Olsen, will you draw this interpellation – there is no need for it now that Haga has promised that this will be carried out? Then I said, "No, I want the interpellation anyway, because I want it confirmed in Stortinget that what is promised under four eyes is kept." – It is sad that this has become a debate that confirms that Haga will not keep what she promised. I remind you once again that this government went to the elections on an active industrial policy. Then I wonder what the word 'active' means in a red-green world, in a Soria Moria adventure world. Does it only consist of actively making congratulations, but not with political grips? I am not asking the State Council to be the top inventor in Norway. I ask him to be a politician who knows his visitation time. Is it bureaucracy or is it politicians who decide what the government's climate and environmental policy should be after all? Is it such that the only thing the government does is sit and wash inch eights until the bureaucracy is done handling applications, and then they hope that what they think is exciting comes out with a yes-stamp from the bureaucracy? Or is it that, as a politician, you sometimes intervene and say that this is something we want to do, because it's a political goal, that's something we want to achieve -- as the government has done in terms of CO2 cleaning, which is going to cost billions of dollars, and which hopefully is spent billions of dollars? However, in this case you are not even willing to do so, at a cost of between 6 and 8 million. kr, to show and test whether this is a product that can be used by the country on a large scale. Governments say that CICERO and others have helped to help. But CICERO is paying for every thing they do in this case. It is not that CICERO contributes to free labour. What is done is actually to be paid, and CICERO is not getting the money to do this work over the state budget. So it's from the biomembrane inventor's pocket. I hope the Council of State can confirm in the last round that Haga's promises will be fulfilled anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e708	I'm a little surprised by the tiny tone that the interpellant has in his last post, after a debate that, as I see it, must be brilliant from both the inventor's and the interpellant's side. This is a debate which has shown that there is a cross-political consensus in this Chamber that this is very interesting. It is confirmed by the Workers' Party, from the Christian People's Party, from the Left, from the Advance Party and from the SV. It is possible that I have overlooked some, but everyone who has spoken has said that this is a very interesting product, which there is every reason to follow further. It must be assumed that the professional bodies follow the hour, that the Research Council, Innovation Norway and others record that there is a broad desire in the United Kingdom to move forward on this. Then they have to give their professional advice on that basis. But I'm fully prepared to talk to them. The only thing I can't do is lift me to some kind of professional superior, who decides in detail what is good inventions or not in Norway. If the founder or interpellant can clarify exactly what is needed to get the necessary trial of this, I am prepared, of course, to talk to the various professional bodies about how we can achieve this, based on the broad interest it is in Stortinget, and the great interest I have in the product myself. Let me also add that I do not share the contempt that the interpellant has for the so-called bureaucracy. So this bureaucracy is the professional body that knows a lot about these issues in Norway, and that the Progress Party in many other contexts promises if the technical advice fits in with them. So let's not talk negatively about this bureaucracy. We, as politicians, are totally dependent on good, professional advice from competent people who have time to study a subject. If the interpellant is not satisfied with the outcome of this, I do not know what he will be satisfied with. The whole Stortinget has confirmed that there is a great interest in this. I have clearly said that I hope we can find solutions to that. I am also prepared to have direct contact with the professional services to see how we can lift this project above the knee to which the interpellant refers. I just have to ask the inventor to contact us, and we'll look at what's going on to get the necessary professional experience of this product. What we can't cancel is the need for either the market or other professional bodies to the seventh and ultimately evaluate something neither interpellant, I or anyone else in this room have enough prerequisites for, that is, the professional quality of something that seems to be a very promising and good invention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e718	Case No. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e736	Modernisation and conversion of the state should have been the first priority for the Council of State and for the Government in recent years. There are three main reasons for that. Firstly, the good economic times are excellent to make the necessary conversion, and to make the conversion less painful for the affected. Secondly, the lack of labour is the country's biggest challenge. And thirdly, we know that the welfare community is already in a gap in expectations, where people's demands for quality of public services go beyond our ability to deliver. I believe that there is a broad consensus in principle that modernisation of the public sector is necessary. The cross-policy work done both with the pension reform and with the NAV reform is based on this recognition. However, these are reforms that have two main objectives: to keep public cash payments in check and to distort welfare systems in the direction that working becomes more profitable. When it comes to modernising public service production and focusing on public service requirements, it seems that political consensus is disappearing. On 4 October this year, the Government presented its renewal strategy: ‘A strong and efficient public sector’. That's the background for this interpolation. After a considerable amount of work, all the recordings, and not least the time it has taken to create this strategy, I had great expectations of the content. On the right was one of many who contributed to many good, concrete proposals through the consultation process. Unfortunately, the strategy is a disappointment. There were not many tracks to find neither ours nor many others' input into the plan. The strategy contains largely only general formulations and no concrete, measurable criteria for success. On the basis of the plan, I understand that the Government is concerned about the process and cooperated with the employees. It is positive as a choice of methods to bring about the renewal of the public sector. But it would have been an advantage to know what was the goal of the work. In many ways, the process appears to be the goal itself. One could almost believe that the Council of State had brought with it the party culture of the Socialist Left Party, where the discussion is the very purpose, into the work of renewing the public sector. ‘The boat will be added while you are ruddering.’ If one puts the ‘Modernisation for Welfare’ of the Centre-Right government next to a ‘strong and efficient public sector’, it quickly sees that these are two totally different strategies. The first one has a general objective that is clear from the title. The aim is to shift resources from bureaucracy to well-being, from paper transfer to care and education. Then there are six concrete instruments: simplification, freedom of choice, effective management, completion of reforms under way, transparency and, finally, binding objectives. In each area, there is a concrete proposal with a deadline for implementation. Finally, the user is judged through 10 user satisfaction indicators, which will be better in 2009 than in 2004. This inter-pelling debate does not allow a complete review and comparison of these areas against the current government strategy. I have therefore selected a few areas. First of all, it's the overall approach. While «Modernisation for Welfare» is based on a fundamental idea that changing is an important strategy to preserve the welfare society and its emergence, it may seem that «A strong and effective public sector» is based on preserving and strengthening – more of the same – as a strategy to safeguard the welfare society, or more correctly in this context: the welfare state. Then we are on our way back to the starting point: the challenges of labour shortages and the gap in expectations. If we look at future developments in the labour market, there is no doubt that we need a strategy to avoid further shifting the balance between public welfare and private value creation. There is a mutual dependence between private value creation and public welfare distribution. If one is not aware of this, two very serious situations may arise: either that the public is constantly losing its competitiveness in terms of labour and thus not able to carry out its tasks, or that the public is actually continuing as it is now, and in addition, gaining all the labour they need at all times, thereby distorting private business and private value creation. In this way, the public will not be able to finance well-being in the long term. This can only be met by both increasing labour supply and, not least, giving better priority to the use of labour in the public sector than at present. This perspective is totally lacking in the Government’s strategy, despite the fact that the Minister of Finance, when presenting the 2008 government budget, underlined the labour shortage as the main challenge for the Norwegian economy. More public-friendly opening times in the public sector have been raised on several occasions. We were therefore positively surprised when extended opening hours were the Council of State's first play as Minister of Renewal. She launched this idea as early as 4 December 2005 at the trade union cartel conference of the trade union movement. She said that opening hours are a problem in the public sector and need to be better adapted to people's needs. Many people need public offices that are open beyond 2:30 p.m. or within normal working hours. I fully agree and was pleased that the Minister of Renewal so quickly agreed with his predecessor's playoffs in the election campaign about exactly the same thing. But what has happened? Not a thing! The most eye-catching thing is that this isn't at all a strategy issue. If a user of the dictionary that one has on Stortinget’s intranet, one will find that the words ‘opening time’ and ‘opening time’ do not actually exist in the document. For a long time, the right has said – and called for – that if we are to be able to do something about the opening hours of the state, we must have concrete objectives for each area and give the offices priority to most public enquiries, such as: Car authorities offices, passport offices and NAV offices. But I mean, not a single word. It is quite alarming to note that you still see that people have to get up early in the morning – almost sleep over outside the Car Authority offices – that people have to take time off from work and take the kids out of school to get their passports renewed, and that the NAV offices also do not have an opening time that is adapted to the needs of users. Many services cannot be accessed via the Internet. Many services are not available because they become available online, and many users do not, and are not, want to use the Internet. This brings me to the last topic: lack of concrete goals. My claim is that in 2009, when evaluating the work on this strategy, it will be completely impossible to give a clear assessment of the success of the strategy. The reason is simple: there are no concrete targets with indicators. Where Morten Meyer's plan was brutal in setting up public judgment in ten concrete areas as a goal of success, this strategy lurks into general considerations. I think it is positive with StatRes as the state response to the municipality's KOSTRA. It will be a good analytical tool, but it is too extensive to serve as objectives for a strategy. That would be the same thing as saying that our goal is that everything should be better, and in addition, we should be more effective if that's good. There are general objectives that it is impossible to assess afterwards whether one has succeeded. It'll always be something that's positive, always something that's negative. It's always going to be so that the result can be discussed. To get the necessary pressure on modernisation, the renewal of the public sector, one must also dry up some priority areas and some clear objectives for work. But of course, it can be that if you do not want to succeed in this work, if you have the aim of avoiding at all in any area a discussion or conflict with the employees' or employees' organisations, it is an advantage to have such general objectives, so that general formulations, that you do not have the opportunity to be evaluated afterwards. The question becomes whether the Council of State sees the need to take radical action in connection with the state's modernisation work, precisely in order to preserve the welfare society that everyone ends up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e766	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for giving the Storting with this interpellation a new opportunity to discuss the renewal strategy. We were so far within this in the persuasion debate, but at least we believe that the renewal strategy is so good that he is reviving yet another debate. So thank you to the representative Bent Höie for that. Then the representative in his question is out to know what the government will do in three key areas: expanding opening hours in the public sector, lack of labour for service production and a alleged lack of concrete, measurable success criteria in the renewal strategy. The representative, Höie, refers to the modernisation plan presented by the Government of Bondevik II. Our renewal strategy, of course, differs from the previous government's modernisation plan, because we stand for a completely different policy when it comes to the public sector than the previous government did. While the Bondevik II government wanted to launch competition in the municipalities and, to the extent possible, in the state, we are strengthening the municipal economy and building up welfare. While they viewed their public share of GDP as the biggest challenge, it is the environmental challenges that disturb us. The policy before talking about preferences, the user chooses a provider. We want users to be involved in creating the services they want and what they want to offer. The Government of Bondevik II said that the public sector should learn from and preferably resemble the private sector. Our strategy is that the public sector should be renewed as a public sector and also take responsibility and lead in important areas. Mr. Bondevik II weakened them to add their elaborate dishes to create so-called flexibility. For us, it is important that they add their rights to be safe and at the bottom so that they are involved in creating the renewal virtue that we want, and it is precisely the security that has made the public sector as adaptable as the public sector has been in recent years. For this I'm happy, I, because the representative Höie has seen that there is a difference between our strategy and the plan that Morten Meyer put forward. That was also the point! Right-wing modernization is reminiscent of what has happened in Denmark, but there is now an emerging recognition that this medicine was wrong. Eight public sector leaders recently went out in Denmark in a published chronicle in the newspaper Politics under the heading: «Forgive us – didn't know what we were doing.» They write among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘We have set in motion a very comprehensive system of contracts, evaluations, annual reports, accreditations and so on, without leading to increased satisfaction with the quality. Many of the things that have been introduced in the last 10-15 years to promote productivity and quality have now begun to hamper the development of the public sector. In some places it is also about a direct destructive control.’ The self-criticism triggered a major debate in Denmark. One of the consequences is that the State Council of the Ministry of Labour has signalled to all employees that contracts need to be reduced as a steering gear. It is not SV who is in government in Denmark, to have said it! The most important refurbishment work in the coming years is primarily the major reforms of the NAV and the Pension Reform. We have to get them to the finish line. Their main objective is not, as the representative Höie says, financial efficiency and control of payments. It was primarily for users to get a door, meet all the government and municipal services that they need, behind a door, with a case handler – not ten different ones. I would like to insist that this is the most important thing about the NAV reform. In addition to these major reforms, which are now taking up 11,000 citizens, adding 4,000 to 5,000 municipalities, and which are so important to achieve, we have said that using new technologies, developing new self-punishment solutions and creating a user-friendly and day-to-day electronic management is the most important thing. That's what I get to the right of the inhabitants. That's what the leaders give me. That's what I get right of them added to the public sector. Thus, the strategy itself has a whole range of concrete individual measures that also have a lot of temptations, these that are to enter Misside not least, which are to make life easier both for us who are citizens and not least for the business community in this country, but which are also to help an internal manager communicate electronically and not send paper in the old way, so back and forth a risk that a discharge from a hospital will end up in the hospital three weeks after she has returned to her place. We can't have it that way. Electronic interaction is an essential part of the strategy. Let me stress that all new electronic communications with the inhabitants should of course be universally designed to capture all the inhabitants, so that no one should stand outside. We want to renew and convert the public sector into layers with them added. There is no goal for us to weaken them in adding their rights. We're playing with them, because we see that it's best for them to think about how they can work faster, and how they can provide more quality in their services. Then we have to play on layers with the added ones, not tree finished solutions down their heads. We believe that a strong, effective public sector is a commitment to ensuring well-being. The success criterion for us is the well-being state, the Nordic welfare model. He stands strongly among our inhabitants. Last week, when I was at an innovation workshop in conjunction with the Minister of Industry, a founder of Sogn and Fjordne said that those who were closed by the private companies are the ones who are interacting well with the public sector. Private enterprises are not least concerned with a well-functioning public sector. As I said, it is not simply to bet on simple new reforms when we already have major reforms going on. That's the sum of the small and big that's important. And, as we have just summarised, after two years of renewal, we have 279 measures, small and large. This is the everyday renewal in the public sector. It's this people meeting, and as they see, the public sector has changed – 279 measures – and we're only halfway. When the representative Höie is concerned that the word ‘opening times’ is not mentioned in our renewal strategy – we are talking about day-to-day electronic management – it is now not quite correct. But it's also because we have a different view of how we're going to deal with opening hours than what the previous government had, which meant that one should take ten floors and say so, it should be, determined from Oslo, without looking at what the budgets actually are doing by public law, and without looking at what the need for the individual level is actually. The most important thing to do is to be flexible, to ensure that leaders are clearly required to look at opening hours. One should have user searches where one actually checks if the opening hours are in line with what people are waiting for. Of course, user surveys should be public, online and easily accessible to both the media, the inhabitants and the business community so that they can use it as a scale, and also use it as a motivation factor to make things better. The majority in the committee were also some with the Government of the latter in Innst.S. No 47 for 2006-2007 from November, where they said: ‘Opening times need to be adapted to today’s work and family life.The majority also indicated that ‘Opening time needs vary from sector to sector and for different parts of the country. It is therefore wrong for the Storting to set opening times for the whole country. Local authorities, together with employees and the management of the various offices, must be best placed to determine opening hours». Of course, I'm in agreement with the plural. We underline that the strategy sets out demands, clear demands for agencies and offices to get clear feedback from the audience. All state agencies shall regularly carry out user investigations and measure the satisfaction of users, and it shall be open, as I said, about both the investigations and their results. Of course, users' views of opening hours are part of the studies. In the renewal strategy, we have seven strategies for further renewal work. ‘Norway online — Electronic services for all’ is one of the strategies. And to be honest, I actually think it's more important for people to be able to deliver their own text messages with a text message than that the equation office necessarily has an open hour or two longer. A few will still need it, but when over two million Norwegians deliver their own messages online, it means that the world looks different than she did a few years ago. In an electronic world with public service provision electronically, we have 24 hours a day, seven days a week. So for the lack of labour. I could have used one of my own interpolations on that. There's a lot of work to do. Just since we took over, we have 150,000 more employment sets. It's clear that there's a huge deal about developments both in the public sector and, not least, in the private sector, where we have an equal need for labour. We do a lot to free the workforce, of course through the renewal strategy, to get people to do the services themselves, as one has done in banking for years. Now we have to do it in the state as well. It frees labour to take on new tasks in other areas, which we see as examples in the tax rate. For my part, I can also say that the Government has made it easier to register labour from EEA countries into Norway. It was a paper mill of another value. Now we've made it easier. In addition, I have three attempts in the state sector now, moderate quotas for immigrants, training programmes to get young people with advanced disabilities to work, and attempts at six-hour days just so that the seniors won't get rid of the AFP when they're 62 years old, but continue until they're at least 67 years old. These are all proposals that are conducive to freeing labour to both the private and the public sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e823	I was not reassured by the Council of State's answers. On the contrary. The answer shows that this is an area where there will obviously be major political disagreement in the years to come. It's in a way maybe the only point that the Council of State said, that I fully agree with. But I think history will judge the government of Stoltenberg-II very hard for all the lost opportunities of this government. The fact that, in the situation in which the country is now, it is not possible to take all the necessary basic steps to change the public sector in order to preserve the welfare society we have, and leave it sustainable into a new era, I think history will judge this government harshly for not doing so. When you hear the review from the Council of State, it's basically a defense for what you don't do, and a defense to go on like before. Our government is being attacked for the renewal work it started in Kommune-Norway, and then it boasts of how much money you transfer to the municipalities without having registered that the country is being provided in these days with municipal budgets that basically involve cuts in all the welfare areas. What's the reason for that? Well, the reason is that the expectations given to the municipalities by this government are in no way relative to the money put at the disposal of the municipalities. In Kommune-Norway today, there is an expected crisis that this government totally overlooks, and in addition, neither the necessary tools nor the necessary ‘backing’ of the important and necessary conversion work that Kommune-Norway is facing. Then she pulls out that the previous government had a goal of reducing the public share of GDP. That's probably the only point where this government continues the policy of the previous government. The public share of GDP has continued to fall even during this government, despite SV's rhetoric. In terms of user choice and participation, I believe that the difference between the previous government and this government's policy in this area is that while the previous government would grant older people not only the right to complain, but also the right to exchange if you are not satisfied with the services, this government holds the right to complain. The consequences of this have been seen in the last few weeks in the local government of Kongsberg. In relation to Denmark, I would like to say that I believe that the citizens of Denmark are reasonably satisfied with the renewal work that has been carried out there. Not least, one might consider that it is a country that actually manages to have a government that is re-elected year after year on the policy they pursue. I don't think that's going to be the case here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e838	I am somewhat surprised that the representative Bent Höie from the Right Party wonders that we are pursuing a different policy when it comes to the public sector than the Right did, when it was Right who directed both the Ministry of Renewal and the Ministry of Local Affairs for the entire previous period. I'm a little surprised at that. What one experienced in the debates in Stortinget in the previous period was exactly the same inconsistency, but then with opposite state councils on the pulpit. At that time, we were in opposition and were free of the Morten Meyer and Victor Norman government councils' policy of modernisation. That is why we are pursuing a completely different policy. I note that the Right still does not understand that they have taken mistakes, but I think we should have continued the work that Morten Meyer did. I'm not defending anything. On the contrary, I am very pleased with the renewal work done in the public sector. The public sector has been shown to be very adaptable. He is still. He is subject to new demands every day. The most important thing is what is now happening in relation to electronic management. Something that really reverses the way you work is that you can make it easier for people to do their own services, which they have done for a long time in the private sector. We order our own tickets, and we pay our own bills online. We're happy with it, without going to the bank. This will be the everyday routine of more and more government services, so we'll talk about renewal every single day. The representative, Höie, is busy saying that the inhabitants do not have the right to complain. But I see that in the alternative state budget they cut over 600 million. kr in the budgets of the State administration, the State and the Ministry. If there is something that deprives the inhabitants of a right of appeal, it is to cut the budget of the county, which is to ensure that legal certainty is guaranteed for those who complain about services exercised either by municipalities, county councils, child protection – or what it should be. How does this hang together with the Right's focus on the state of law in Norway, I don't know. It is possible that the representative Höie will inform us about this. Then there are two specific issues that the representative had to deal with. The only thing is a passport, which I've been busy with, and which we've discussed before. The test arrangements with extended opening time in Bergen have been permanent. One has expanded its opening time in the summer. They have an open hour longer, unlike many others who have shorter opening hours in the summer. One's open till noon. 17 on Thursdays, plus that more out-of-office lights up the pressure, and it encourages more happy users. After all, we're not going to fit every week, so this has been a good offer. When it comes to the opening hours of the traffic stations, which is another area that we have discussed a lot, the most important thing is to cut the closures of the traffic stations. Under the previous government, there was a proposal for a comprehensive closure of many traffic stations. This meant that people had to travel much longer in order to carry out their honour – they would not experience the flexibility of being close to the services – as well as focusing on the opening hours of the traffic stations that were held together.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e853	Public sector issues often highlight the lines of division between the right and red-green parties. Already based on issues related to the size of the public sector, we see clear differences. The Workers' Party wants a strong public sector to solve the welfare tasks through a layer of tax paper. The right often makes itself a spokesman for lower taxes and more use of tenders, outsourcing and privatisation, whether in the case of elderly care, school or road construction. The party was even formed as a party for a strong reduction of taxes, taxes and public intervention. The interpellant is dissatisfied that the Government’s renewal strategy does not contain any concrete measurable criteria for success. Our aim is for the public sector to provide citizens with good services, freedom of choice and right of consultation. Services in the public sector shall be developed for the benefit of the citizens. The public sector shall be able to take care of quality, availability, fairness and economic efficiency. Active dialogue and user surveys shall ensure that the services provided by the public are adapted to the needs of the individual and developed with the users. The reason why, for example: municipalities are responsible for the welfare services, our confidence is that they are best able to adapt to the needs of the community. Therefore, our basis for public sector renewal is more local freedom and less detailed management. In the past, the Storting has dealt with a proposal from, among others: the interpellant Höie, which had the aim of achieving better opening times in the public sector. The majority was the time now devoted to the provision of good services by the public sector and the availability of good services. The opening hours had to be adapted to the work and family life of the day. There was no disagreement here. The majority, on the other hand, were clear that it would be wrong for the Storting to set the opening times that would apply to the whole country, simply because the opening time needs vary from sector to sector and for different parts of the country, as the Council of State just made clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e864	I'm glad that, with his interpellation, the representative Höie is focusing on missing innovation in the public sector. In previous articles, I pointed out that it is particularly important that public administration be made as simple and cost-effective as possible. After the view of the Progress Party, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration must be the main engine of this work. The Progress Party believes that it should be an overarching goal to reduce and streamline public bureaucracy, thus making central authorities more transparent for the individual citizen. This would increase the individual’s ability to influence and not least reduce public spending. We have heard several times from the government council Heidi Grande Røys that both she and the government are busy modernizing the public sector. I must nevertheless, in the same way as the representative Höie, point out that when it really comes to modernising public sector service production and focusing on making demands on public services, we see little will at the Council of State and the Government to really do something about it. The representative, Höie, is calling for the objectives of the Council of State and the Government in their work in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. In the Progress Party, too, we are very disappointed with the Government's public sector renewal strategy, which was put forward on 4 October 2007, two years after the government's accession. The government has not been able to spell out or specify its objectives. Instead, they use about 30 pages of formulations such as ‘the public sector to lead’, and that they are more likely to facilitate different good purposes. The Progress Party will indicate that the Government in 2008 will benefit 20 million. kr trying to reduce working time in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. This shows a great deal after the Progress Party's view of the Government's lack of commitment to the modernisation of the public sector. The Council of State's clipping of the Competition Authority is largely the only thing she's noticed in the public room. The representative, Höie, says that he suspects that the Council of State has taken its party culture into the process of renewing the public sector. Yes, I believe that the representative Höie is quite right. The socialist parties, now also part of the Center Party, are interested in building up a large public sector to acquire power, because through trade and red-green relations they defend each other. For these, it is more important to have a large public sector than to take care of the tasks that are waiting around the country. What we've heard and seen in the Kongsberg media is a brilliant example of how this turns out in practice. Here, socialists have had power in a human age. The results of the services, as we have seen on the TV screen lately, care very little about them as they are in the positions, before they are produced through the media in such a embarrassing situation that they do not dare anything but to correct errors. I can take another example, from my own state, Sogn and Fjordane, which for a long time have been guided by philosophical-socialist ideas. Socialism is, in my view, philosophy that can be used well in festivities, but which is not very common in today's real value. By that I mean that this control method leads to pacification and zero growth. The result is that more and more Smudge the light of Sogn and Fjordane and move from the state. We need a public sector and local politicians who are results-oriented, so that people can get back to the threat that it is possible to get services in the future without having to pack the bag and go to Oslo. After the Progress Party's view, the Council of State Heidi Grande Røys will not be able to reform the public sector. The reason is that it will not benefit from the competitive element. Consequently, this department is managed by the passivity method and not by the renewal method. The party of progress thinks it must and should be a central goal to reduce the public sector where there are no particular good reasons to keep it. The party of progress sees the growing bureaucracy as a threat to democracy, because of the growing intransigence of government. We in the Progress Party are of the opinion that the public sector needs to make much more use of tools such as supply, privatisation and competitive stimulation, and that there are specific reasons for not applying these principles and instruments to the public sector. Then, and only then, one can achieve the result that, after the Progress Party's vision, must be the basis for creating a proprietary Renewal and Administration Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e902	I'm not going to repeat Bent Höie's three main reasons that modernisation and conversion of the state should have been the first priority for the Council of State, but just pay attention to saying that of course I fully support his argument. In the right we do not let go of the ceiling in the modernisation of the public sector. It's not just necessary, it's a prerequisite if we're going to be able to solve all the welfare issues that the population demands in the future. Whatever the Council of State says, the renewal strategy — a strong and efficient public sector — contains virtually only general formulations, no concrete measurable criteria for success. So where does the road go, and what roads should we take? Unfortunately, all concrete answers are missing. 279 small and large measures, says the Council of State. Strangely, they've made so little progress, I think, that we don't know anything more about them. One door, we actually had it in Skien long before the red-green government took hold, so the NAV reform has a history. The government is involved in the process and cooperates with the employees. For me, good cooperation and good relations are the basis, but not the goal in itself. For the Right, the objective is to implement measures to the benefit of the citizens and to the benefit of a future sustainable welfare society. Then we have to have the will and be so powerful that we can turn resources from bureaucracy to well-being, from paper transfer to care and education. In this article, I would particularly like to take on board a very central instrument: freedom of choice. The red-green government has vetoed competition and free user choice. In many municipalities, the government parties unfortunately take the same position. In practice, the left-hand side of Norwegian policy is decomposing the free choice of citizens and the different user choice mechanisms that exist. We have today a government that will not give the individual user the opportunity to choose, and that will not give the inhabitants real freedom of choice. Understand the one who can. For me, it's actually impossible to understand. Instead of letting everyone living in the municipality get the best offer and freedom of choice to choose what type of offer they want, the government will let the government decide. In fact, the quality of the work becomes all the more important when it comes to public decision-making and authority-making. Unfortunately, the Government is not happy with the tender either, and competitive outsourcing is also a lead. In my view, this is actually serious, because where are the possibilities to ensure that citizens get the best services, the best opportunities and the best offers? In what way can the public be confident that they are far enough? My answer is that the public alone does not do this well enough. Tenders are healthy for a municipality. It helps the municipality to become aware of what it wants, and what quality it will give its citizens. Competitive outsourcing is not the goal of what we do, but one of several instruments to offer the municipality's citizens freedom of choice. So a little bit about opening hours. Public sector opening hours have been raised on several occasions during this period, both in the form of proposals and in the case of questions, but it has obviously not made any particular impression on either the Council of State or the Government. In my opinion, there is something that says about the Government's real will for user-friendliness.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e921	The representative Bent Höie has taken the initiative for an important debate, a debate on the Government’s strategy for the renewal of the public sector. The very word strategy comes from Greek «strategos», meaning «general art» or «large warfare». That's an offensive word. Strategy was used for major, comprehensive military operations. Today it's not so dramatic. We use the concept of long-term planning in general, especially when it comes to plans to achieve certain objectives. Strategy to achieve objectives must be concrete plans for how to achieve these objectives. It is easy to agree with the objectives set by the Government. The Christian People's Party supports the ambitions of a strong and effective public sector to ensure well-being, and we believe that the Government has a good intention of providing good services, freedom of choice and participation to its citizens. But the document itself, ‘The Government’s strategy for the renewal of the public sector’, is primarily about the ambitions or objectives, the objectives that we all agree on, namely good public services. Unfortunately, the measures in the strategy become very general, and one may wonder what is new in the Government’s document. The Christian People's Party agrees that an improved municipal economy is an important prerequisite for good welfare services, and the Christian People's Party is positive that the Government continued to escalate the municipal economy that started under Bondevik II. Now it seems that the escalation has stopped. Many municipalities report that next year there will be a status quo or a decline in the municipalities' economic space for action. It will have implications for the quality of welfare services. The public sector needs access to labour in order to achieve its objectives. That will be the main challenge in the years to come. Competitive labour is needed to ensure full child-care coverage and quality in school. Several older people lead to a greater need for care services. A strategy for the renewal and improvement of the public sector must have comprehensive and concrete proposals to address that challenge. It is right, as the representative Höie said in his statement, that there will be strong competition between the public and private sectors for labour. In this respect, a renewal policy must be that public sector jobs must become attractive in terms of pay and working conditions. It is also about the fact that, overall, we need more labour in the country. The measures in the Government’s strategy become too puzzled. It is simply not consistent with measures such as a two-year moderate-quota trial for people with a migrant background in government administration. It is a good measure — it is not — but it is too small in the large welfare services that more people work with a migrant background in the bureaucracy in the departments and departments. The renewal of the public sector must involve the recruitment of more applicants with a migrant background by all public agencies. The Christian People's Party believes that one must take greater action, such as. increased labour migration and increased incentives to work rather than early retirement. The government hesitates too much when it comes to labour immigration. Here, the Minister of Renewal and the Minister of Inclusion should look once again at good proposals that have come from the opposition. We need a Minister of Renewal who dares to take exciting action to ensure the availability of skilled labour to the public sector. Is the Council willing to use community services in the care sector as an alternative to the general duty of protection for Norwegian boys and girls? Does the Government pass a test of work permit for five years after completion of training for foreign students in Norway? And is the Government willing to bet on full Norwegian training for all labour immigrants? It is good that the government has presented a plan for recruiting people with disabilities where one wants to achieve that 5 pst. of all newly recruited persons in the country, shall be disabled persons. But it has to happen more. Too many people are out of work. We have to look at the reasons. Much of the reason for long-term sick leave and disability in the health and care sector is that employees have too much pace and pressure in their work. We need to do something about the working conditions in the care sector if there is to be skilled labour and good services. Finally, it is important that public information and public services are available to the population. Therefore it is important to have universal design and flexible opening times. It doesn't have to mean extended opening times, but flexible opening times. What's important is that we have 24-hour hospitals and hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e944	I would like to thank Right-Høie for bringing up a theme that is important to all the inhabitants of the country. I also want to highlight other areas of modernisation that it is important for the Government to continue to work on and do something about them. In 1994 the Storting adopted a new management system for the State Road Administration, such as: meant separating the Road Service’s own production as a separate internal department. Furthermore, in order to demonstrate competitiveness, the Vegvesenet was required to establish its own accounts for the production department, which would be as comparable as possible to accounts for private enterprises, which today's government parties were very skeptical until then, but which we now see has been a success. The State and the municipalities are among the largest producers of services in Norway. Therefore, it is essential that the State and the municipalities manage resources in a socially efficient way. When we see how some municipalities north of us use the funds in American funds, with the big, big risk it has, I don't think it's a socially effective way to place the funds on. It is important that the efficiency potential of the country's second largest service provider, i.e. the municipalities and the state, is removed so that more money is provided. In any case, it is important that organisational solutions provide accounts that demonstrate the efficiency and competitiveness of businesses, so that the relationship between private and public activities can also be assessed. During a consultation in the municipal and management committee with the private kindergartens, we received signals that it should be ensured that guidelines for municipal accounting are as detailed as for private accounting throughout the nursery sector. It is essential that it is possible to calculate costs across the sector, in order to achieve fairness and equal treatment across the kindergarten sector. The different framework conditions applicable to public and private activities are a problem in assessing competitiveness. An overall objective of the Government must be to maximise the socio-economic exploitation of the total resources, i.e. more service for the money. It turns out that there are several framework conditions that differ for the private and public sectors. The main difference is that the State can have a triple function such as management company, authority order and production company at the same time. The private have basically just one function. It is felt as a role conflict that the state has a triple role – authority, order and producer – in the same organisational structure many times. The state does not deal with fluctuations in the market, but leaves all fluctuations to the private. This has consequences for the competitive part of the market. If the competitiveness of the State is to be compared to enterprises with completely different framework conditions, it will give a distorted picture. As long as the triple role is maintained, the State cannot demonstrate its competitiveness. Another weakness of today's system is that there are no rules on what will be the consequence of the failure of the State and the municipalities to meet the objective of competitiveness in relation to the private sector. There are not many carrots to promote efficiency in the country and municipality if there is no better efficiency compared to private ones. The fact that the Government takes radical action and that the State’s competitiveness in relation to private activities needs to be demonstrated satisfactorily must be an objective. The only real possibility for public production to be comparable to similar private activities is to give them almost a level playing field. By making special arrangements, simulating similar accounting systems, etc. At best one will only achieve theoretical competitiveness. This is where radical action must be taken. The state must be given greater impetus to the modernisation of the public sector. And then one should also consider the municipalities as an important element.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e965	We have a government council that's good at talking, not least about action plans. However, it is true that any renewal strategy in the public sector must also be seen in the context of the need for labour in the private sector. That's what's called social economy. So instead of considering today's labour shortage as a problem, the government should see the opportunity that lies in this historically unique state of Norwegian working life. The need for private-sector labour should be a loving opportunity to make major structural changes in general government. Just as the left-hand side saw growth in the public sector as a means of remedying unemployment in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, so the government today should use the shortage of private sector labour to rationalise and red tape the public sector. Unfortunately, we feel that the opposite is the case: we are getting more and more employees in the public administration. Then we don't talk about help nurses, with whom the Council of State has previously argued. We're talking about several employees in public administration to manage 4.5 million. human beings. The consequence is that more and more people employed in the private sector need to finance more and more people employed in the public sector. This is a development that we politicians have a collective responsibility to reverse, but it chooses the Government to entrust to future governments. Because that's going to happen. It's going to have to happen. However, the private sector, in recent years, has used the labour shortage to make large-scale slimming and rationalisation of its own businesses. Companies have made large investments in new technologies, in automation, which has reduced the need for more employees. It is simply because the private sector has a bottom line to deal with. They will make money, while the public administration will spend a budget. It's an opposite logic. The consequences of these processes have been that private enterprises have experienced increasingly better profit margins, higher returns and better wages, yes, just wages, which some people had in place. The fact that the public sector has not had the same incentives to make similar changes has led to a growing number of new jobs. These are tasks that, in isolation, seem sensible for each new public sector action – I myself have been working there for many, many years. They are sensible, but in the broad socio-economic context, it is totally unreasonable to do so much on the public side. We have to be willing to say that there is something that the public actually shouldn't do. There's something we shouldn't do. It's a service we shouldn't give. That's something we don't have to do. We're going to have to dry that. The public sector will have to go through major changes in the coming years, and there will have to be mergers of businesses, the winding-up of services, which I have been in, and more consistent use of private service providers. The Progress Party has always presented alternative government budgets with cuts in general government. This is what we are combining with increased investment budgets to promote economic growth. That's what the logic of our budget is. The Central Statistical Agency said about our alternative budget for the current year was that it would result in less pressure on interest rates and lower inflation, 0.4 pst. lower inflation. Then the Central Statistical Office also says that cuts in general government give double profits, because not only do we not pay a salary in general government, but we also get freed labour for private activities, which will generate income to the government in the long term. There is a double gain by getting one out of government and over in private activities. Then the council must not come here and talk about home helpers. We're talking about public administration -- public administration. In fact, there is no political need to use more and more tax credits to make more and more dependence on public transfers and welfare schemes. It's not political. Anyone can do that, and there's nothing to brag about. There is much more respect for politicians who dare to take the necessary steps to ensure that the private sector can create the values that we all, including the Council of State and all of us who work in the public sector, depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e983	It is important to develop efficient service management. Therefore, it is also important to reap from the experience gained, for example: from the experiments of the previous government on the transport sector. Of course, the intention of the conversions carried out in the previous period was to save money and to reduce public institutions. But questions were never asked about the quality of services and services in this context. When I now hear Ib Thomsen boasting himself and the previous government for the closure of the Vegvesen manufacturing business, I had at least expected the representative Thomsen to ask himself the question: What was achieved with this closure? What was achieved with the formation of the company Mesta? Has competition in the market improved in particular, and could it be that some of the foreseeable cost increase experienced in the transport sector is due to the fact that there is no longer a public production activity capable of dampening the pressure in the private sector? Is it true that road maintenance has improved since this operation? The answer everyone knows: No! All studies show that it has become worse. It has become worse as a result of the reorganisation of the Road Administration’s production activities. What else has happened? Well, what's happened is that the skills you had in this field are gradually becoming confused, so that today you just sit and manage contracts. In other words, there have been more to manage, more to control, and rigid ordering systems have been put in place. Now we even see that the same batches are set up to set up a separate road traffic control system to supervise the supervisory authority. It is clear that the result of this is only more bureaucracy, more administration and less done. The order-executive role of the previous government, which has now ridden the public sector as a mare, has only led to more bureaucracy, more administration and higher public costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e994	I'll answer the previous article with two points. The first is that if the current government agrees with Gullvåg’s analysis — something that most others do not agree with, and most analyses show that he is wrong — an immediate reversal of what the previous government did in this area should be made. We've seen a little bit of that. Secondly, in terms of quality, I've registered that Gullvåg has a certain commitment to orbit. Will he then ask the users of the Gjøvik Railway whether they are satisfied or not satisfied with the quality of the offer after it was put on the market? What I want to say in summary is that if one is concerned about preserving the Norwegian welfare society, and I think that most parties are, one should look at the paradox that in any government in the last 20 years in Norway any government has been able to respond to any attack from the opposition, whether it has been red or blue, that the offer has become better than last year, and that the offer has become better than under the previous government. Any government council in this government could say that, and any government council in the previous government could say that. But the people’s perception of the offer has not followed the same trend. What's the reason for that? I believe that a significant part of the reason for this is part of what the representative Tybring-Gjedde had in mind, namely that every year all the inhabitants of this country have experienced that the offer they receive in the private sector has become radically much better, even though the price has not gone up. Yeah, maybe in many cases it's gone down. One feels that the solutions that previously took a long time in the private sector, which did not necessarily have the best quality, are suddenly available here and now, and at a better price than before. It should concern a State Council which has overall responsibility for the public services in that country, not least in view of what it has to learn from the private sector. I believe that when each of us knows that resolving a problem by means of private service providers is solved very quickly, while problems you have in relation to the public, take a long time – and if they continue – it will weaken people's upswing about the Norwegian welfare society. This means that more and more people today, under a red-green government, buy private hospital services, and that more and more people today, under a red-green government, buy private care services, precisely because they are not satisfied with the public. I had thought that this government was actually busy meeting that challenge, but obviously they are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1005	What this interpellation has at least shown is that there is still a very big difference in the view of the public sector between the bourgeois parties Right and the Progress Party and the government as it is today. That's to the extent that we're okay. That's why we've put forward a renewal strategy that differs significantly from Morten Meyer and Victor Norman's curve jumps when it comes to public and state administration in the previous period. Kari Lise Holmberg said that we had to turn resources from bureaucracy to well-being. Yeah, we run that every day. But was it the Right Movement in the previous period? We can ask questions about that. Because what we got in the previous period, more people were out of work. People dropped out of retirement before. Early retirement was used as an instrument in some of the changes in the state sector. We were down at a retirement age of about 58 years, but he's luckily on his way up again. We got an increase in disability, a rise in people at rehab and in rehabilitation. Of course, we got more unemployed. But it's not just right to take responsibility for it. It was also due to a cyclical situation. But, at all, right's way of transforming the public sector, people got out of work. That's not how we can use our resources. This government has a completely different policy in that area. So, for the postponing of welfare services. Why? You must do these welfare services. Whether there is a public added help care facility, or if there is a private added help facility, then the service provision needs to be done, and we need to be busy for the quality of service provision. We believe that the only way to ensure that everyone in this country, as well as every cage, whatever content one has in the wallet, is to have equivalent services, is that the public has to take responsibility, because it's only the public who have equal treatment and justice as superior goals, and who not least base their rule of law, so that one can also complain. The cuts that the Right Party and the Progress Party are now making primarily on the promises of the statesmen in their alternative budgets are a serious attack on what I would call the state of law Norway. It is the county councillors who supervise child protection institutions, health services around municipalities, and health services in hospitals. Cutting off the vows of the statesmen is cutting the number of supervision to ensure that all citizens in that country are given the welfare they are to have and receive the appeals they are to receive. I can't believe that one of you stands here with freeness of speech, in Stortinget's pulpit, and is proud to cut into that bureaucracy. Bjørg Tørresdal was busy getting our immigrants to work. I am the heart's agreement with Bjørg Tørresdal in it. Therefore, this government has a solid commitment to Norwegian training while the previous government cut it. If you can't Norwegian, you can't get a job. It is with Norwegian training, with quotas for immigrants in the state sector, getting them into work, giving them their first job, it is the best way to contribute to both increasing the workforce and, of course, reducing the unemployment rate among our immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1016	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1034	It is a trend across Europe that cocaine use is increasing. This is also noted in Norway and is very worrying. It is therefore important to highlight this major challenge, which I believe should be addressed by a number of actions in many areas. Despite the fact that action will be required in different sectors, I believe that it is the Minister of Health who is responsible for seeing the whole picture. Among other things, we have media have come to know about Operation White Snow, which is a great initiative, and which is just being addressed by this problem, namely the outdoors and use of cocaine there. The Oslo police consider use to be alarming and sales and use to be severely reduced. The police point out that many cocaine users are profiled people, know-how, and they are role models. This does not make cocaine less dangerous, but many people may be tricked into thinking it's okay. Many suggest that this is very common in the nightlife industry, as the NHO Travel Life confirms. Cocaine is probably much more widespread and accepted than most people know. All studies indicate that cannabis resin is the most commonly used substance. And it's important that we don't forget it. According to the Student Survey in Oslo, use has increased. This year’s previous report from Bergen shows that cocaine is the third largest drug in the city after alcohol and cannabis. The same report shows that the misuse of Subutex is increasing, and that increased access to cannabis has been recorded. There has been a slight decrease in the availability of heroin. And young adults are the big group. Due to the high price, people with high resources use cocaine in particular. These are usually between the age of 20 and 30. For young adults, the proportion that has ever used amphetamines, cocaine and ecstasy is highest in the 25–34 age group. These also do not constitute a group that defines itself as drug addicts. These trends are important to take seriously, and it is important to take action. The number of seizures of cocaine is increasing, confirming the increasing level of abuse. A customs officer describes it as daunting to see how much drugs are being smuggled into the country — and has not seen such conditions before. Last year, Oslo police seized 708 seizures, and the Tollvesen have seized twice as much cocaine in the first six months of this year as in the first six months of last year. In 2006, cocaine accounted for 2.6 pst. of the total seizures of drugs. Measurement of user doses in the sewerage in Oslo also suggests that 8,000 user doses are taken daily — and there is a lot! Stakeholder organisations such as the Landsförbundet Against Substance Abuse have experienced increasing calls to the support phone for the recent use of cocaine. In terms of the health consequences of use, cocaine is linked to being an stimulant. It's a strong addictive substance. Coca leaves are widely grown in South America. Cocaine can either be snorted, injected or smoked. Small doses give a feeling of being on top and having increased energy. The need for hunger and sleep is suppressed. The greater the dose, the stronger these effects become. On the other hand, addicts may behave strangely and violently. Life-threatening conditions with high heart rate, high blood pressure, heart rhythm disturbances, myocardial infarction and cerebral haemorrhage may occur, as well as convulsions and increased body temperature. You can also have anxiety attacks and become irritable. Repeated use may lead to psychological adverse reactions such as insomnia, anxiety and hyperactivity. Cocaine, as I mentioned, is highly addictive, and there is less tolerance development for cocaine than for example. for opioids such as morphine and heroin, i.e. that the dose does not need to be increased to such an extent in order to achieve the same effect. However, some may develop increased sensitivity, i.e. that they still tolerate less before they have effects such as anxiety attacks. Alcohol, opioids or sedatives are often used to mitigate the unpleasant effects of cocaine. So you get into a negative development. There is also a high risk of developing polydrug use and dependence. Unlike heroin, there is no antidote, drugs, to cocaine, but different therapies can relieve symptoms and help with weaning. We have the knowledge we need to know that something has to be done. Different measures need to be taken to detect use in the past. These may be new tests to reveal use in places where it is suspected to be used. AKAN, the Centre for the Expertise of Drugs and Addiction, must be involved in the consulting, brokering and other sectors of many young employees and high-income groups. There has to be a greater risk of being taken as a user. There must be further prevention campaigns, I believe. Many people do not know the consequences of possessing such substances. We have examples that financial brokers who have been taken for cocaine use have serious problems when they later go to the United States. Students and consultants lose educational and job opportunities because they are taken for possession of one user dose. Narcotics must also be out of the service industry. Therefore, in order to reduce cocaine use, it is necessary to cooperate with the donor industry. Other measures include police screening in locations where use is detected. I believe that outpatients must be closed where drug abuse is repeatedly detected. Parental follow-up is also very important. In many settings, parents’ presence and understanding of what their children are doing are called for. It's claimed that a lot of parents are easy-to-read. The police are moving out every weekend to home alone parties. At parties it is not uncommon to snort cocaine or smoke hashish. Leader of the Bærum Youth Service calls for parents and urges them to set clearer boundaries for their children. Low parental control combined with liberal values and plenty of money are factors that probably explain that Oslo West has a generally high consumption of drugs. It could be interesting to assess whether specific measures should be targeted at this part of Oslo and other areas falling under the same definition, given that cocaine use is found to be more widespread in these areas compared to other areas of the country. Cocaine use appears to follow the same pattern as elsewhere: the drug is introduced into central and trend-setting groups to reach socially vulnerable groups. Parents need to learn more about the fact that liberal intoxications are not good for their children, for the neighbor’s children or, for that matter, for other friends. As far as border control is concerned, an important measure will be to use more mobile scanners than – as I know – the two existing today. These take larger batches with seizures than before, and they have had a good effect so far. Mobile scanners will reduce the need for manual scanning, and it will also be able to release human resources. These freed resources can be deployed for more surveillance and intelligence, and possibly for more samples and controls. Another measure could be to provide key informants in different settings to facilitate the capture of changes in our country’s rusty lanes. Finally, new treatment services. As cocaine use cannot be treated drugically, there will be an increasing need for non-drug treatment in the years to come. Competence building will also be important, as these are new groups that are not traditional drug addicts. I am excited about the Council of State's response – also comments on the proposals I have tried to outline – and also whether the Council of State has other, and perhaps better, measures that she might consider in the run-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1071	It is very worrying that the use and availability of cocaine and other stimulants appear to be increasing. The evolution is the same in large parts of the world. This is well documented in the annual reports of the United Nations and the EU Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in Norway. In some areas, cocaine in particular is involved, in others, in different amphetamine substances. However, the use of ecstasy appears to be decreasing. As is known, amphetamine use increased sharply in Norway in the 1990s and has subsequently remained at a relatively stable level. About 4 pst. Among young people aged 15–20 years, they report having used this drug. Cocaine had no particular place in the Norwegian market in the early 1990s, despite the high level of attention given to the drug in the press and in its prevention context. One reason that cocaine was not prevalent at that time may be that amphetamine was an established drug in the drug market in the 1990s. In recent years, as the interpellant also points out, we have seen clear signs of an increase in cocaine use, particularly among young adults with a good economy. A study by SIRUS on the use of drugs in the age group aged 21–30 shows that more and more young people report having used cocaine. In 1998, 3 pst. They asked that they had tried cocaine. In 2006, it increased to 8.6 pst. Oslo tops the statistics. Here it was 7.4 pst in 1998 and 13.6 pst. in 2006, who had tried cocaine in this age group. We see the same trend in cocaine seizures by police and customs. In the first six months of this year, the number of cocaine seizures increased in the country’s police district. The amount seized is also higher in the first half of this year than it has been in the past. In addition, this year more amphetamine and methamphetamine than cannabis have been seized for the first time. By means of random analysis of wastewater, we can estimate, as the interpellant pointed out, that 10–15 doses of cocaine are used per 1 000 inhabitants of Oslo per 1 000 population. 24 hours. This is a new way of measuring the prevalence of drugs in society, which can in the long run complement traditional self-reporting. While cocaine use appears to increase, as noted, the use of other stimulant drugs remains stable and within the range we have seen over a long period of time. It may appear that methamphetamine, which is a more potent drug than regular amphetamines, is entering the Norwegian market. This trend, plus an increase in cocaine use, is frightening — not least because of the risk of rapid recovery. If this becomes a pattern that confirms itself, we will have a new type of addiction and new treatment needs. It is clear from the Patient Rights Act that all those referred to the specialist healthcare system should receive an individual assessment of their treatment needs. This means that the specialist healthcare system should at all times adapt to the needs of patients for treatment. The action plan for the drug field was, as you know, presented with proposals for the 2008 government budget. In this plan, the Government announces several measures related to increased use of cocaine in the population. I quote: ‘There is reason to fear that consumption of stimulants will increase in the years to come, international and Norwegian evidence shows that the use of stimulants is increasing among younger users. [[...]] [[...]] There is a need for more systematic knowledge of changes in the pattern of use and of effective prevention and treatment measures.’ In the plan, we write that we should increase efforts towards the use of stimulants, such as amphetamines and cocaine, and systematise knowledge and develop new interventions and forms of treatment. On behalf of us in the ministry, the Social and Health Directorate is planning a consultation on the situation regarding the use of stimulants and the need for the action. This consultation shall be held in the first half of next year and all key actors in the drug field will be invited. Prevention of drug abuse is a priority. Sickness about the use of a particular drug is increasing, it is also important to keep up with general prevention efforts, as I feel that the interpellant is also concerned about, i.e. the need to focus attention and efforts on drug abuse in general and not on one particular drug alone. If the emphasis is placed on preventing the use of one drug, we may risk shifting the use from one drug to another. Prevention of drug abuse must also be seen from a public health perspective. It is not useful, as I see it, to initiate individual projects if they are not integrated into a comprehensive policy in this area. In recent years, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has carried out the regional project — a cooperation between several municipalities and regions to ensure good and coordinated prevention of drug use across municipal borders. Experience and knowledge from this project will be disseminated to other municipalities and voluntary actors, and we will do more of what works. I think it is important to see alcohol, drugs and tobacco use in a context. Children and young people who opt out of tobacco and who defer the onset of alcohol are likely to say no to the use of drugs. Prevention must therefore have a very long-term perspective, while meeting the new challenges that are constantly coming, such as: Cocaine use, which is currently under debate. We're still going to have a drug policy that's targeting the entire population. At the same time, I believe that we need to pursue targeted prevention tailored to gender, minority groups and particularly vulnerable groups, in particular children and young people. We need to get a better knowledge of how to get rid of children and young people who need help early, and make sure that such help is actually there. The Social and Health Directorate is now working on a strategy to get in early on identification and intervention. Last week, together with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, I marked the beginning of a long-term effort on responses for children and young people who have parents with mental and/or drug problems. The store has granted 29 million. kr for this work for the current year and, as you know, the Government has proposed an increase of 5 million. kr for 2008. Among the measures taken in this effort, I can mention that we believe that regional child protection needs to be strengthened. We hope that the waiting time guarantee for children and young people under the age of 23 who are struggling with mental and/or drug problems will be adopted. We also want to make a guide on how these services can help the children we are talking about in the best possible way. We believe that the drug problem cannot be solved nationally alone. We need a policy that also takes account of international efforts to stop the production and trafficking of drugs. This has been taken into account in the escalating plan for the drug field. We will review and evaluate all measures that can contribute to the cultivation, production, introduction, trafficking and use of minor drugs. A working group to look at what measures, most likely, restrict the availability and use of drugs, are also working on this. There is also reason to believe that increased access to drugs and lower prices lead to increased use of drugs. We propose to strengthen the fight against illicit drugs both nationally and internationally. Among other things, we need to target police and customs efforts to prevent the production, introduction and trafficking of drugs. Combating drug crime is a priority task for the Ministry of Justice and Police. The police plan places great emphasis on prevention and response to the user environment. An important objective is to prevent the new recruitment of young people to the addictive settings. In addition, the police are getting knowledge of serious drug crime through this work. And I'm informed that a significant effort is being directed at the back in environments that distribute and trade drugs. Such crime is part of international organised crime, and is therefore a high priority on the part of the police. In autumn, the Oslo Police have strengthened their efforts to combat the introduction, trafficking and abuse of cocaine. The increase in cocaine seizures is a major reason for this. There is also work to influence the attitudes of the population towards this type of drug, and the interpellant was involved in Operation White Snow, which is a cooperation between the Oslo Police, the Kripos, the Customs Department and other police districts, just to reduce the introduction, trafficking and abuse of cocaine in the capital. There is also a strong emphasis on cooperation with the nightlife industry to combat drug crime, which was also addressed by the interpellant. There are already many cases after Operation White Snow was started. The police are also taking information measures in newspapers and other media to keep people away from cocaine. Governments take the most seriously the challenges associated with cocaine and other stimulants. Intervention is essential as early as possible and before cocaine is concentrated in the Norwegian user settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1116	I will be allowed to thank the Council of State for a thorough and important feedback. I'm especially pleased that we share the great concerns, that the understanding of reality is alarming, as we see it. What is interesting is that the Council of States says that both the United Nations and the EU have warned and feel that this is very alarming. I would like to point out, as the Council of State was in its final statement, that this with international cooperation is extremely important. I think we need a lot in Norway, where we have little experience with cocaine use, to gain more experience from other countries. Among other things, we know that the United States has a major cocaine problem, but Sweden has also had this problem for a long time. The Council of State also says that, in particular, healthcare, i.e. specialist healthcare, needs to adapt to new needs. Of course it must. It is important that it also acquires the necessary skills and that it sees the needs of each patient. At the same time, in fact, these addicts will not be able to benefit from LAR treatment at all. LAR won't be an option for them at all. I think the more traditional treatment at drug-free institutional sites will be a better alternative. I am concerned that in Health South-East for a short time, a requirement specification was issued in its tender document where they included them. suggests a one-year restriction, which I think can be very short for these patient groups – but here we can gain a little more experience from other countries. In general, drug users say that one year is a very short treatment period if they have abused different drugs for a long, long time. Now I know that the Council of State has previously answered a question from a representative of big business, and it has been said that one year should not be set as a processing time. However, I am concerned that the signals have been sent out. I don't know if you're thinking that a few months more could be relevant, but many will need much, much more time. So the state council also mentions the ruplan. We have earlier said from this pulpit that the ruplan is very good. The problem with the plan is that the funds set aside in 2008 have been earmarked for a wide range of good actions. But this area, with so many problems, may require a faster effort than what has been set out in the plan, i.e. there is, of course, no order in the other measures. It is incredibly important to start this work immediately, so as to prevent negative developments and to prevent more people becoming addicts to cocaine.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1127	I fully agree with Mr Davøy that international cooperation is crucial. The experience of other countries with the new trend that is now coming to our country is a matter of great interest to the Government. I can mention that we have launched a number of multidisciplinary actions. It's announced in the escalating plan for the drug field in Stortinget. I can also say a little more about what the police are working on right now: they are working very closely with the nightlife business against closed environments where cocaine abuse is taking place. I also think it is good to inform the European Parliament that the annual report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction is being launched in Brussels on Thursday 22 November – in just two days. In this context, the Ministry of Health and Welfare will organise a meeting on trends in cocaine and other stimulants as early as tomorrow. All of this, in addition to the consultation that the Social and Health Directorate has been responsible for early next spring, will contribute to more knowledge of what is happening now, and – perhaps even more importantly – what we can do about it. In the case of Health South-East and the bidding rounds they are running, I would like to inform you that they have sent out clarifications concerning, inter alia, the matter. a limit of one year. I think that makes sense, because by having a bastant limit of one year, you won't be able to capture all the needs. We have also, as the representative understands for sure, had a meeting on this, and on the basis of that, there have been some clarifications that relate to both this and a few other things that it is essential to have a slightly softer approach. Through the system we have — including in the specialist health service — we have to try to catch people's different needs, and they are said to need help from it. With regard to the use of the money, we are waiting for the Stortinget to say. I'm busy trying to have both money and people to prevent even more -- it's very important -- then we have good enough and sufficient treatment, so that people get treatment when they need it and don't wait that long, and that it's very good follow-up when people get home home after finishing treatment in our system. All of this must be in order for us to succeed. I can assure the representative Davøy that I am very serious about the alarming developments in this area. We are taking action, but more will come. We have to have individual measures, but we also have to see everything we do, in a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1140	All of them first: Thanks to the interpellant. The increasing level of abuse related to cocaine and other drugs in recent years is a sign of illness — not least in a society that we would all prefer to see consisted of a healthy population, without a drug addiction problem. As I see it, it is a big problem that our children and young people are exposed to environments that do not want them well, rather on the contrary. An overall approach to these problems is therefore necessary. We all know that it's a cross-sectoral issue we're talking about. It has a health aspect related to poorer physical health and dependency. It has a psychosocial aspect, with the dimensions in it. There are problems related to each family that may be exposed to this, there are problems related to professions, child protection and education, and there are problems related to crime. For me, it is very important that we spend enough resources on the customs and police. It is often the case that, in the case of alcohol-related abuse, very much attention is focused on prevention measures. As far as drug abuse is concerned, I clearly lack a focus on the prevention aspect. Part of society must stop glorying its use of drugs. The description of amphetamines, cocaine, ecstasy or the like such as in-substances and fashion dope is isolated and itself trending for the growing youth. The same is true of cult cultivation of various types of know-how that abuse drugs. This has something to do with attitudes, attitudes that we have to change, so that the back of the medal of this kind of abuse better comes to light. As I see it — from a health perspective — drugs are far from being an in-substance, rather the opposite. Here we have to do something to change the role images and the ideals. Many of those in dependency have major psychosocial problems. In a treatment situation, we need to give priority to both mental health – which can be reasonably traumatic and complex – and to dependence as such. It is important to point out that society must be prepared to take responsibility, when the individual abuser is motivated for detoxification. That is not the case today. Here we have a formidable job to do. As I see it, it is quite pointless to have a treatment plan without a necessary and good follow-up – and without post-protection. It is therefore high time that we put in place an after protection that works, so that we do not get the high number of swing door spaces and period abusers. The goal must be to make everyone who comes to treatment, drug-free, although I know it's ambitious. Personal follow-up and individual plan have been neglected by the health care system for a number of years. This has to get into place. Ask the user what he thinks is right! You get your answer back: individual level and follow-up. There is also a great deal of crime with drugs. It's a crime that goes beyond the perpetrator, but what else does it not do to society, when so many people feel insecure? This leads us to the fact that the police and Customs have to have enough resources to fight this, both nationally and internationally. For a number of years, the Progress Party has wanted to strengthen police and customs forces with increased resources to combat illegal imports. If you mean something by that and you want to fight this, which I think everyone here is doing, it might have been an advantage to say yes to higher appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1157	I'll give honey to the interpellant because she addresses this question. What she addresses is undoubtedly a very important area, and it challenges us in several areas, not least in terms of prevention. It is the case, as some have pointed out, that these challenges are receiving too little attention today. It's worrying. Both the representative Davøy and the Council of State have described the extent of the problem. They have been very clear and clear on both effects and consequences, and they are, as the Council of State said, frightening. Unfortunately, it seems right that the use of cocaine and other stimulants is increasing. We know, as many people have said, that this is particularly popular in some environments. Cocaine has been known to be a white-collar substance, which is used to a greater extent by people who are well established in work and working life and who like to have a working family life as well. These are environments that are traditionally more difficult to monitor and fit into, and thus also control and sanction. A lot has been done in the last few years. The provision of medically assisted rehabilitation has increased, and low-threshold health services are being developed. Although there is still a long way to go before we can say pleasure, it has nevertheless happened very positively. However, the challenge in this context is that users of cocaine, amphetamines and similar substances are not caught by this type of treatment provision to the same extent as users of other illicit drugs. We know that many of today’s treatment services are primarily targeted at the heaviest and most ill drug users. In other words, the needs of the different groups are very different. As you can see, one of the major challenges ahead will be the development of treatment services that take account of different patterns of abuse and the different needs arising as a result of these. This means that we need to use different forms of treatment, different arrangements, and a wide variety of services and services is required. Another group of addicts that I fear may be a ticking bomb in this context are young people with alcohol problems. We know that this group is not caught up in today’s drug supply, precisely because today’s drug supply is mainly targeting illegal drugs and the sickest people, who have come very far in their abuse. Many of the younger ones in the risk zone drink heavily drunk during the weekends. They are pumped on the medic, sent home – and the next weekend is the same. Many of them do not necessarily need an institution space, but they may need help for their abuse and help to make a change in their life pattern. These individuals are also at risk from other drugs, such as alcohol and alcohol. cocaine. I am aware that the Bergen Clinics have offered Health West to establish a short-term clinic for detoxification, investigation and treatment, with the follow-up of young people under 23. Such an offer does not exist today. As I understand it, Health West has not responded to this, without me knowing the background for a lack of response. It might be interesting to hear if the Council has any information about it. The Health and Welfare Committee is currently examining Ot.prp. No 53 for 2006-2007 on waiting time guarantee for children and young people under 23 years of age with mental or drug dependence and adjustments following drug reform. But these problems on which the interpellant is based are not addressed and problematised here either. The right, therefore, believes that it is necessary to look at the whole spectrum of drug abuse, not just at the misuse of illicit drugs, but at the types of treatment required for the various problems. I agree with the representative, Mr Davøy, that the Ruplan is good. It contains a lot of good measures and intentions, but, as the scientific community has pointed out, the financial resources needed to take a boost that can contribute to drug treatment in general and perhaps in this area in particular. I am also pleased that those who have spoken have been involved in this with prevention. I think it is quite crucial and important, as the Council of State also said, in a long-term perspective. It is also important that we intervene as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1183	Although cocaine and stimulants are a very small part of the big picture of drug use, I think it is good that the interpellant raises the problem into the Storting. Of course, if the measurements from the sewer in Oslo were to be voting, there is reason to be very concerned about the injuries that individuals and their closest ones are being inflicted. And then there's an incredible challenge for the Norwegian health care system in the future, because, as the interpellant put it, what kind of treatment do we really have to offer? Research on stimulants is important, which we know very little about. It is important for us to meet these challenges. I would like to mention that the State Institute for Drug Research is a central player in this area to monitor the whole field, research in the field and also follow the international trends that the Council of State was in. Governments were also very concerned that we had to monitor the whole drug field, and not least the new trends we see in drug abuse, in order to get on the road as early as possible with interventions. There is a demanding field to follow. Nor is it the case that we need to shift all the focus to the new trends and the new drug use and forget what is actually the biggest drug abuse in Norway, namely the misuse of alcohol, which has also been common to many. Then I very much agree with Fredriksen's representative that here we must have an overall approach to the whole field, and that is, as I said, very demanding. Another thing I very much agree with Fredriksen, is about the names we use when talking about the field: fashion baptism, party baptism. It is clear that in this way, we are in favour of approving terms that are used by the addictive community itself. I think we should take care of that, because it creates attitudes that do not jeopardize the new drug use, and that is not what we do. We're going to be very careful about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1198	I would like to thank you for your commitment to this Chamber today. I think there have been many good posts. I very much agree with the last speaker on this concept. It's incredibly important, but it's extremely difficult. Neither do we control the media, where we see these big headlines. Perhaps you should have made a recommendation that way – you should know what to do when using such terms. I think it's a very interesting issue that Gunn Olsen's representative brings with it. In addition, I very much agree with this with research. There is little research into this in Norway, and I think a lot can be done this way too. Competence needs to be built up everywhere, and we also need experience and knowledge about the treatment models that are commonly used for the so-called ‘hostine’ comas. Can these treatment models also be effective for new users? We don't know that. But it'll be important to take a closer look at it. One field that I only affected so far in my first post is the relationship between drugs and mental disorders. I suspect that these substances are so strong that they are much more dangerous in terms of developing different serious mental disorders than those we have seen in the past — as they are stimulants and have a number of side effects. I also want to say something about LAR. We have to be very aware that it is important that we develop completely different models here. LAR cannot be used in these patients. We've been spending a lot of time on LAR in recent years, but we have to keep this in mind when we're working on these new groups. I also want to ask the State Council again whether she can comment on Health East, as they said in their tender document that they did not want institutions to be able to reserve themselves for receiving LAR patients. I think it is absolutely necessary that we have institutions that are completely drug-free and that they are allowed to continue with this offer. Now I know that it was also slightly modified, but I'm still worried that it's taken up. Finally, I think it is very interesting and positive with this open hearing – or conference – to be held in 2008, in the spring. I must admit that in the preparation of this interpellation I have personally made some suggestions for action that I think are very good, but that I have not sucked from my own chest; among other things. has given good input to many actions. I hope that both RIO, LMS and other organisations are invited, and that they will be heard, because they have a lot of good input into this important and difficult field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1215	First of all, I can confirm that for that hearing we are going to invite the RIO and everyone else who had to have both an interest in and an opinion on this, i.e. as broad as possible. Then the representative Sjøli and the question about the Bergen clinics etc. I have to check that and come back with a correct answer. To this end, with cocaine use, which unfortunately is increasing, I just want to say that it can give rise to a new type of addiction and new types of treatment needs. I think there have been a lot of interesting contributions and also suggestions in this debate that I have said to bring with me. However, the current situation is that there is no treatment provision specifically targeted at those who are dependent on stimulants. I also very much agree with the representative Olsen and others on the concept of drug use here, because cocaine users are often described as ‘resources’ and ‘successful’, that type of word. It is clear that it is a challenge in itself, but it is also a challenge for the treatment system, to be able to catch up and get the help that is needed. As far as I know, there are currently no proprietary medicinal products specifically approved for the treatment of cocaine dependence. There are some therapies and some medicines that can certainly relieve symptoms and help the user through weaning, but we don't have any medicines that are specifically approved for it. What we also see is that addiction develops rapidly, and that it is, often underestimates it. So information I mean is a very important keyword. What we also know about is that those who use cocaine, often also use alcohol, tranquilizers or other things to mitigate the unpleasant effects of cocaine. There is a significant risk of polydrug use and of becoming dependent on even more drugs — so it is much more dangerous than some seem to believe. What we also know is that quitting cocaine usually does not cause physical withdrawal symptoms. But then there's a very important point: the representative, Mr. Davøy, is that the psychological habit is often more important than the physical one, and when you end up with this, the psychological aspect of it is often very difficult. We also know that weaning after the misuse of stimulants often triggers depressions that can be perceived as absolute mental withdrawal symptoms, and that will at that stage also pose a risk of maritime murder. So it's very serious things we're talking about here. We also know a lot about the effect of amphetamines on the brain, heart, lungs and other organs. I also think there's a lot on the information page in relation to this. As I said, it is important that we both get more knowledge – which more representatives have been involved in – and that we use the measures that work. One of the things that we know works is to prevent better, there's increased knowledge and competence at all stages, it's to get in as early as possible, and it's also to be concentrated if there's more to it: Norwegian alcohol policy. It is not possible to say that a single person is involved in cocaine or drugs. You have to be concerned about alcohol, drugs and, for that matter, tobacco. We see that it can be connected for some reason. The government also believes that reduced availability is important when we talk about this. We need more surveys of risky alcohol use. We need more measures related to pro-mille driving, to mention a few examples. As we see it, we also need a much more stringent enforcement of the alcohol law. Then we also talk about sales and gift regulations, to mention something. All of this is hanging in the middle of nowhere. I see that the time is running out, so finally I would say, in the case of Health East and the tendering rules, the question of LAR is something that has also been clarified after meetings with us. I believe that there was a bit too rigid in relation to the current policy. I take with me the good suggestions that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1242	So the debate is on case No. Five over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1248	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1256	During the debate Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up an action plan for cleaning up the Mjösa and to present it to the Stortinget in 2008’.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote. The Committee had set up: Document No 8:109 [[2006-2007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1281	During the debate, Mr Engeset put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to instruct the Directorate of Nature Management to extend the general hunting hours of elk until 15 September to 23 December and for deer until 10 September to 23 December. Extended hunting time requires cohabitation. If the hunting option is closed for hunting other than elk hunting for longer periods during the deer hunt, the local authority shall be delegated the power to tighten up the hunting time of this hunting authority.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-20.ana.ud1600e1303	In Case No: 3–5 there is no voting theme.
