ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e22	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Central Party Group for the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen from 14 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox This application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be granted.2. The representative of the goods, Hilde Groenhovd, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e40	Hilde Groenhovd is present and will take the seat. The representative, Ms Søreide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e45	I have, on behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen, Elisabeth Aspaker, Kari Lise Holmberg, Øyvind Halleraker and myself, the joy of making proposals for the establishment of technology gymnasium.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e50	Jan Tore Sanner will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e53	On behalf of the local representative Lars Sponheim and myself, I would like to propose a conditional exemption from the inheritance fee for the inheritance of family property.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e58	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e61	On behalf of the representatives of Per Sandberg, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I have the pleasure of making proposals to set up a state-owned road company to facilitate the rapid development of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network based on state funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e66	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e86	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative Dagfinn Høybräten.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e95	I have the following questions for the Prime Minister: In recent days we have received alarming reports in Dagsrevyen on the situation of elderly people at Norwegian care institutions. Old people don't get to sleep at night because they have to share rooms with troubled co-patients in hospitals, and the threshold for getting sick homes is very high in many places. We saw Jenny yesterday, which is located in a trim room because, despite the fact that there are free rooms in the nursing home, there are not enough people. Understand who it is who wills! If these had been simple stories, they could have been solved locally, and there would have been nothing to address in the country's national assembly. However, on several occasions the State Health Authority has pointed out that there is a failure on important points in terms of quality and capacity in the care of the elderly. The county doctor in Oslo and Akershus has even called the care of the elderly a risk area. This shows the need for a cross-political obligating ageing plan involving progress and the economy. In Stortinget, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, we must agree on an ageing plan for the years to come that focuses on both content and quality, enough space, exclusiveness for all. In concrete terms, 20 000 additional space for dentures is needed. New construction and modernisation of 20 000 places in hospitals and nursing homes is needed until 2015. The daily services for the elderly have to be stepped up, especially when we know that only 4 pst. of the dentures living at home have a daily offer. Relieving treatment and care for the dying needs to be strengthened, and more knowledge and competence among care professionals is needed. Cultural services for the elderly must be given priority and the rights of the elderly must be strengthened by a guarantee of dignity. My question to the Prime Minister is: When and how will he follow up his election promise to take the initiative in a cross-political dialogue on such a commitment to the elderly of the country in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e108	Firstly, I would like to express the joy of the commitment of the representative Dagfinn Højbräten and the Christian People's Party in terms of the conditions of the elderly. A good and worthy old age and a good and safe care for the elderly are among the most important tasks the welfare society has to take care of and care for. Therefore, it is also unacceptable that we receive notifications of unworthy circumstances in the care of the elderly, and therefore it is important that we do more to strengthen the care of the elderly. The government is running. It is that we are now on track – yes, we are actually in front of the form regarding 10,000 new annual work in the care of the elderly, as we promised before the election. We'll probably achieve that goal before 2009, before we promise. We have put forward a government budget where we are now providing a state grant and a strengthened municipal economy, which enables us to build 12,000 new places within nursing homes and nursing homes for the elderly. The third thing we do is we strengthen our competence through education and training. Not least, we know that there are many thousands of unskilled people working in the care of the elderly, and we want to qualify them in continuing training so that they can become skilled workers. And the fourth thing we do is to be concerned with content -- the cultural walking stick, day care and that kind of thing. We have presented this plan in connection with the State budget. We hope that the Health and Welfare Committee in the Grand Duchy will be able to have a dialogue between the government parties and the opposition to see if it is possible to reach a broad consensus on the basis of what has been presented in the context of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e123	Let me first say that I am pleased with the Prime Minister's commitment to those parts of the elderly care that it does not yet shine off, and that is unfortunately a large part of our public offer. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister is now signalling a willingness in the care matters currently being dealt with by the Health and Welfare Committee in the context of the State Budget, a cross-party discussion to reach the broadest possible agreement on this. I would like to say on behalf of the Christian People's Party, that we are prepared for such discussions with a view to an agreement that enables older people, their relatives, those who work in the sector, and not least the municipalities to know that this is something that goes beyond a four-year period through changing political constellations. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he agrees that the rights of the elderly, their complaints and getting elderly agents in some form are important in order to ensure the rights of the elderly in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e132	The answer to that question is yes. The government is committed to strengthening the legal rights of the elderly. It is today rights related to both the Local Health and Social Health Act, but what we want is to coordinate the two laws and bring together the law, clarify it and give older people clearer rights than today. Among other things, the elderly have the right to necessary and sound care. We look at how the law can be strengthened, clarified and brought together. And the government has sent out to consult a proposal to extend the patient care system, so that it also applies to municipal health and social services, which is important for older people, among other things. in a nursing home. Those who feel that there is too little offer to the elderly can complain and should complain, and we now go through the law and see if it can be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e139	There will be four follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e142	It is nice to hear that the Prime Minister is willing to look at the possibility of reaching a broad settlement on an escalation in the care of the elderly. It's a very high time. In our office, Stortinget dealt with the care message in this room. Then it is very strange that the same government parties could not participate in an obliging escalation plan just to get something done with the care of the elderly. The Health and Welfare Committee is now dealing with three issues related to the care of the elderly: both skills development, guarantees of dignity and a number of measures on how to make these things work in the future. My question to the Prime Minister is this: When can we expect to see the possibility and wish from the government parties to make a settlement to get things in place? After all, the government would not be involved in an obliging escalation plan in connection with the care notification in our company.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e147	I would like to repeat that the government parties are prepared to have dialogue with the opposition parties to see if there is a basis for reaching agreement on the involvement of the elderly in the care of the elderly. Then you have to sit down in the committee that has those matters and see if it's close enough, and whether the political content of the positions of the various parties is such that you can reach agreement on compromises and settlements. I think the most important thing now is to start discussing the issues themselves and see how far you stand apart. The will is there. But now you have to solve the problem, that's to get a wide deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e153	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e156	In the spring – and everyone in this room knows it – there was a consensus that an obligating plan was to be made, and then the government parties drew on instructions from the government at last little before the setting was given. In the election campaign, the Prime Minister answered the challenge of Dagfinn Højbrätten if he was willing to sit down and make an obligating plan: Yes, I can confirm it. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: Has the government fraction, the government parties in Stortinget, been given greater powers to oblige the government in the years to come on a stepping-up plan for both quality, content and places in the care of the elderly than they had in ours? Because if they don't have more powers than they had in us, there won't be much left when we get so far that we'll sit down and talk. Has the Government changed its position? Will they now commit for the years to come in cooperation with others?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e161	We've done what we said we should do. Firstly, we have started stepping up care for the elderly. We have granted many billions more, which now brings thousands of new annual works in the care of the elderly and more places. Secondly, we have now presented to the Stortinget new measures in the context of the State budget, including: a government grant for the development of nursing homes and homes, proposals for skills and quality improvement in care for the elderly and for the first time also a dementia plan for how to do more to all the 80 psts. of those who are in a nursing home, who have dementia. Other measures include: as regards the rights of the elderly, they have now been consulted. So those proposals are in Stortinget, or are notified to Stortinget. I think it is unwise to negotiate in plenary in Stortinget during a Question Time. In order to see whether it is possible to reach an agreement, dialogue and, where appropriate, negotiations must be held within the Committee, if it is considered that there is a basis for reaching an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e168	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e171	The government is putting forward a lot of plans – the last one, as the Prime Minister just said, Demenplan 2015 – and the municipalities are putting forward a lot of plans. We're talking about wide settlements, and of course that's okay. But most people are asking for action, and they are asking for results. We've had horror stories in the last few days about the elderly in trim rooms, older with the Christmas stick in the storeroom. So my question to the Prime Minister is quite simple: is this the result of the Government's objective of an elderly care to shine?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e176	There are conditions in the care of the elderly that are unworthy, conditions that are not good enough, and therefore the Government does at least two things. One is that we make sure that we now build new places, that we consider thousands of new people in the care of the elderly. We are in front of the form in the case of 10,000 new annual works, we have submitted proposals for grants to build 12,000 new sites. It's not plans, it's action. There'll be more, but still a lot of mess. The second thing we do is to encourage older people who feel that there are unworthy circumstances, and that there are unwarranted offers, to complain, and we strengthen their right to apply by now sending out a proposal that they should also be given the opportunity to complain to the patient representative in addition to the access they already have to complain to the county doctor when there are unworthy circumstances. So on the other hand, we do something by employing more people, giving more money, and on the other hand, I think that where you see that there are unworthy circumstances, you have to deal with the specific cases, so that something can be done with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e181	Kjell Arvid Svendsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e184	In this election campaign we were told how the municipalities under this government were able to solve their challenges. If we take from the celebrations of the traveling councils, it may seem that this government has a different reality of the local economy than any of us. At least they can spend the same money over and over again — more for older, more for teachers, more for the church. It should be said that municipalities have improved their economy in 2006, but since then this increase has been eaten up by demographic trends and price and wage growth. I have to say, on the basis of both the consultations at Stortinget in connection with the State budget and my own experience as rapporteur in the municipality of Karmøy, a well-run minimum income municipality, that it is something quite different than shiny. The local politicians in the whole country are sitting in these days trying to get the budgets going, and it's easier said than done. The government has given people enormous expectations of what you're going to get. Does the Prime Minister see that he may have shared in creating more expectations than the municipalities can meet?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e189	First of all, in the relationship between the reality of the previous government and the current government, I would say that it is beyond doubt that this government has provided significantly more money to the municipalities, and thus significantly more money, among other things. to care for the elderly. This can only be seen by comparing the budgetary proposals made by the previous government with those put forward by this government – there are many billions more that have been carried forward, and it has been added to billions of new ones. This does not mean that it is enough, but it means that if you are busy with care for the elderly and money for care for the elderly, you can be happy that a new government came to replace the Bondevik government, as there was too little money for the municipalities. The second thing is that we don't just have plans, but we're actually doing a lot of concrete things. There are many thousands more annual works coming in the care of the elderly, we are stepping up further, and we have put forward new proposals for the Stortinget, as well as that we have sent out to the consultation proposals on how we can now strengthen the rights of the elderly with regard to good care for the elderly. Then we all have a responsibility that expectations don't get too high. We have to deliver, and we're doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e196	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e199	The Prime Minister and the current government often argue that the Nordic welfare model has been a success. And among the Nordic countries, Norway probably has the largest public sector, without comparison at all. The Prime Minister often points out that municipalities have received larger and larger transfers, and that is probably true. My challenge to the Prime Minister is not only a challenge to him as Prime Minister, but also perhaps as a social economist, because numbers now show that the demand for maintenance in the public sector in Norway is enormous, and it is strongly increasing. Only in church buildings do we have a maintenance lag of over DKK 9 billion, in primary and secondary schools we have a maintenance lag of NOK 66 billion, in other municipal and state buildings we have a maintenance lag of over DKK 90 billion, in road and rail maintenance we have a fall of DKK 50 billion – and despite being the richest country in the world, and that the Nordic welfare model based on the Prime Minister's statement is the best one can achieve. Does the Prime Minister, as an economist or as a prime minister, feel that it is reassuring that our infrastructure and real value in Norway are facing significant losses, in the billions class, when we see it in the context of a surplus of DKK 344 billion that we fund, and are speculating in foreign bonds and shares in foreign companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e209	First of all, I would like to declare that I agree that the Nordic welfare model has been a success, in the sense that there are few, if some, other social models in world history that have managed to ensure that more people have had greater opportunities to live the lives they themselves want, to make the choices they themselves want, and to have material security and at the same time to experience a diverse life. That does not mean, of course, that there are no shortcomings, weaknesses, unresolved problems in the Nordic welfare model, but that only means that the philosophical or valueless idea of having strong communities, solving the problems together, financing the most important tasks in life, such as care, pensions and health, through a spice layer, by paying taxes into the common treasury, which then takes that bill in common, and the idea that we get better if we share fairly, has proven to be very strong and competitive internationally. It is a model I am proud to be able to participate in further management and further development. Part of this idea about the Nordic welfare model is that we should just have strong communities. That is the main reason why my party, the Central Party and the SV had as their main message before the 2005 elections that we wanted to stop the fiscal policy that the Progress Party supported in front of the previous elections, that instead of spending billions of dollars on new tax reliefs for those who have a lot of money from before, we were going to spend that money on investments in the public sector, not least. That is why we have provided many new billions, including: for investment in road, hospital, church buildings and in many other public tasks. If you want to invest in the public sector, you should support parties involved in it. This government is concerned about it and has shown in practice that we have provided many new billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e218	I record that the Prime Minister has no intention of answering the question. But he likes to erode the welfare model, which is to ensure that everyone in this country gets the services they need. If there's any party that's been at the head of it, it's the Progress Party. Then the Prime Minister must refer to previous governments. We can all do that. But the delays in maintenance that I'm talking about are several decades old and were very increasing the last time the Workers' Party crashed, and the time before there when the Workers' Party crashed. I'd like to repeat the question. Although some tax relief is proposed, the state is receiving increased income. Revenues in 2008 are formidable — formidable. The Government proposes for 2008 increased delays and delays both on the road and on public buildings and delays in investments on the railways. These are the realities of the government budget presented next year. My question is again: is the Prime Minister at all concerned about the maturity of real values we witness in the public sector in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e227	I'm worried that there's not enough investment in the public sector, whether it's gone or school or whatever. That is why I am committed to increasing investment in the community that manages. As far as road is concerned, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, together with the Advance Party, adopted a transport plan that meant that we would increase in relation to the Bondevik government by SEK 2.2 billion per year. We have now reached that level, so now we are at the level of appropriations we promised before the 2005 elections. Then we weren't there in 2006, there's a lag of a few hundred million dollars. We've taken some of it, and then we're working on taking the rest of it, to see if we get completely into the goal. So we're at the level of funding we promised, and we're not far behind in the aftermath either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e234	There will be four follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e237	When the Prime Minister is so pleased with the government's policy in this area, he may also have to be satisfied that the University of Oslo has brought the great innovation with indoor roofing to take away leaks. Only in the university sector, there is a decline of SEK 7.4 billion. This is not just a question of money. It is also a question of the way in which a person organises the maintenance work, the way in which a person organises the construction activity. The Bondevik II Government started a major work on the state construction and property activities, resulting in a comprehensive reform proposal that would have released large resources for maintenance and made new construction projects considerably cheaper. The government of Stoltenberg stopped this whole reform immediately after they took over, and said they would come back to the matter. Now it's been two years. When we again ask the government Stoltenberg what they have done with the matter, they say they will consider the matter. Nothing has been done, and the maintenance allowance and the due time continue. Construction projects are still more expensive. There can be no work pressure in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, which is why nothing has been done. What is the reason why the Government has not done anything about this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e244	I am concerned with the renewal of the public sector. I am concerned that we spend the tax money in the most sensible way possible, that we organise colleges and universities and all other public sector businesses, in the best possible way. I promise the representative that I will now make sure that we do the work we are going to do, so that we ensure that investments in higher education too are managed in the best possible way. It's not necessarily that the models Victor Norman had were the best. We want to go through this and find out how they think maintenance and investment in higher education should best be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e249	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e252	The church tower in the thirteenth church is on the ground, and the high school students at Bjølsen were told that the school had to shut down. As a questioner before I said, we have a It is then amazing to see, with the eyes of the Christian People's Party, that the very successful interest-free lending scheme that the municipalities received was cut in the year's budget. It has to be a work accident. We have proposed to continue the scheme in our alternative budget, by 500 million. DKK to church and DKK 1 billion for refurbishment of school buildings. My question will be whether the Prime Minister sees that this is a very good arrangement to do something about the great backlog, for which I think we share a common concern, and will he help to get this good loan system going again?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e257	This question raises a more fundamental question, the question of how much we should control the municipalities, how much we should earmark, and how much we should leave to the municipalities to think for themselves, because there may be different situations in different municipalities. In some municipalities, for example: be such that they have a fine school building, but what they lack is money for teachers, for content. In other municipalities, they may feel that the main problem is a lack of investment, but they have enough money to run. My previous government proposed a school construction scheme to get a lift. We have a promise, but now we have chosen to increase the free revenues of the municipalities, so that the municipalities that are engaged in operating can do so, while the municipalities that are engaged in investing can do so. It is essential that the overall allocations to municipalities have increased significantly, and thus have greater opportunities, more money both to run a school and to invest in school, but they choose even more what is most important in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e262	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e265	Building is about the future. Since the Prime Minister was in the municipalities, I get to give the case information that in the city we are in now, the last time the Workers' Party was in the vicinity of controlling it, used approx. Twenty-eight million. kr on maintenance and school construction, and under the civil regime since 1995, with the Left on the tip, 12 billion kroner have been spent. But we're not going to go into the municipalities, because I understand that the Prime Minister thinks it's demanding. We can go to the state side, and it's still about the future. Then we are in the situation that we have a long and sad list of fake constructions at universities and colleges, among other things. in as vital areas as the training of dentists and nurses. The sad list is topped by the odontology building in Bergen, which is not good at all, to say it briefly, and the pathology building that the Oslo College needs to train nurses. Does the Prime Minister think that it is a problem that these buildings still top up a tedious long list of decay and lack of maintenance, and therefore a lack of priority for health workers — dentists and nurses?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e273	First, I don't think it's demanding to talk about the municipalities. On the contrary, I would like to talk a lot more about the municipalities, because they have received NOK 20 billion more after this government took over after the previous government. Therefore, municipalities have more money for many good purposes, e.g. school maintenance. But they've got more like free money and less like earmarked funds. Secondly, I am concerned that we should also invest in state higher education and university buildings, which is why higher education appropriations have also increased. More money is being allocated now than before. But granting more money doesn't mean that there's no need for more, and that's what we get back to in later budgets. The crucial thing is that we have stepped up, and want to continue to escalate, among other things. to invest in various higher education buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e280	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e283	Norwegian welfare buildings are due. NTNU, which made calculations on this, estimated that maintenance would be approximately NOK 165 billion. So in that situation, the government cancels the interest compensation scheme for schools and church buildings. They provide a budget where the increase in the framework of the municipalities does not even cover the expected price and salary growth to next year, claims KS. So this is the reality of the budget and the financial structure set up by the Government, and it is clear that it will make it even more difficult to maintain public buildings. We have understood that the Government does not want tax relief. But is it that it will not take care of the community's welfare buildings and the Community's infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e290	This government wants to take care of the Community infrastructure. Therefore, the government allocates more money to infrastructure. That's also the main reason why we made a very important political choice, namely that we said no to tax laws to have more money for the community. The municipalities also get more. They've got $20 billion more in three years. It's a historically strong growth. Also in 2008, the real growth in the income of municipalities is SEK 6.2 billion. It's a solid growth, like, for example, means that we get more money both to hire more people in the care of the elderly and to build and invest more. It's in the opposition's privilege to refer to the buildings you haven't built, while I'm occupied with the buildings we've built. It's always going to be like that, no matter who's in position and opposition. I think it's crucial that we make some choices. The choices we have made give us a different direction, and that is why we have more money for these types of Community solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e297	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e300	I want to go back to the opening question from Dagfinn Højbrätten, and I want to say to the Prime Minister: I did not feel reassured by the answer given by the Prime Minister on the question of whether his party traps in the Stortinget are equipped with powers that enable them to do what the Government refused to do in ours, namely to create a basis for a settlement that allows us both to expand the care of the elderly and to improve the quality of the care of the elderly, for both sides need to be done now. So we have situations like those we've seen on TV, for example. where 89-year-old Kari lives in a warehouse at Skavangertun Hospital in Kongsberg. I mean – and I am absolutely sure the Prime Minister agrees – that we should not have an elderly care where older people are treated as stockpiles, but we should have an elderly care that is characterized by respect and knowledge. Then it's important to say that knowledge is one of the key words to make a deal in the future. Today we use approx. 30 pst. more in hospitals than our neighbouring country does, and it is not possible to measure more quality. But the researchers say that some of the reasons for the difference are that we have a poorer quality and less extensive care for the elderly, especially with regard to the care and care of the lucky day, i.e. sick home-like places, and we have poorer quality and less medical coverage on them. Then is my challenge to the Prime Minister: does he have concrete measures that will help us get more doctors to work in a hospital, to increase the quality of those who work there, and to make sure that we don't place older people who could be in a hospital, in a hospital, because we have shortages in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e311	I believe that the issue raised by the representative of Solberg is a very important issue, and that is precisely the interaction or cooperation between the care services, nursing homes and nursing homes, and the health services. There is no doubt that by strengthening the care of the elderly by expanding places there, with which the Government is in the process – we will also reach 10,000 new annual works – we will be able to relieve the hospitals. That's an important reason for what we're doing now. We are also looking at how to achieve better cooperation between hospitals and care for the elderly, for example. to relieve hospitals by allowing people who are not actually going to a hospital to get a good offer in a hospital home. We have therefore also increased the effort to get medical work in a nursing home. We have a multi-annual commitment to new medical devices in nursing homes, clear targets for more health professionals and a significant increase in the proportion of staff with higher education up to 2015. Part of the care notification and part of the measures we have put forward in the context of the State budget are precisely about strengthening competence — ranging from several medical years to the fact that the thousands of unskilled people working in the care of the elderly are receiving vocational training and qualification. We're talking about about about 12,000 that we're betting on to get vocational training.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e318	The challenge is that the Prime Minister's ambitions for 12 000 more hospital places until 2015 do not give a quality boost. It usually only keeps up with today's offer, compared to the number of older people. That is why we believe that we need to have a higher ambition and faster deployment of more hospitals. And then there's one thing, after reading many of the strategy plans and other. Many objectives are set, but no instruments are specified. One of our challenges is that today we have approx. 80 geriatrics. In 2011, we're only going to have 85 people who are specialists in this, because in the number there are more who are in education, and there are no concrete instruments in the strategies it's set up, there's only wishful goals. We pointed out a concrete tool in the election campaign. There's a big pay gap between hospital doctors and doctors working in hospitals. We believe that the state should take the medium-term promise, raise the level of hospital doctors, so that working with older people with complex problems does not become economically less favourable than working with relatively younger and healthier people in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e327	I don't think it's reasonable to say that we only have targets and no tools to bet on the care of the elderly. Firstly, objectives are important, and secondly, we have instruments. We have a target of 10,000 new annual works. Then we have granted billions of extra dollars to the municipalities, and now we are in front of the form to get 10,000 new annual works into the care of the elderly. There are different types of annual work, but there are also medical and nursing work among them – the annual work of the skilled worker. Secondly, we have a target of 12,000 new places to improve the quality. Then comes an instrument: both strengthening the local economy and a state grant of its own. Thirdly, we have a goal of increasing quality and competence. Therefore, more competence is granted. We have a goal of doing something about dementia. We have presented a dementia plan and measures within it. We have a target of providing measures to improve daily provision, including: through several cultural services to the elderly. So we do a lot and we want to do even more. If we get a consensus in the Stortinget, it's great, but then you have to sit down in the committee and see if there's any basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e338	There will be four follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e341	I can guarantee to the Prime Minister that it is the will of the parties in the Health and Care Committee to just sit down and try to get something. It has also been tried, but where it stopped, it was actually in the government parties, who were not willing to be on a level of escalation. A few brief examples from last week: Hamar Arbeiderblad on 13 November: The municipality of Hamar opened in our hospital for 80 million. kr. As of June next year, 20 sick homes in the home will be empty, because the municipality cannot afford them. Day Revyen, 12 November: In Trökstad two and two older may share small rooms. Glåmdalen, 9 November: ‘Health surveillance in Hedmark means the municipality’ – Kongsvinger kommune – ‘is unable to ensure a proper offer of hospital accommodation for those who have such rights’. In answer to my first question, the Prime Minister said that they were ahead of the plan, linked to the 10,000 new annual works in the care of the elderly. I would ask the Prime Minister to specify where he has that figure, because it is not possible to distinguish between what is related to the care of the elderly and what is related to the care sector in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e360	So, first of all, we're dealing with care for the elderly precisely because there's a lack of care for the elderly, and I think the media are doing an important job when they get examples of shortcomings. Then the answer to that is that there needs to be more – and the government is doing more money, more employees – and, on the one hand, making sure that the elderly or their relatives who experience unworthy circumstances complain. Without my being able to decide on any single example, it may be contrary to laws, regulations and regulations, for it states that everyone is entitled to necessary and appropriate offers. We also go through the law now to gather it, strengthen it and make it clear. So you have to be able to complain, take it up. We also increase access to justice by strengthening the patient representative to include the community health service. So yes, there are many unworthy relationships, and yes, that's why we have to do something about it, both concretely by complaining and generally by granting more money. The figures relate to the overall effort in the care sector, which is quite correct. These are official figures, for example: from the Central Statistical Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e369	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e372	We have a great situation here in Stortinget, because there's an entire opposition ready to join in and take a common commitment for our older people. We in the Christian People's Party choose to take the Prime Minister on the floor, that he wants an interaction with the Storting in this matter. But that also means that those who are going to negotiate have to have powers that make us get some results. There is a need for employees in the sector if we are to be able to do something. Being able to meet older people’s needs properly is a matter of competence. There are more and more people living longer, despite serious diseases and suffering, and that is, they need a lot of care. In Oslo, for example, two out of three who work with the elderly on weekends, unskilled. I could imagine asking the Prime Minister for something. Technical vocational schools receive financial support, while those who train health professionals have not received support. Will it be something that the Prime Minister will come back to – to make a system so that we get more competent workers in the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e381	In any case, it is that an important part of the care plan and what we have mentioned in the State budget is the fact that there is an increase in competence, especially for those who are currently unskilled, and we have a goal there that 12,000 of the unskilled are to become a specialist. With regard to the grant schemes for colleges and schools in the health and social sector, I don't want to be too specific about that, because that's something I think we're going to go into and look at now. But I hope you can look at that kind of thing in Stortinget, and see if it is possible to reach any agreement. There are two things I have to say. It's that I can't negotiate in a big room. It must be done in the Committee. And there's a consensus that we want to make a deal. But it's only when you see what the different parties actually mean in peace and quiet in a committee, that you see if the distance is so large that it's impossible to make a deal, or if the distance is so small, and the will is so great, that it's possible to make a deal. Now you have to do that in peace and quiet, and only then do you know if you have the basis for a settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e390	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e393	The government often manufactures Norway as a world champion in the welfare championship. However, studies show that Norway is the worst in Scandinavia to treat undernourished elderly people. They show that 50 pst. of the elderly lyophilisates are undernourished. Sub-nutrition in Norwegian hospitals actually entails an extra cost of DKK 1 billion per person. years. It's simply uneconomic not to address such a problem, but it's obviously unworthy of a welfare society that will be in the elite division. Malnutrition among older people is a known problem, and many people say it is a banal problem. However, responses to the problem seem to be rather absent, nor is the focus on the problem. So my question to the Prime Minister is, does the Prime Minister agree that this is an unworthy situation? What will the Prime Minister do with this big problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e400	Yes, I agree that it is unworthy that older ones are undernourished. One of the reasons we need to strengthen care for the elderly is that we know that malnutrition is a problem. The reasons vary. One of the things we're doing now is giving more money to research to understand the problems some older people are facing, including. Because 80 pst. — eight out of ten — in institutions in the care of the elderly have dementia, and there may be a link between dementia and malnutrition. Secondly, there is a reason why we are now strengthening vocational training in order to increase the skills of those who work in the care of the elderly – among others. related to improving the competence of nutrition. Thirdly, I believe that creating more experiences, getting more culture, more luck, more music, more content into the stay at the institution is good in itself, but it may also help to increase appetite. That in itself is good for combating malnutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e405	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e408	First, a mild heart attack. I think it would be an advantage for all parties if the Prime Minister stopped recycling the figure of 10,000 new year-olds for the care sector as a whole, because there the government has also counted on the last year of the previous government's time in the calculation. In other words, it is estimated that 2,000 new annual works per year. average years, and it is below what has been natural growth over the previous ten years. It represents no bet at all. So to my question. The medical treatment in a nursing home is disastrously bad. This leads, inter alia, to: that many of the sickest older people are transported as freight back and forth between hospital and hospital wards, to no delight for the patients. To date, the Government has not provided a single instrument to stimulate better medical coverage in hospitals. The only thing that has been proposed is to introduce this as a compulsory part of the rotational training of young doctors. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that it would be a disaster policy to put the youngest and most inexperienced doctors to serve the most complex cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e415	Firstly, I think it is very important that politicians not only make new promises, but also talk about the old promises they made, and explain to what extent they fulfill old promises. In the 2005 election campaign, one of the most important promises from the Workers' Party was that from 2005 to 2009 – it was very clear in a lot of electoral material – we would increase the number of annual jobs in the care sector by 10,000. That's why I often point it out, because I think those who voted in the Labour Party, and everyone else, should know that when we say something, we do it. Then it's a point to show that we keep the promises we gave to the elderly about the number of annual work in the care of the elderly. We're actually in front of that form. Secondly, I am dedicated to strengthening the medical profession in the care of the elderly. I believe that with the tour it is not irresponsible, but there is one way to get more doctors to care for the elderly. Thirdly, strengthening the local economy also helps to improve medical coverage, and fourthly, I would like to talk about other tools to increase medical coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e422	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e426	I would like to ask about the Government's attitude to privacy. At the initiative of the Left, a Data Protection Commission was established. While we're waiting for it, there's an incredible amount going on in this area, especially in terms of security and privacy. Much of this is perceived by the Left to be driven primarily by new technology and the desire to put it into use, not necessarily by its utility. Last week we were presented to Avinor's plans for body scan at airports. Now we have to dress naked before we board. Some of us don't have Avinor at the top of our wish list to do that. The main question in this case is: Does the Government have any policy while we are waiting for the Privacy Commission, in the area of privacy? And can we get a clear signal from the Prime Minister about whether it's okay at any time to want to use new technology, sail if we know in Avinor's case that it doesn't lead to increased security, but to four seconds of faster review? Is there a critical sense in the Government where you want to set some limits when privacy is threatened, for what are we going to be exposed to by new technology? Or is the government just waiting for the Left-initiated Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e435	I believe that the question raised by the representative about the relationship between privacy and other considerations is an important and difficult issue. I consider it so that there are very few people who have the kind of lay that they will appreciate being undressed by Avinor. But what it travels is a more fundamental question: how do we sometimes reconcile conflicting considerations, namely, the consideration of, for example, the desire to combat crime, the desire to combat tax evasion, or the desire, in the case of very many health records, to gain much better knowledge of the quality of health services, the quality of care for the elderly, and to obtain rapid information on the suffering and diseases that a patient may have, which speaks in order to co-operate with health records, and the interest in privacy? It's technically complicated things, and it's ethical and basically complicated things. That's why it's good that a commission has been set up – and I got the impression that it was the Left that was a driver for it, I'm noticing it. But it is also the case that we have to make decisions along the way, and then we have to consider the individual proposals that come on the table, in the balance between privacy and, for example, privacy. health, safety and crime, which are also important considerations to be taken into account in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e440	I agree, of course, with the Prime Minister that this is at all times a balance. Privacy is threatened every day. The rules we have are also broken every day. We've had legislation for seven years now. No one has been convicted, but we don't have to go beyond the front page of the evening post to see that this protection is threatened. The government cuts in the transfers to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. And we see that with simple Google search you can go in and look for who it is that has complained about social assistance. It is not certain that they are the ones in the front when it comes to claiming their privacy. I want the government to be on the track and say that there are actually some limits as well. I don't think the Prime Minister did that in his answer. What are the challenges today? Are you actually willing to set limits on technology and to use it for all kinds of good purposes, when we see that often non-public bodies also get involved in our privacy, for some good purpose that is out of proportion to the challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e447	I hope I didn't put it in such a way that it could be considered that I thought you wouldn't set limits. Of course, limits are needed to protect individuals in order to protect privacy. But what I tried was to problematize that sometimes there are difficult balances. For example, there have also been media examples of things that people feel can be pointless, for example. in the case of the fight against money laundering and the fight against organised criminal environments, or in the case of quality assurance of health, where data are available, but where they are not allowed to be seen in the context of crime control or to improve the quality of health services. That's just the balance that's the problem. And then we have to go into the specific issues. But there shall be bounds, and more than that: the bounds shall be enforced. I believe that some of the examples we have of poor privacy are not about lack of borders, but about the lack of enforcement of already adopted borders. So there have to be limits and they have to be enforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e454	There will be four follow-up questions – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e457	Privacy is under intense attack. While the Privacy Commission may be working, data protection is actually weakened every day. My question to the Prime Minister is: How much privacy for Norwegian citizens will the Prime Minister allow the EU to be removed through a reservation-free EEA adaptation? From that point of view, attacks are in line: surveillance of air passengers, information on credit cards, travel orders, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses when entering the EU. Security check with scanners has been mentioned. It's part of a pan-European scheme, a serious invasion of the private sphere. Satellite tracking of cars, so-called eCall, has already written a commitment agreement to introduce from 2010 without asking the Stortinget. The last thing we've seen -- I guess yesterday -- is that all citizens over six years have to pass fingerprints. How much data protection should the EU eliminate in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e462	I don't think it's right for me to answer that question in general, but more to refer to what I just answered the previous question, namely that in these cases there is often – not always – a typical balance between privacy considerations and consideration for, for example. safety or something that many people are concerned with: that there are people in Norway without a legal stay, without a known identity. Then there will sometimes be these kind of balances. Then you have to go through the individual issues, and then weigh the different considerations against each other. But I often feel that people are busy with us, for example. shall fight crime and use the data and records that enable it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e467	Kari Lise Holmberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e470	Yes, in these days it seems that the focus in the privacy debate is on whether you are being felt or undressed at airports. What is certain, at least, is that the government's priority of privacy is thoroughly delineated in the proposal for next year's budget. Because, in a situation where the Government has submitted a budget proposal which, to say all state activities, will meet next year's need for increased wage and price growth, the Data Protection Authority will be cut. Now we have just heard the Prime Minister issue about privacy. But what is the reason why the Prime Minister is ticking on the Data Protection Agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e475	I think it's a good idea for a prime minister not to comment on all the individual items in the budget, especially because the Data Protection Agency's budget I haven't suggested. So I think it's a good idea to ask that question to the Council of State, and the Council of State will certainly give a complementary and good answer as to why that budget line is exactly the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e480	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e484	I fully understand that the Prime Minister remembers the figures for the items where it is budgetary growth rather than for the items where it is cut. I have every understanding of that. When we in Stortinget dealt with the Swedish Data Protection Authority's annual report for 2004, State Councillor Heidi Grande Røys said that it might be time to upgrade data protection, so that it also received constitutional protection. Has the Prime Minister and the Government considered it a little further in the two years since the question was raised? Is it possible to consider providing data protection with constitutional protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e491	It is much more demanding to remember the additions, because there are so many more of them, so it just shows what I – yes. As far as fundamental law is concerned, I believe that it raises a very important debate that belongs both in government and in general, and that is: What kind of constitution do we want, and do we want a revision of the Constitution until 2014? And there you can think of different models. Either you can imagine that we – what to say – make minor changes to today’s existing constitution, and for example. adds an interest such as privacy. There's been other questions about culture and that kind of thing. But another model is to think that we're making a total constitutional revision in terms of language themes, cleaning up some paragraphs and creating a whole new constitution. It's a different variant, for example: include much more about parliamentaryism and today's real governance systems. A third variant is to say that today's constitution is a very well-functioning constitution. And although it's not always the case that the Basic Law's letter reflects the constitutional reality, it's still a constitution that has served the country well, so that we keep the Basic Law in its character and nature and are careful to introduce new considerations and new purposes. These are different models that I think should be discussed in depth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e498	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e501	Privacy involves, inter alia: the right to anonymous movement. Technological development now gives us the opportunity to follow where you are, when you're there, how you got there, and what you're doing. Evolution itself is a good thing. But it has to be voluntary to what extent you want to be monitored. In October 2006, the Left handed over a proposal for a representative on the review of privacy in the transport sector. Can the Prime Minister here and now confirm that he will follow up this proposal for a representative? And in that case – what concrete action does he intend to take while we are waiting for the Data Protection Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e508	I assume that the Privacy Commission is also going to look at privacy in the transport sector, and that is where it belongs if you are going to make some fundamental changes or make some significant new laws and regulations in that area. The challenge when we have commissions or samples at work is that we are often forced to make decisions regarding the areas the Commission is working on while waiting for the Commission's position. And while we're waiting for the Commission's position and possibly legal work and follow-up of it, we have to deal with the individual issues that come, whether they're in transport, tax, crime or other areas, and make an assessment where we're assessing, for example. concerns for road safety and other aspects of data protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e515	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e518	Norway's first gas power plant was officially opened on Thursday 1 November at Kårstø. Minister of Economic Affairs Dag Terje Andersen made the official opening. He said that the gas power plant at Kårstø is the cleanest in Europe, it is based on the best available technology available today, and he stressed that Kårstø has the highest efficiency possible for gas power plants today. The Minister of Industry even said that Kårstø opens a new chapter in Norwegian energy history, since it uses more of the raw materials from the North Sea. He said the modern gas power plant at Kårstø is a step in the right environmental direction, because the alternative to gas power plants is coal power, which pollutes more. These are words that remind you that you can believe that the government wants Kårstø well. And then it's important that the Kårstø power plant get framework conditions in line with what they have in the EU, so that it is competitive. It has been generally understood that the Kårstø gas power plant will be treated in line with the corresponding gas power plant in Europe for the allocation of free CO2 allowances. That principle is agreed by the Progress Party. But recently, a political uncertainty has been created around Kårstø, whether they will participate in the climate quota market in line with their European competitors. On questions to Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, he will not confirm whether the principle applies and that there is a level playing field. Instead, he refers to signals given to Stortinget in June 2007, when the climate quota law was dealt with. There the government said: ‘There has been no specific objective of non-discrimination between gas power stations and similar plants in those EU countries.’ ‘new gas power plants, i.e.: gas power plants which have not had normal emissions before the Act enters into force on 1 July 2007 shall be based on clean-up in order to be allocated allowances from the gas power reserve.’;» If this is done, it means that Kårstø gets a bill of 150-200 million. kr. Then it's the same as the hook on the door for Kårstø. Now it's less than seven weeks until the Climate Allowance Act comes into force. Can the Prime Minister remove political uncertainty and confirm that Kårstø is allocated free CO2 allowances in line with EU competitors?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e543	The question of the allocation of allowances and the proportion to be paid free of charge and the proportion to be paid, both for industry, for process industries, for energy use and for power generation, is addressed in the paper on the allowance law under consideration by the Stortinget. The principles have been set out. Then the Government shall draw up what is called a national allocation plan, where the final allowances are allocated according to the principles set out in the allowance law. There it was shown, among others. gas power plants with – I think it was used the formulation – very high efficiency, referred to those who had concession, and then showed principles for awarding them. There is no blue copy of what is in Europe, but there are award criteria that we believe take due account of Norwegian gas power plants, and take into account the desire to contribute to the creation of the most environmentally friendly gas power plants, among others. by allocating allowances to gas power stations that purify. The details of this and the final design come when the Government presents its allocation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e548	This is a fundamental question. I accept that it takes time to design the details, but the principles should be able to explain to the Prime Minister seven weeks before the law comes into force. For what was adopted in the Climate Allowance Act is to obtain allowances if it is a highly efficient power plant à la Mongstad, or if it is based on CO2 clean-up. Kårstø is none of the parts. So it's seven weeks until the law comes into force. When the Prime Minister talks about the creation of political uncertainty, he should be as specific in the Stortinget as he was in the Channel 24 1 November, the day Kårstø opened. He then said that the gas plants in Mongstad and Kårstø would have to buy allowances for each gram of CO2 they emit. And he went on to say, ‘In the years we wait for CO2 clean-up, gas power plants will pay for cleaning elsewhere.’ This suggests that at Channel 24, the Prime Minister considered that the principle was that the gas power plant at Kårstø should not be allocated CO2 allowances in line with its European competitors, because it is not based on CO2 cleaning and is not a high-efficiency heat plant, as Mongstad is. Can the Prime Minister confirm whether what he said on Channel 24, is what the Government's policy, or was it just a way to get away from a report?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e577	Firstly, the principles are set out in the quota law and in the odelstungsproposition that followed it. Then we have said that those principles are to be implemented through the allocation plan. It's coming in the near future. That's the answer to the question. With regard to the issue of whether or not the gas power plant should have allowances, the point is that either the gas power plant – like any other Norwegian industrial activity within the allowance system – has to buy allowances or the country has to buy allowances. All greenhouse gas undertakings, whether offshore or industrial, or gas power stations, must currently have an emission quota in order to operate. The question is not whether we buy allowances, but whether it is the country or the work that pays, because it is going to buy allowances for each gram.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e587	There will be two follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e591	It does not appear in Ot.prp. No 66 for 2006-2007, the status of Kårstø in this context. There is no doubt that the questioner Ketil Solvik-Olsen has a very good point. It is the case – as mentioned in the newspaper today – that the Kårstø case is unfortunately still unsolved. It is also such that a Danish coal-fired power plant from 1 January next year will have an approximate 100 pst. free quota and much better framework conditions than, for example: what the Government itself refers to as the most environmentally friendly gas power plant in the world. Can the Prime Minister guarantee — or can he not guarantee — that from the turn of the year Kårstø will have at least as good framework conditions as e.g.: a Danish coal-fired power plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e598	As can be seen from, inter alia: work on the quota law, and as we said in this connection, the principle is not to have a blueprint, to have exactly the same award criteria as the EU. In many areas, we have deviated from what has been chosen in EU countries. Different EU countries have also chosen different award criteria. So what are EU criteria varies a little, depending on which EU countries we are looking at. We have chosen national award criteria and explained them, whether in terms of emissions from the process industry, energy emissions or emissions from our oil and gas activities, which have completely different award criteria for emissions than the oil and gas industry elsewhere. We have not said that we should have a copy of the European, but we have said something about the principles of allocation. And then we have said that we will come back to final allocation when we present the national allocation plan. Then you can't mix two things. All allowances in Norway that are subject to allowances shall be purchased for. What we're discussing is whether it's the businesses themselves or the state that's going to pay for the allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e609	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e612	The Prime Minister says that either the state or the gas power plant must pay for the allowances. It's elementary. What we don't know is what the government means. Is it the polluter to pay, as the Left thinks, or is it the State? Here the Prime Minister and the Government have very unclear. To Channel 24, the Prime Minister said that gas power stations will pay for every gram they release. Is it still his attitude, or is it such that Kårstø should appear as an exhibition window for the Government's breach of promises? First, the Prime Minister promised that it would be cleansing from 2009. Now we know that it will only happen in 2012. And so he promised the polluters would pay. Now it could be that the state ends up with a bill of 200 million. kr per. year of discharges on Kårstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e619	First, the Left was in a government that allowed the construction of a gas power plant on Melkøya – I think that in itself was excellent. Secondly, they did not say in any way that they should be added to the cleaning of e.g.. gas power plant at Kårstø. And third, there is a broad consensus in the Storting that we should have a combination of free allowances and paid allowances. This applies, for example: for the industry, where I mean to remember that 87 pst. is free of charge in the case of energy emissions from industrial enterprises, and then 100 pst. free of charge for emissions from process enterprises. Then we discuss the percentage that should be free of charge for gas power, depending on what type of gas power. I think it's neat and correct of the Government to present it completely, when we're done with the allocation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e626	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e629	Norway needs more labour. We know that our hospitals, the care of the elderly and the school need more labour. We also know that our businesses need more labour. There are now far more job vacancies than there are unemployed. Of course, it is very gratifying that unemployment has now fallen to as low a level as it has. The question is, what do we do to get more labour? One of the things we can do is motivate those who are already at work to do something longer in work. Today, the problem is that many people are already out of the labour market when they are in the early 1960s. We have a part approaching retirement age, or who has actually become pensioners, 67-70-year-olds, who want to continue working. But then we are in the strange situation that older workers, who have incredible skills, are punished if they continue to work. I want to compliment the Prime Minister on what he said at the Norwegian Pensioners' Association's annual meeting on 5 June. Then the prime minister said: «Abbreviation is to be removed. Abbreviation is an expression. It shall be removed and shall be removed as soon as possible.’» The prime minister mentioned here is the curtailment of the pension that 67-70-year-olds get if they are in work. What the Prime Minister has chosen to do in the 2008 state budget is to remove the curtailment of the pension for the 67-year-olds, while retaining the curtailment for those 68 and 69-year-olds. This is perceived as grossly unfair for many of the 68- and 69-year-olds who want to continue working. Is it so that this curtailment in retirement is a deed just for the 67-year-olds? Does the Prime Minister agree that there is also a penalty for the 68- and 69-year-olds who want to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e649	I fully agree that it is important that we do more to mobilise more labour. I believe that there are also great opportunities in the case of older workers. What I was talking about at the Norwegian Pensioners' Association's annual meeting was the pension reform. The problem with the current pension scheme is not just the curtailment of the 67, 68 and 69-year-olds. The big problem, which really concerns many, and which is about a lot of labour, is the curtailment of today's contractual pension, the AFP, which includes 80 pst. by employees and some other schemes starting from the age of 62. The problem is that if you leave as a 62-year-old, as a very many do, or as a 63- or 64-year-old – and I think you should have a good contractual pension, so that those who are not able to do more can leave when they are 62 years old – and you want to work a little bit side by side, you might feel a little fresher the following year, so you want to take a watch at the hospital, drive a bus or whatever it is, then they get a full curtailment. That is why the main point of the pension reform, the main point of the dialogue we now have with the social partners about a new contractual pension, is that everyone should be able to retire from 62 years, take out full pension, possibly full AFP if they are entitled to it, and still get zero curtailment, and then they should be able to work as much or as little as they want next door. I said that I should remove as soon as possible, and I am sure of that. But the fastest time to do that is 1 January 2010. Because it's only when we have a new performance model and a new code in place, which means that we don't just have to remove the abbreviation for the 68 and 69 year olds, as right will. We're going to remove the abbreviation from 62 years, and for the rest of your life, one can work as much or as little as one will with zero abbreviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e658	I agree that we have to make it more profitable to work even for those who are between 62 and 67 years of age. Therefore, the Right also proposes a tax bill of NOK 6000 for those between 62 and 67 who choose to work. We believe it is important to motivate older workers to work. One way to do it is to reward those who choose to work. I think the prime minister would stand by not talking as unclear as he obviously deliberately chose to do at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Pensioners' Association. There has been no question behind what message the Prime Minister had at that national meeting, namely that curtailment of pensions for 67-70-year-olds was a mishap and that it should be removed as soon as possible. Let me go back to the core question: why does the government just choose to remove the abbreviation for the 67-year-olds, while punishing the 68- and 69-year-olds who choose to work? There are actually quite a few of them, and we need the skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e667	First of all, the last government that sat on the right did nothing in this area – no things of the world. First of all, we've removed the abbreviation for 67-year-olds. Secondly – and it is much, much more important, because it is about many more people – there are several 62, 63, 64, 65 and 66 year-olds who have some residual working capacity, than 70-year-olds, even though there are some of them. What we're saying is that from 62 years and the rest of your life you should be able to work as much or as little as a wild, half a day or a whole day, next to a full pension and get zero abbreviation. It happens as soon as possible. This will happen from 1 January 2010, provided that we have the law on new popular protection here in the Stortinget, and provided that we have a new contractual pension that is such that we can remove any curtailment. It's our goal both in relation to the Greatness and to the social partners, and we're doing it as fast as we can at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e674	There will be two follow-up questions – first Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e678	We are in a situation where large sections of society cry out for skilled labour, and there are often seniors who own that labour force. An increasing number of enterprises, municipalities, county councils, institutions and, in general, all public sector departments are spending large amounts of money to facilitate, by making senior plans, to get people to work longer. It is also gratifying that there are more and more older people who want to work longer. Then we have reached the most illogical act in the budget, that is to remove the abbreviation for the 67-year-olds, but not for the 68- and 69-year-olds. This has been avoided by the Prime Minister. Perhaps the Prime Minister can explain to me the logic of removing the abbreviation for the 67-year-olds, but not for the 68- and 69-year-olds, while at the same time spending large amounts of money making action plans to get this group older to work longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e685	The main point is that we're on the threshold of making a fundamental change in the entire pension system. We are on the threshold of getting a whole new pension scheme, where the state no longer cares about how to use savings pension funds, after working a long life and paying social security contributions. So now we've come to an agreement in Stortingen on that principle. The legislative proposals are soon to be consulted, and then we are going to negotiate with the social partners in order to hopefully agree on the principle, because they have to agree if we are to change the AFP system from 62 years so that we can remove all the shortening. If we don't get the two elements – the laws and agreements with the employees – that's what I tried to say, not questions about the 68- and 69-year-olds, but there are questions about the 62-, 63-, 64-, 65-, 66-year-olds, etc. be able to get rid of a full pension – take out everything they have earned in retirement, and then work a lot or little. It is a major welfare reform. We then get a pension scheme where everyone can work freely next to the pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e692	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e695	The Prime Minister has now repeatedly tried to explain why the Government does not want 68- and 69-year-olds to be able to work without a curtailment in the pension, while 67- and 70-year-olds will have to do so. When all rhetoric is put aside, the explanation is as simple as the government did not find room for prioritising it, because then the Minister of Labour and Inclusion would have received much at the expense of other government councils. Then I expect the Prime Minister to have registered that the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget has actually found room to prioritize this good and fair action. I'm not going to ask about numbers, nor about future plans, but about logic. Can the Prime Minister logically explain why a 67-year-old and a 70-year-old should be able to work as much as he or she will, without shortening the pension, while a 68-year-old and a 69-year-old absolutely should not?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e704	There is a great deal in the Norwegian pension system that is not logical at all. It's e.g. It's not possible to understand why it's going to be so that in many places we have one set of abbreviation rules for them from 62 to 65 years, then a new set from 65 to 67, and then a new set from 67 to 70. And then, from 70 years on, it's all of a sudden the law for most people to work as much as you want next to the pension. After all, it's just all these inconsistencys in the pension system that we're now going to clean up once and for all, and it's not a bad system, but we're going to remove a lot of messy, self-contradicting, illogical curtailment rules and other rules in the pension system. And then we take it all away from 62 years. But while we wait for it – because it takes some time to negotiate a new contractual pension scheme that needs to be put in place to do so, and it takes some time to send legislative proposals at the hearing and so on – we do a little simple operation, namely to remove it for the 67-year-olds. But it's not going to be done until we have a new pension scheme, with zero curtailment from 62 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-14.ana.ud1117e711	The oral question procedure is now over, and the current map has been completed. Does anyone request a word from Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
