ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e94	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e97	I have, on behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, André Oktay Dahl and myself, the pleasure of proposing the introduction of minimum penalties when convicted of serious criminal offences third time or more.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e102	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e105	On behalf of the representatives of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Tord Lien and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to wind up the Finnmark property – and close the Sametinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e110	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e126	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3596]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e142	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to three lines after the submission of the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines after the insertion of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e153	Today, we are going to consider how to ensure that municipalities can provide a good school offer, a safe and close care for the elderly, a good cultural offer and fill some gaps in the way – we are going to deal with the municipal planning for 2008. First, I want to start with some facts. The municipalities get between 1.5 and 1.75 billion more in free money. We're adding 425 million. kr more to the resource-requiring services scheme. At the bottom of this arrangement is that we've got 700 million. kr more in increased tax revenue this year, which means that we have a solid foundation for next year's budget. If we include the earmarked bets, next year, the municipal sector will have between 4.5 and 5.25 billion more to work with. With this scheme we have got a real growth of approx. 20 billion kroner over the years that have gone after the election. It is a solid foundation for the municipal sector. In a hundred days, there will be a choice - local choice. 431 rapporteurs and thousands of elected representatives should ask for trust. There will be a flood of local debates. Local candidates should point out the direction and give their answers to the challenges they face in their municipality, as we did two years ago. The first two points in my and the Central Party election program were school and care. The solution we in the Centerpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet and SV pointed to was strengthened municipal economy. We pointed to community solutions. The direction we wanted was clear, and people decided in elections. Then the question is after two years: can we see any change in direction after the big shot? Is there a significant difference between the debate today, when Haga is a minister, and the debate four years ago, when Solberg was a minister? I don't think I need to answer. Everyone who can see sees it. Direction has been changed. A new course is fenced out. And as the rapporteur-in-Office, I am happy to say that today there is peace in the finances of the municipalities. A broad majority of the Committee has joined the framework established by the Government. In the setting, there are essentially two views of why the change has occurred. Someone thinks it's a coincidence. The rest of us see it as a result of the election. The political parties involved in welfare and community came forward. Those who were betting on the opposite, went back. Erna Solberg's line was rejected in elections. Norway is a country with a diverse geography and a very different population composition in different parts of the country. In Norway, we have had the will to balance differences, and that is not least what we see in the income system. The majority and the Government want a facility for next year's municipal planning that will allow everyone to participate in the welfare growth. The minority tax regime, with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, would have led to only a few municipalities sharing in the growth. In my view, such a policy would have led to increased centralisation. Four years ago it was an dawning municipal uprising. It was stagnation and partial degradation of public welfare. There were many conflict- filled processes that took the focus away from the main thing, namely to provide good care and provide a good school. According to a 2003 KS study, 56 pst decreased. of the municipalities one or more services. The reductions particularly affected two core areas: school and care. Now we see a completely different reality. The reports show that it has gone from cut to reinforcement. The extra money is largely used where they are needed most. In 2006, 16100 more kindergartens were established, a larger increase than ever before. There were 3,900 new annual works in the care sector. There are more young people in secondary education than before, and more people have the first choice. The political change the voters asked for has begun to work. Now there is local choice, and the basis is soon in place, so that you get real local freedom of action. One can look at the possibilities for development in its local environment instead of degradation. Democracy works, direction is reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e177	Let me first begin by congratulating the government parties on taking a major step towards price financing. The funding mechanism for resource-intensive services has been reversed from next year. That's very good. You're going to have a very complicated and unwieldy system, which hits the municipalities fairly randomly, to a system that more closely follows the individual user. The system has a proper entry point and a special feature for the individual municipality, but in principle it is the same as the Progress Party has always worked for in this room, that is, a single price finance, where the costs of the individual user are covered. It's a good promise. The Government Parties will extend this scheme to other types of basic services, so that it may also apply, for example: for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e182	In the three government parties, we are dedicated to seeing people and looking at whether the solutions that we come with are adapted to the reality that is out there. We have a pragmatic relationship with politics to just solve the challenges we are facing. We saw that the resource-requiring service system was not good enough. To find a good solution, we added more funds, 425 million. NOK, and we put in a predictable system. We believe that it was wise and correct in relation to the special group, where an individual can turn out an entire municipal budget. Predictability for municipalities is important, so if they move a strong multi- handicap to their municipality, they know what they are getting. I think it was wise and right that we made that change. But this is not a sign that we want price financing. We're looking at every area, we're thinking practical and wise. I think we have come up with a good solution that ensures the individual, but also gives greater predictability to the municipalities that have many heavy users.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e189	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has made history falsification a sport. He starts writing history consistently in 2006 in terms of the municipality's economy. The government's calculation selection has several times determined that the change in local government's economic development occurred in 2004, and the main reason for this is higher tax input. They also explain developments in 2006 and 2005 in the same way. State Council Åslaug Haga answered my questions in January 2006 that 2004 was the year of historical growth in the municipalities' economy. It is necessary to return to 1997 in order to find a corresponding growth. The reason for that time was that the economy was turned upside down. Battle violence Vedum samples in its article to produce that this development is also due to a government shift in the autumn of 2005. The government's own calculation selection proved it was wrong. What is the representative of the Battle Force Vedum, as the Government's calculation committee does not know in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e198	In the election campaign four years ago, Right went to the elections with the slogan: More left for the money. The focus was very much on efficiency, rationalisation, community mergers, large processes that applied to the structure. This year, the Right has agreed to many of the same comments that the majority have. I'm glad. I think that the right has also seen that the line they led, especially the first few years they put in government, was flawed and created many conflicts and few results. When we took over the government power, it was a completely different economic arrangement from the Bondevik government, than what we decided. We added over NOK 4 billion in our setup in Stortinget, and last year we got a huge boost in the municipal layout, with over NOK 6 billion when the sums were summed up. So it was a change of pace after the big shot, and I think that's what everyone can see if they want to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e203	The Christian People's Party is pleased with every single krone that comes extra to the municipalities for well-being, whether it comes from tax receipts or through framework transfers. Is it not the case that approx. half of the income of municipalities comes from tax revenue? So if tax revenue doesn't increase, and if we don't have a good business that goes well, very much of the municipality's economy won't be improved. I talked to Sandne's municipality, in which I myself live, about the results of the last year. I asked, how can it be that there are better results than in 2006? Well, it was mainly due to the tax revenue that had increased, increased dividends from power companies, and, thirdly, increased framework transfers. Isn't it, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, that we have to include all the factors and a good industrial policy when we boast of the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e210	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e213	This government has allowed the municipalities to keep the tax growth, precisely because we think it is so important that the municipalities get a growth, and they can do the important tasks they have. That's why they've got to keep the tax revenue. You could choose to do the opposite, but thanks to the political will, we have not done so, because we want to strengthen the community. In addition, we have chosen to increase the framework transfers to the municipal sector. It is also part of this year's municipal proposal that more efforts be made to increase the framework transfers, precisely in order to have a good distribution effect, so that all municipalities will share in the growth of wealth, not only those with tax-intensive inhabitants. So in total we've done two things: we've increased the framework transfers, and then we've let the municipal sector keep the tax growth. It is a political choice that needs to be made, and we have done so, because we want to strengthen well-being. We see that today's results, and I'm glad that the Christian People's Party also sees is a good and sensible policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e221	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e224	Now that we're dealing with the municipality proposition for 2008, we can start to see a lot of the whole of the policy of the red-green government. The majority government has contributed to raising the public sector economy. With regard to the financial structure of municipalities and counties in 2008, the Government is still adding up to a real growth in the total income. This growth facilitates the continuation of positive developments in municipalities. As of 2005, revenue in the general government sector has actually increased by 8 pst. The government has made a clear commitment to welfare solutions, and it is gratifying that we are now beginning to talk about quality over quantity. The Government aims to support and further develop COSTRA as a tool for further quality development. It is satisfactory for the Workers' Party. There are several challenges and tasks that we are concerned with. The Workers' Party is working with the Soria Moria Declaration. For this reason, further notice is given on bets and focus areas in the municipality proposal for 2008. We're busy looking at both what we're getting, and what we haven't been able to get so far. A short-term challenge is the demographic development of county municipalities, which has a significant increase in the number of 16- to 18-year-olds in secondary schools. This we hope to ensure through the fact that the county councils will receive a slightly higher percentage increase in free income than the municipalities next year. First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased to be able to track a quite clear bet on children and young people in the proposition. The kindergarten bet is, of course, maintained. There we are targeted, and full kindergarten coverage is in sight. Further work is also being done to include childcare facilities in the framework funding, and this reform is a major task. These are many thousands of children who will have the right place, they will be able to expect quality, and they will have predictability. When kindergartens are transferred to municipalities, it is important that we have dialogue in focus, so that the transition can be as smooth as possible. Then it's school bet. We still need more years of teaching, and this is what we're doing. The figures are on the way up, with 600 new annual works in 2006. When we're working to create greater security and more activity in school, we also have to make sure that the children get good guidance and safe adults around them. It is therefore gratifying that the government is trying an extended school day. It's a step in the right direction. We need students to get a greater benefit from school day. A strengthening of real science, homework and physical activity hope we will deliver results. A first-rate education is currently only organised for three hours, while the daily life averages six hours with the SFO. We believe that this is untapped opportunities for students and active six-year-olds. The proposition also shows that it is important for the Government that we focus on children’s health and development. Last year, the Communication entitled "Recipe for a healthier diet", a message that all government members with their respective departments have signed to contribute to healthful care for children and young people. I am very pleased that we are introducing a fruit and vegetable regime from next year. It may help more people to approach these ‘five a day’, and I personally feel it as a quality promise for the public school. First of all, we put it in high school. It is in order to give the municipalities some time to find good solutions so that it can include the infant in a little while. I also have to mention briefly that the Committee wants the Government to continue its work on finding a loan scheme for the upgrading of school buildings – so it will be a continuation. Despite increased income for municipalities in recent years, there is still a bias in the distribution that is justified by factors in the income system. The Sørheim committee is reduced, and it is important that we leave the selection to work. In this way, we can get an overall assessment of how we can manage the municipalities that come out the worst, for example. my municipality in Vestfold. This is a very complicated system of many factors, but we are eager to find better solutions than we have today. The Labour Party continues to work towards the Soria Moria Declaration, and the goal in 2009 – as the Council of State has also stated – is to say that there is a balance between tasks and resources. It could have been nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e247	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e250	The representative Kosmo did not come into the care of the elderly. When the Workers' Party came into government position, they promised that they would see to it that we had an elderly care that shined, and that it would be a national, priority target. Now we have read in the municipal bill that resource-intensive services should also be a national priority area for the government parties, and that from that point of view, they have provided earmarked funding for this. The setting reads as follows: ‘However, the majority agree that designation is to some extent to be used as a management tool to achieve national priority objectives.’ Then is my question to the representative Kosmo: Will the Workers' Party also use earmarked funding to achieve the goal of an elderly care that shines?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e260	In the case of framework transfers in general, the Progress Party also knows that the Workers' Party is in order for local politicians themselves to have the most control of income. As far as care for the elderly is concerned, I believe that the strengthening of the municipal economy we have done in the period now has contributed to the fact that the conditions have been completely different in the care of the elderly. We can refer to several annual works, and as far as further development is concerned, I think we will be able to see more quality-oriented actions in the future. We have started to talk about user management in its own rows in the case of home help services etc. I have great faith that the care of the elderly is well taken care of by our local politicians. Parenting will also be a topical issue for us in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e267	The representative also said nothing about the municipal structure. But Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg did that a year ago. Then he said, ‘Freedom will be stronger if local politicians at least show a willingness to unravel mergers’. And he went on to say, to the Municipal Report: ‘To me, it is obvious that the municipal structure that was right before is not necessarily right in the future. Changes in technology, infrastructure and demography mean that we must constantly show willingness to change and have a dynamic approach to the debate on local borders.’ This is what the Prime Minister believes. That's what he said. Nevertheless, the Government is now withdrawing the grant introduced by the Bondevik II Government to stimulate voluntary municipal associations. A good process was initiated by our government, but now it's over. With the Prime Minister's position, is it wise policy when the Government now removes the financial incentive that could make the municipalities consider changing the municipal boundaries voluntarily?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e282	The proposal refers to a very small voluntary activity on the part of municipalities in applying for these funds. We are engaged in quite major structural changes also in the regional debate – through the administrative reform. I am personally still very concerned that the mergers should be voluntary, and that it should be natural for the municipalities to seek cooperation elsewhere. Intercommunal companies and their development through many issues we have dealt with in the Committee earlier this year show that municipalities are just looking for good, effective solutions for their citizens. I don't think aggregations are always the right solution. I think it has to be up to the municipalities themselves to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e291	The government has promised a stepping-up plan for the local economy, but it announced an increase of DKK 1.5 billion to DKK 1.75 billion will cover only the increased costs of population development, which the representative had in mind in his contribution. According to what KS said in the hearing, this status quo means in the local economy. The high level will keep going, but there's no stepping up. My question is, simply and simply: where is it from the promises of a stepping-up plan, and where is it from the means of maintenance, to fill the swimming pools with water, etc. – the entry that you will never be able to cover before it becomes a escalator?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e298	I do not agree with the description of the representative, that there has been no escalation. As the economy has evolved, as I mentioned in my post, it has also been a real growth of 8 pst. in the municipalities. I think it's good. At the same time, we should focus on continuing to work, so that the public sector does not get back on track. I believe that when we focus on our core areas, on welfare solutions, this government has a good starting point in the Soria Moria declaration. We're targeted there. I also believe that the representative of the Christian People's Party has seen that this works, since we have reached such a consensus in relation to the municipal proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e307	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e310	The progress party has a different municipal policy starting point from that of the other parties. Policy is at the heart of increasing individual freedom of action by limiting public intervention and restrictions. Therefore, the public should not take on tasks that individuals, businesses or individuals can do as well – or better. I would like to stress that the role of local and local democracy is to ensure the individual freedom of choice and the ability to influence more fully decisions relating to themselves. At the same time, I see that because of, among other things, economies of scale are appropriate for some clearly defined public tasks to be addressed and financed by the State. The Progress Party believes that local self-determination ensures proximity to decisions, participation for the inhabitants and living democracy. I believe that municipalities should have the necessary freedom to facilitate growth and growth in wealth. I would like to point out that economic growth and wealth growth are an ongoing process in which Norway also participates, and that this process increases the individual's opportunities and freedom of action. I believe that today's income system allows municipalities that facilitate business and net entry to retain only a small proportion of the revenue that they can generate. Me and the Progress Party are concerned that it does not give the municipalities strong enough incentives to pursue a local policy that is at the best for the inhabitants of the municipalities and for the country as a whole. Many have seen the benefits of competition in a number of other areas and see a great potential if municipalities are similarly competing to attract business and skilled citizens. Today's system leads to too much redistribution to individual municipalities at the expense of others. I would like to express scepticism about the government's lack of measures to improve efficiency and modernise the municipal sector. I would also point out that an efficiency improvement of 1 pst. in the municipal sector, around DKK 2.4 billion will be released, which can be used for even better services. If you had an efficiency improvement of 2 pst., you would even have received 4.4 billion kroner, and you could have dropped property taxes in the municipalities. I would like to stress that although the local government sector now has a good foundation, it faces major challenges in the future. I find that there is still a long way to go until an elderly care centre that shines, none of the previous speakers from the government parties have been involved. Elder care in Norway has been under constant debate since the 1980s. Local authorities' responsibility for the care of the elderly is very different from that of the municipality. Alternative governments have presented plans, action plans and proposals for changes, but the situation in the care of the elderly and the criticism of municipal provision have not changed significantly. Increased allocations to municipalities, which are subject to the priorities of local authorities and administrations, do not lead to a commitment to care for the elderly. I think it is a great paradox that the world's richest country, with the self-confidence of a welfare state that all other countries seem to be looking up to, still has a steady media coverage of major problems and miserable old age care conditions. The Progress Party wants to strengthen the economy of municipalities, and believes that there is a particular need for increased efforts in the care of the elderly. The strength of approx. $1.5 billion of the government's free revenues are scarcely sufficient to cover the 1.5 billion that the government itself claims to have to cover the costs of demographic development if the average cost of service production is to be kept constant. I note that there is still a long way to go until an elderly care centre that shines, as I said earlier. I would like to refer to the comprehensive and comprehensive proposals of the Progress Party with a total of 19 concrete actions that should be implemented and that will raise the elderly at the level that they should be at in Norway. The Progress Party believes that there is a need to add DKK 1 billion more to the municipalities in 2008 than the Government provides, and will earmark parts of the municipality's revenue weight in 2008 for basic welfare services. That is why I had hoped that the government would also see opportunities there, as they do with resource-intensive services – that they would go in and out and think that this would also be national, priority objectives. It is precisely the care of the elderly that should have been promised. I would like to refer to the proposal of the representative of the Progress Party to repeal the Property Tax Act. I am of the opinion that property taxes are an unfortunate form of double taxation that affects people very badly, and that people have already paid taxes on the money they spend to invest in housing. I want to show that many people have large mortgages, and they therefore end up paying property taxes on a property owned by the bank. I would like to point out that the government's policy towards users of resource-intensive services has clear weaknesses. Firstly, it provides a low coverage of the real costs of municipalities to users with a high need for help, while encouraging municipalities to use hospitalised areas for the treatment of users with special needs — it is because in most parts of the country, hospitalization places cost less than DKK 770,000, approximately. NOK 575000. I would like to show that for each municipality it can be about annual appropriations of 2-3 million. kr per. users, which will give rise to a major impact on the economic balance of municipalities. The ideal model is that the state ensures 100 pst. financing of the needs of users with specific needs. With the model of the Progress Party, the debate on different funding models would be completely redundant, as it would fully satisfy the real needs of users. Until price financing is introduced, we will deal with today's system and want to lower the entry point of the funding mechanism for users with special needs to DKK 400000 per year. use, and modify the scheme in such a way that the expenditure of each municipality beyond the point of entry is taken as the basis for the state compensation, through a lowered entry point and an increase in coverage. I would like to show that the Progress Party, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party – i.e. the present government parties – had such a funding model. I am very disappointed that the government parties do not follow up on what they promised when they themselves were in opposition. In other words, the Progress Party is alone on this model. In conclusion, I believe that the focus in child protection must be on the first line service. The funding of training in child protection institutions should be seen in the context of this focus. Funding via county municipalities is a detour and less appropriate. I look with concern at the poor implementation of the child protection reform in the last year. The consultation of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge showed that the reform was probably poorly prepared, and the economic need was underestimated. For several years, the Progress Party has pointed out that the annual increase in this chapter does not appear to have strengthened the first line work in the field of child protection, despite the fact that part of the intention to transfer the administration of child protection from the county to the state was just to gain better governance and financial control over child protection. The Progress Party is initially very critical of the inclusion of several earmarked grants in the ordinary framework grant. The conversion of several earmarked grants is not advisable within the current income system. The argument that inclusion is based on an assumption that local politicians know best to prioritise correctly is very descriptive, precisely because actions that fall outside the scope of designation will be set up against other important but unfortunately underfunded tasks. This means that when the earmarked grant is transferred to the framework funding, these institutions must compete for the crowns of other important offers, with the result that one of the offers will lose the battle for the crowns. I note that this has already happened in several municipalities, and that the freedom the Government has announced that the municipalities are now getting is actually a false freedom. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e351	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e356	Earlier this year, the Progress Party went out with its policy on the organisation of the SFO. SFO is described as a leisure offer that the Advance Party believes parents have to take responsibility for themselves. Today, SFO offers parents supervision of the children in what I want to call the core working hours – between 1 p.m. 7 o'clock and 7 o'clock 17. Could the representative Ib Thomsen briefly describe how the Progress Party has intended to organise the new parental-driven offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e361	The scheme of the SFO is ready for the benefit of the child. If you want to develop the SFO in the future, I believe that all the parties on the Stortinget should and must be involved. It's an additional offer for the school. In my view and in the view of the Progress Party, it should not be a school but an additional achievement. The financing of the SFO takes place through the municipalities, in cooperation with the parents. The Progress Party has said that we want the schools to be governed by the parents – so you have to have a board of parents, teachers and school management. In the same way, we believe that the SFO should be controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e366	The representative of the Advance Party was concerned with the care of the elderly, and it is a very important matter, which the Christian People's Party is also concerned about. But does not the Progress Party see that the greatest challenge in the care of the elderly in the coming years is labour? It does not help to set aside an extra DKK 1 billion for municipalities if there are no people – some hands and some heads – who can take care of the care services provided by municipalities. There is therefore a lack of coherence in the policy of the Progress Party. I can't see at any point that a person speaks positively about work immigration or other offensive measures that will help to get enough hands and heads to provide a decent care for the elderly. My question is: what is the answer to the challenge of health and care labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e375	I heard that the representative said there was no connection in the old-age policy of the Progress Party. I am very disappointed, especially when the Progress Party has put forward a comprehensive proposal with just 19 concrete measures that should be implemented to increase care for the elderly in the country. There is no doubt that the municipalities are underfunded in relation to the tasks they are assigned by the state, especially if we are to have an elderly care that shines, as both the Prime Minister and the government parties have promised. I think we have to initially finance the system the way we want it to be, before we start criticizing other parties because there's no connection in their policies. In any case, I think the representative should read the 19 specific points of the Progress Party in the field of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e382	In Norway, we have a long tradition of cohesion, and we have had a willingness to use policies to balance differences. In his post, the representative Thomsen says that today's system leads to too much redistribution between municipalities. So Thomsen is dealing with the opposite of equalization. Did I understand Thomsen right in what he said, that he believes it is wrong that there is a balance between the municipalities in Norway, so that you get the same service throughout the country? Does Thomsen think it would have been better if, for example, All Akershus municipalities had more tax growth, while other municipalities had been cut off in their welfare services? So is that the opposite of balance Thomsen is calling for? Does he think it's wrong to redistribute, and does he think that those who have a lot already will get even more? Is that what the Progress Party is responding to the challenges of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e389	To that I will reply that the municipal committee has been travelling around the country and visited some county municipalities and some municipalities. When you get to the individual municipalities, you understand that they feel that there is a division of funds. Of the signals we get from the municipalities today, it doesn't seem that the Central Party recipe works completely. The last thing we can see here is about exactly this with the funding of resource-intensive services and users. Here you can see that there was a completely biased distribution, and you almost chose to designate the funds for this service. So yes, more attention should be given to municipalities and ensure that services are maintained in relation to the national priority objectives that should be set.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e396	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e399	Before I forget, I would like to address the suggestions that the Right is on – and promotes – in the vote. We can also say this year that the distance between the parties in terms of the economic space of the municipalities is minimal. In its alternative state budget, the right is going to put on a scheme that gives municipalities an economic freedom of action at about the same level as the government. In addition to the exceptional growth in municipal tax revenue in 2006, the economic growth of municipalities in 2007 and the scheme proposed by the Government for 2008 is a very sobering one. In fact, this means a reduction in free income in the current year. This confirms the Government's calculation selection, which in its April report states – and I quote: ‘Calculated against the adjusted level of revenue for 2006 is estimated to reduce free revenues from 2006 to 2007.’» The reason for this – and now I have to ask the representative Tryve Schlagsvold Vedum to listen extra carefully – is that the government did not continue the extraordinary tax revenues that came in 2006, but included a significant part of this in the 2007 scheme. The scheme for 2008 is in line with population developments. The central association of municipalities has been very clear about this in the hearings with the committee, and it is also possible to read it out of the proposition. It is true that the revenues of municipalities have grown annually since 2004, with a peak in 2006. But from this year to next year, this has flattened out. Government parties will soon have to stop believing that they are still in 2006. When we also have an arrangement this year at the level of the Government, it is very special to listen to the two previous speakers from the government parties. So I could have chosen to give a rosy representation of the development of the local economy like these, because the right has supported the same arrangement. But what would the purpose of that be? It'll just undermine local democracy. We now actually have a government that has reached half the course of its reign. When they are put in charge of problems in society, they have fixed, rehearsed answers — no matter what. The only answer is that the municipality's economy has improved, so the municipalities should sort it out. The second answer is that they owe the previous government. A government that is only four years old, and thus has already reached halfway, must stop blaming others and grow up enough to take responsibility for itself. It is no longer useful to blame the previous government, and it is no longer useful to blame the country's local politicians. This municipal proposal is completely out of the question of responding to the new challenges posed by municipalities. Local authorities are now experiencing the price of an increasing interest rate, they are experiencing that they are not getting access to the most important jobs, that wages are increasing, and they feel that they are not being helped by the Government to improve the quality of service provision. I think many rapporteurs reacted with disbelief as the last day's business yesterday, where the KS Director believes that increased interest rates are not problematic for municipalities. Many municipalities experience, on the contrary, that increased interest rates eat up their ability to provide better services. If in 2008 interest rates increase by 2 percentage points, yes, then the whole growth in the free income of Kommune-Norway has eaten up. It's not least the challenge of lack of people to solve the problems that drive interest. This problem has a double impact on municipalities. They must compete with highly paid companies. I think many municipalities are now afraid that the whole core competence of e.g. the construction works office shall disappear to the construction industry. Then both parties have a big problem. It does not help Rogaland County that they have the economy to build a new high school to be prepared for all the new 16-year-olds who are now going to start school, when not a single company was interested in offering to build such a school in the Awake in Sandnes. The latest NAV labour market report indicates that there are 88 000 uncovered annual works in the years ahead, while there are 47 000 registered unemployed. The right has repeatedly put forward proposals specifically aimed at Kommune-Norway to do something about this situation. Many of the 700,000 who today live out of social security want to work more. The right has proposed this, and the Government has rejected it. The right has made proposals that would make it profitable for the country’s spread pensioners to work – the government has voted against. The right has suggested that people who want to work for several years should have the opportunity to do so – the government has voted against it. Right-wing promote today in a later case eleven proposals to make it easier to get to Norway if you have a job – Government votes against. The government must take responsibility for this situation. We don't have time or money to wait for a big message in 2008. If we are unable to solve these problems nationally, local authorities will not be able to create more knowledge in schools locally, more quality of care or safe and pleasant communities. Therefore, the Government must now stop blaming local politicians and take responsibility for the problems they create for the municipalities. Today, the right-wing party, together with the Progress Party, is promoting proposals for a stepping-up plan to extend the school day in primary school. The right will develop a full-day knowledge school consisting of six clock hours in childhood and seven clock hours in childhood, with a voluntary school leave in the early and late hours of school. Such an increase in the number of hours must take place gradually, as we are able to recruit more teachers and continue to increase the level of competence of teachers. That is why we need an escalation plan, as we are proposing today. The government does not take this challenge seriously in the municipalities. In future care services, citizens must be met with care, respect and knowledge. It gives municipalities enormous responsibility, because while we require better services, the number of elderly people in need of care will double over the next 35 years. At the same time, there has been a doubling of the number of younger caregivers in the last ten years. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left therefore invited the government parties to develop a binding economic action plan to upgrade the care services. The government accepted no, and thus the municipalities do not have the necessary predictability to meet these enormous challenges. On the right, 35 proposals have been made that would make it easier for municipalities to get access to knowledge-rich and caring staff to meet these challenges – the government said no. Care and respect are also about letting people continue to control their lives. We can't meet people with an attitude that everyone should be involved in the same A4 solutions. It is this freedom of choice in care – who will come into your home to help you with the most intimate needs. Then it is not a question of which logo is on the jacket, but whether you as a citizen feel secure that the job to be done is done in a proper way. We now have a government that has made it a goal to fight against the municipalities that have chosen to meet the inhabitants with respect for their own choices. Today we can read in the Evening Post about Kjell A. Wahl who had to fight for years to get a personal assistant. A new report reveals that the worst offer is for people with severe disabilities. It is now almost two years since the government took responsibility, and on the desktop there was a clear draft of the law of the right to personal assistant. Nothing's done. When Kjell A. Wahl is asked what is a tough party, he says, "A home, and getting to wash and get food, is not enough for a decent life. We also need new impulses, social contacts, an exhibition and concerts." The right to personal assistant is about regaining power in his own life. The right has confidence that local politicians are best placed to find the best solutions locally. They are best suited to prioritisation between school and care, culture and business development. But if they are to succeed, they need room of action and trust. It is not money that provides care, but competent people with care. It's not money that gives knowledge, but nice and committed teachers. It's not money that gives community security, it's neighbors that care about each other and take care of each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e442	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he himself has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e447	It appears from the opinion that the Party of Progress, the Right and the Left consider that ethics in the municipal sector is largely concerned with the organisation of the sector and that transparency, free competition and a level playing field for private and municipal activities are essential. My questions are: Is the Right absolutely certain that only competition is free enough, will ethics be improved? I think the right is that the ethics per. definition is better in private than in public? And: Can Right tell me how the ethics – e.g. in relation to compliance with the Health and Safety at Work Act, etc. – are municipal tasks better addressed in response to calls for tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e455	Being open and competitive is one of the main concerns. that society as a whole is given insight into what the municipality is doing. The fact that you don't have one, for example. open tenders, low limits on open tenders, facilitates a culture where acquaintance and friendship lead the municipality. One must be aware that around the country it is very often the municipality that is the largest contracting entity, and is such that one or two people in the municipality decide a great deal for individual companies, there is a great danger that friendship and acquaintance will be the leading thing. Therefore, the Right has promoted a number of proposals together with the opposition parties, which enable other companies, society as a whole and the media to understand these processes. We are very disappointed that the Government is not willing to support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e462	It was a little bit of a strange post. It was a continuous attack on everything that was wrong in the municipal sector – absolutely everything was wrong. It was strange because this comes from a representative of the party that had the previous municipal minister. No matter how you turn it around, it's not more than two years ago. I'm not going to owe the last government, that's not my point, but it was after all the one who was responsible for this sector two years ago – and now everything is absolutely wrong. This is not credible. I want to turn to a concrete question, and it is about understanding the economic growth that has been in the municipal sector. I agree with the representative, Höie, that half of the growth that municipalities have experienced in recent years comes from increased tax revenues, for which we are not going to take credit. I won't try to do that. But my basic question is: Does the representative Höie agree that approx. Half of the growth in the municipal sector in recent years is the result of increased transfers from the state, compared with 2005, when the previous government was responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e471	National transfers from 2001 onwards have been largely influenced by the State’s contribution to keeping democratic developments. What has enabled municipalities to improve the quality of their services from 2004 onwards are the increased tax revenues. That means that the municipal structure that Åslaug Haga has presented for this year and for the next year can be compared very well with the municipal structure that Erna Solberg provided for all four years as the Council of State. The only difference was that when the Right took over in 2001, the country's economy was shaken by Jens Stoltenberg. Jens Stoltenberg now has good drag help from Kristin Halvorsen to once again put the country over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e476	Norway’s overcoming was a strange remark, but I would like to take responsibility for the ‘government’ that is about to take place in the municipal sector, which is very good. We've had two good municipal arrangements since we got the power, and I'm proud of what we've got. We in the government parties have faith in cohesion and modernisation – the right obviously cannot have it. We have a desire to have broadband coverage across the country. In the setting, the Right does not want to bet on broadband, for some strange reason that I want to get answers to now. They don't want to go into the broadband comments we have in relation to making sure that everyone in any place of residence has broadband coverage. It's one of the most important things to do, just to modernise the public sector and provide opportunities for growth and development in all parts of the country, which I thought Right also agreed with. I'm surprised that Right, who had a district profile once in a while, doesn't want to be on the broadband bet that this government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e483	This must be due to a misunderstanding, because in that chapter, the Right in the beginning writes that we refer to our comments on the revised national budget. This is a question addressed in the context of the revised national budget, which supports the right-wing initiative on broadband. What is special is that we are now in a situation where the debate has been so far marked by the fact that the government parties give a rosy presentation of the situation in Municipality-Norway. We agree that Kommune-Norge has had a good economic development since 2004, but the situation in Kommune-Norge is not rosy. Many municipalities are experiencing major new challenges. It is quite remarkable that no representative from the government parties has so far been willing to point to the new challenges of the municipalities, resulting from the government's lack of policy to meet challenges related to the labour market situation, the challenges associated with the development of interest rates, and the challenges associated with improving the quality of school and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e490	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e493	History is not a simple subject. Especially hard it will be when whoever's a central actor in history is going to write his own story. The former government parties need to write a story that is less unpleasant than it would otherwise have been. The question is, When did the improvements in local government finances start? 2004 is the year it was lit, according to the previous government parties. The parameter is the net operating surplus. Such a storyteller is limping in several areas. Net operating profit does not say anything about the service offer. This is a poor parameter for the economic situation in the municipal sector. We can agree that the improvements in net operating performance, which have come in recent years — and which started in 2004, are correct — are due to two factors: the municipalities needed some time to adapt to lower incomes, which they had been exposed to in the period up to 2004. They needed to reduce their level of activity and remove jobs. And then it went through forcefully in 2004, and the municipalities got increased tax revenue from 2004 and beyond. If we look at the years 2006 and 2007, as well as what it was set up in 2008, municipalities will have increased revenues of 20 billion kroner. About half of this is due to increased tax revenue, while the remaining are increased transfers from the country. I think we can agree that this is the case. In general, there is a correct description of the situation. Besides that, we don't need to boast about anything but that we have increased transfers. Half of the improvements made are due to increased transfers. It's very good, and it's been absolutely crucial for the local government sector. From 2008, we suggest that municipalities receive compensation for increased demographic costs, by adding 425 million. kr in the case of cost-intensive services, etc. If we assume that the tax rates in 2008 will remain unchanged – that is what we will come back to in the State budget – I believe that it will facilitate increased tax revenue in 2008, if economic developments continue as at least forecasters suggest. So 2008 can also be a good year for the municipal sector. I would also like to stress – as the Committee also says – that in the case of demographic costs, which we propose to compensate for, the county councils, which will have the largest expenditure, because that is where the largest part comes, will have a share that is proportionate to the increased costs. It's important to underline. I expect the department to take it with me. Early in the 1990s, American economist John Galbraith wrote a book entitled "The Satisfied Majority". This was a book that took a huge deal with the policy that was pursued under Margaret Thatcher and George Bush, the elderly, in the United States. Liberalism, which began in the 1980s, has continued, and we have lived on with it. For the satisfied majority, the lack of housing that we have and have had in this country is certainly not urgent. Housing policy has suffered many decades of neglect. It is time that a real boost is taken in relation to housing policy. I sincerely hope that 2008 will be the year when we are raising the social housing policy. The answers to housing policy lie in the interaction between municipalities, the House Bank and the housing co-operation. There is the answer, and in 2008 we have to be able to raise these questions and obtain housing, rentals, etc., so that we can resolve the lack of housing so that the 5,000 people who do not live in this country can get housing. Taking this promise will be one of the biggest challenges in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e513	The Progress Party has been up-dated over time, and especially in the debates we have had in Stortinget in connection with the City Proposition, because we want unit-price financing, because we want the money to follow the individual user, in order to ensure good, predictable framework conditions and justice in terms of services. The Government has now introduced a shift in resource-intensive services, a system that is beginning to look more and more like the Progress Party's piece-price financing. In fact, there is too high an entry point, and the level of coverage for the state is too low, but in principle we are talking about a similar system, where the money follows the individual user. I hope it signals that it will end the criticism the Progress Party has always received for the piece price financing, because it is obvious that the Government is thinking in that direction. Has SV recognised that a system where the money follows the individual user is a much fairer and predictable system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e522	I record that the Progress Party is asking the same question all the time to the government parties. This was a topic that I did not touch on in my post, but I am still going to take the opportunity to comment on it, as I am being asked about it. The change we're making in resource-requiring services is not a change in system. Also today we have a system for... – I don't want the representative to shake his head, because you shouldn't stand and shake my head when I try to give an answer, even though it's a technique that he's learned from Carl I. Hagen. – Today, too, we have a system of compensation for particularly resource-intensive services. We're increasing the point of impact, that's far from right, and we're also increasing the degree of compensation from 70 pst. to 85 pst. In this way, we better hit the municipalities that have the biggest costs. So this is an improvement on today's system, not a new system. If the Progress Party has not understood this, they have not followed in the hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e529	Rolf Reikvam spent a lot of time writing his story in his article. Now I want to look at SV and SV's history. At the SV national meeting, the party leader and finance minister Kristin Halvorsen were concerned that the municipalities had not spent enough money at school and more teachers. In her national meeting talk, she said, among other things. that, unfortunately, the knowledge is not equally evenly distributed across the political landscape. She went on to say, ‘Education is so important that we need to ensure that schools get a share in economic growth. If not, the discussion of increased government governance of the sector will be needed.» That was her word. This concerns us in the Right a little bit, because we do not expect the Minister of Finance to come with empty promises or empty threats. However, we are wondering how SV will implement the changes if developments continue. As far as I can see, it must be either by introducing earmarked funds or by changing the law. What is Rolf Rikvam want the government to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e542	Bets in school, increasing teacher density, more teachers and more hours are a state responsibility. There are things that we're concerned about to strengthen the content of school. We see that some municipalities give priority to education and school higher than others, and that some do not give priority to education as much as we would like. It's part of local self-government, which we accept. I feel reasonably confident that with the increased transfers and with the increased tax revenues that the municipalities will receive in the future, we will have increased investment in education as well – a commitment that is proportionate to what our ambitions are and what we want. So I feel reasonably confident that municipal democracy works without more state control, designation or anything like that. Although it has not been completely as we would like, I feel reasonably confident that the municipalities will be investing in education and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e547	The representative pointed out that there are both increased tax revenues and increased framework transfers that have put us in the situation that there is a positive development in the municipal sector and it started in 2004. All this is the Christian People's Party's agreement. It's about being honest with history. It began in the previous magnification period, still has in this, and the Christian People's Party is happy for every single crown. What's the big challenge of such a escalation is that you're also realistic in the future. What's this about? Well, it's about not creating expectations you can't meet. When it comes to both taking into account all the increased costs of demographic development — i.e. the increased costs of population development — and strengthening staffing in hospitals, schools, etc. You don't get a credibility problem, do you? Isn't it a question of how much you can do for the increased costs? I've heard the KS say it's the status quo. Does SV agree that there is no further escalation – you can't get new things – and that there is the status quo for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e554	If we look at what's in the proposition now, I agree with the representative that it's essentially the status quo. There are some minor improvements to compensate for increased costs as a result of increased expenditure, as a consequence of changing population composition, etc. That's correct enough, but then some of us expect economic growth to continue into 2008. I think that's a good reason to expect a relatively strong tax increase in 2008 as well, compared to 2007. I am absolutely sure that there is a relatively strong growth for the local government sector in this budget, by combining increased tax growth as a consequence of economic growth and that the state, through its transfers, compensates for increased expenditure, which is the result of increased costs for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e561	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e564	The government announced in the municipal bill for 2008 that it would continue a high level of transfers to the municipalities. But the government doesn't step up any further. There is an increase of between DKK 1.5 billion and DKK 1.75 billion in the free income. There is no more means than is strictly necessary to meet the growing needs resulting from demographic developments, which have become more common today. There are more older and more high school students. In addition, expenditure will include: NAV reform and municipal councils for the disabled. This is a continuation of today's level, not an escalation, as we've been suggested. If the Government is to achieve the stated objective of achieving a total of 2000 more annual shifts in care and care, the municipal economy will become more pressing next year. That being said, the Christian People's Party is pleased with every single crown that is transferred to the municipalities. In our 2008 alternative budget, we want to put ourselves at least the same level as the government parties. Municipalities are the main provider of basic welfare services in society. Freedom of movement and predictability are important if municipalities are to deliver the best they can to the inhabitants. It is important that the state governs most through frameworks and least through ringings. Then freedom of action and local democracy are strengthened. Then we show that we have confidence in our local politicians, for example. in Sandnes and Gésdal, can make good decisions and prioritize just as well as we are at the heart of Oslo. I would like to remind the government parties that the municipality's economy has improved annually since 2004. It appears that government parties, with few exceptions, consistently start writing history from 2006 and give a false picture of the cause of the improvement in the municipality’s economy. There must be a match between the tasks and expectations imposed on the municipalities and the funds transferred from the state to the municipalities. I note that the Government has not yet promoted the long-term and binding plan of escalation that was promised. Maybe the Council of State can answer where it's going to be? It is also necessary that we not only focus on increasing the number of jobs. We need strategies to manage recruiting new skilled workers, both in the care of the elderly and in the school and kindergarten sectors. We need labour immigration, and then we must not hesitate to promote a policy that promotes labour migration. The government proposes a new and better funding model for resource-intensive services from 2008, as the Christian People's Party has done in its alternative budget for the current year. Strengthen the scheme by 425 million. kr. That's good. So the proportion of local authorities is reduced from 30 to 15 pst. This is joyous, and something that a collective municipal committee in Stortinget has called for. It is also proposed to amend the regulatory framework for the high-level funding scheme for resource-intensive services, so that the housing-stimulating specific grant granted to some refugees with severe disabilities or behavioural disabilities is not deducted when measuring grants. It's about those refugees no one wants to live in. This grant is equivalent to up to NOK 700000 per year. per user years up to five years. The Christian People's Party is pleased with such a system, which could stimulate the faster settlement of this difficult and vulnerable group of refugees. The Council of State has probably noticed the concerns of the last few weeks about today’s financing mechanism for Norwegian training for immigrants. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee, all except the Advancement Party, believes that it is important that it is given well, adapted to Norwegian training, and in comments the Government asks for review of today's funding mechanism, so that all aspects of the scheme are evaluated. If we really believe that Norwegian training for immigrants is a prerequisite for good integration, we have to make sure that this scheme gets better and not worse in the time to come. Finally, I will refer to the vote and take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e583	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e588	The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Left, has a note that says that the state should govern through a framework, in which case the freedom of action and local democracy are strengthened. The Christian People's Party also supports the government parties in mainstreaming earmarked grants. Kindergartens with their billions of dollars can be incorporated, but the grant for cohabitation measures with about 10 million dollars. kr shall not be added to the framework grant, according to the Christian People's Party. Can the representative Tørresdal tell why the Christian People's Party has so little confidence in local politicians in this area, and what principle underpinning their departure from the framework grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e595	Yes, the Christian People's Party will be happy to answer that. The Christian People's Party is also involved in a note, along with the government parties, that in the case of new arrangements, it is important to have an eartag that has started well with them, until they are up and going and have been introduced into all municipalities. Lifelong learning is a pilot project in individual municipalities in Norway. When we have come so far that we offer a life course in all municipalities, we want to include it in the framework. This is at the project stage for now. We want it in all municipalities, and then we are going for a framework funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e602	The Christian People's Party's reasoning on labour immigration must obviously be based on an end of thought. It is assumed that there will be an increase in the number of older people in the population, and so it will remain in the long term, a situation where the demographic composition in Norway will change and remain stable. This means that if you are going to use labour immigration to address these challenges, you will have to go back and forth again and again, and this also increases the need, when these people get older, for additional services in their older lives. One cannot build the solutions on labour immigration here. The impact of the economy must be taken into account, and not least the market must be used and the pricing of these services must be used to recruit more people into the care profession. Then the question is, is it that the Christian People's Party wants to push the salaries of nurses and help nurses? Is it not the case that by increasing the migration of labour by auxiliary nurses and nurses, it will de facto keep the wage level down?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e611	I just want to repeat that it is not only the Christian People's Party, but also the NHO and most political parties in this Chamber who see that we need labour immigration to meet the challenges of the demographic development we have in our country. In order for there to be enough people both in private business and in public welfare, we need more people who can participate and help build our country further. That is why we are putting up with offensive policies to attract labour, rather young workers. It will meet part of what the representative was in. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has proposed on one matter later today that we give foreign students studying in Norway an opportunity to get a work permit for up to five years in connection with the studies. They will then be further qualified before returning home, and they will be able to contribute labour to our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e618	In the municipal bill four years ago, the compensation scheme came for resource-intensive users. Then the previous government weakened the arrangement when they went off, and now we're straightening out, so that the arrangement gets stronger than it was before. Let's add 425 million. kr. It gives more free money. You have to include that in your history when you say that there will be no more free money for the local government sector. Then I will make a little correction to the history of the Christian People's Party, and I will read the words of the Christian People's Party's own rapporteur in Tysnes: ‘I have major problems defending much of the government. A leader cannot continue as a spokesman when he or she cannot defend his or her own government.' He went on to say: ‘District policy, transport policy and everything related to the local economy make me unwell.’ Does the representative Tørresdal think that the Christian People's Party's own rapporteurs gave a distorted picture of the situation when you were in power, or does the representative Tørresdal now think that they gave a right picture, that it is good that there has been a change in the local economy, and that it is again possible to run a good care and get a good school policy around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e636	All speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e639	First, I have to say that the situation in 2003, i.e. four years ago, was much more difficult for the municipal sector. There was a lower tax intake, higher pension costs – overall, there was a more difficult situation, and there was a need for escalation. There, the Christian People's Party fully agrees with the rapporteur that it was unsustainable if you did not get a stepping up of the local economy. One knows that this negative trend reversed in 2004, and the Christian People's Party is very pleased that both have increased the framework and have allowed municipalities to retain most of the increased tax intake. I fully agree that the situation was unsustainable in many municipalities, and that it was not necessarily the greatest understanding of this at a central level. The Christian People's Party has become very aware of the situation in Norwegian municipalities and is pleased that it has now changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e644	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e647	I'll start by commending the Government for three things in this proposition. It is the Top Funding Scheme for Resource-Required Services, the Plan for the Inclusion of Designated Grants and the continuation of the Consultation Scheme with the KS established by the previous Government. In particular, the Top Funding Scheme for Resource-Required Services deserves commendation. It is important to meet these users with alternatives and, in particular, with organised services. Too many people today have institutions as their only alternative. Many young people who shouldn't be there are found in an old age institution. I'm glad that the government saw it going in the wrong direction last year, and now straightens out taking a long step in the right direction. With regard to the financial structure of the municipal sector in 2008, the arrangements of the Left Government follow a long way, but we disagree a little on how the municipalities will get the income. The left wants to keep a corporate tax rate of 4.25 pst. That means about $1 billion more to the municipalities. In addition, we want municipalities to have greater freedom to determine their own taxpayer. In other words, we want the municipalities to keep more of their own tax revenues and to withdraw less into the treasury to make the municipalities state branches. Another concern is the rapid growth of the public sector, which is contributing to the pressing of the overall economic situation. The level of interest rates is gradually increasing and the local authorities are gradually spending more, while we know that strong economic growth is also centralising. What left is at least satisfied with in the government’s approach is the commitment to climate change and the environment in the municipal sector. The so-called Green Energy Communities, for which the Government has presented a proposal, will contribute very little to extracting the potential of 15 pst. the reduction of climate emissions in Norway, which municipalities can actually contribute. 14 out of 431 municipalities do little in the national context. The left wants a stronger commitment to the municipal sector as an environmental and climate driver and has set aside 100 million. kr for such a commitment already in our proposal for a revised national budget for 2007. A systematic response is needed to adopt climate plans in all municipalities and to initiate measures. It is a challenge in itself, as many municipalities lack jobs working with environmental measures. We also promote a proposal to make municipalities the first line service for environmental information. When most Norwegian municipalities today do not have their own job working on environmental issues, little information is collected and organized for the inhabitants. This is a paradox when we know that we are responsible, among other things, for: water, sewerage, land use, transport planning, and thus spill over emissions and instruments that have the potential to contribute to the reduction of Norwegian climate emissions by 15 pst. The left also lacks a follow-up to the local democracy commission. We believe that the municipal proposition is appropriate as an annual status report for local democracy, a kind of state of democracy. A small start can be said to be when a separate project on the recruitment of women to local policies is mentioned in the proposition. But we also need to mention the status of immigrants engaged in politics, how children and young people participate, how many citizens' initiatives have been taken in the last year, and how many local referendums we have had in the last year. We also see an ever-increasing trend towards the creation of intercommunal companies, and such a more indirect democracy. A major challenge for the Government is the flow of migration running from the northern part of the country and internal parts of the eastern part of the country. This creates major challenges for the municipal sector in these parts of the country, not least in care and care. Indirectly, these municipalities also face tax access challenges because private business, especially small businesses, is hit by scarce labour supply. Especially in North Norway, the public sector is experiencing major recruitment problems. Removing flows are one of the challenges; another is to facilitate increased labour migration. We regret that the government parties would not take this discussion in connection with Document No. 8:32 proposal on labour immigration, representative proposal from the Right. One of the proposals from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left is on a so-called neighbouring country visa. The left wants to have a so-called pomor zone identified between Finnmark and Murmansk, which may be one of several possible boundaries. Such a zone may appear as an important area for cooperation between Norwegian and Russian interests and for the exchange of labour. I take up the proposals of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e673	The representative Vera Lysklätt has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e678	First of all, thank the representative Vera Lightcloth for the honor of the Government for what has happened to resource-intensive services. Then I would like to ask the representative Lyskleatt if it was bad to be a member of the Left and sit in government and close the government career with strong cuts in just this arrangement. As it is soon approaching two years since the Left left of the government, it is nearby to ask the Left, which I know is good at the bottom in terms of Community solutions and to ensure well-being: is the time soon to finally break with the right and find yourself better and perhaps closer to political friends?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e685	I thank you for the question. I know that the representative, Hagebaken, has been very concerned with this system of resource-intensive services. It appears that there is a broad consensus that no batch has a good conscience for the 2005 decision, including the government batches, which, in addition to helping to reduce the compensation, have also raised the point of impact of reimbursement in 2007. The more happy it is that the Government for 2008 proposes a model in which the reimbursement rate is increased to 85 pst. In addition, it is proposed to simplify the model and increase predictability for municipalities. As I said in my post, the government deserves praise for this initiative. The left fully supports prioritizing those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e699	I share the concerns of Lyskleatt's representative about relocation flows, that some municipalities, because of tax access, have a poorer opportunity to have a good service offer than other municipalities. That is why we want redistribution. So I share those assessments. But what surprises me then is that when the representative Lyskleat comes up with that consideration in her post, she in the same setting promotes a proposal that will have exactly the opposite effect of what Lyskleatt speaks for, just that the municipality's share of the corporate tax will be increased to 4.25 p.m., when we know what the outcome would be. This will lead to almost all growth in the municipal sector coming to the big cities with high tax inputs and large enterprises, and no growth will occur, for example. to large parts of Finnmark, Hedmark and other areas where there is no strong nutritional basis. Is it not an inconsistency when the representative Lyskleatt speaks for the tax-deprived municipalities in the first place, and for the districts in the second round, but later today is going to vote for a proposal that gives the same municipalities less income? So I encourage the Left to change its position during the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e708	The left wants to keep a corporate tax rate of 4.25 pst. It'll mean 1 billion more to the municipalities. In addition, we want municipalities to have greater freedom to determine their own taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e717	The aim of the government parties is that the municipality of Norway should shine and that elected and elected employees in the municipalities should straighten their backs. And then you might well ask yourself why it's so important. Well, we think it's important because Norwegian municipalities as a system are absolutely brilliant. Employees and elected representatives in municipalities provide people with the most important services in everyday life. The municipalities are the democratic arena that we have closest to people, and the municipalities are a motor in social development locally. It is the whole of the task portfolio that makes the municipalities ingenious instruments to cultivate the community and the Community solutions. This whole system facilitates closeness, transparency, sound priorities and good use of resources. I record that some arguments for more ringing and price financing. Well, then you're just ruining the genius of this system. In order for the municipalities to fulfil their functions and to be perceived as genius by the inhabitants, they must have a solid economic foundation. Strengthening the local economy has been a key element in realising the Government's vision of what municipalities should be for the inhabitants of the country. From 2005 to 2008, the real growth in the income of the municipal sector will be about DKK 20 billion. In addition, we know that there is NOK 6 billion in 2006 as a result of extraordinary tax revenue. It is gratifying that efforts in the municipal sector have already delivered results in the form of better services to citizens. The number of children in kindergarten was 21,900 in 2005 and 2006. A total of 5,800 new annual works were created in the care and care sectors in 2005 and 2006, and the target of 10,000 new annual works during the ageing period is, in fact, soon to be achieved. Good development continues in 2007. Statistical Central Bureau figures indicate a significant increase in municipal services from the first quarter of 2006 to the first quarter of 2007. As indicated by the grossing-up proposal, in 2008 there is room for 2000 new annual care services, continued child care and psychiatry and school interventions. The government strengthens the free income of the municipal sector by between DKK 2.6 and 2.9 billion compared to the State budget for 2007. It's these numbers that express the increased space for action in the municipalities in 2008. Within this, there is a strengthening of the Top Funding Scheme for Resource-Required Services of 425 million. kr. In the context of the review of the last year's budget, I said that my worst conscience was that we were unable to put in place a new and improved system for resource-intensive services. I am pleased that we now have a new system in place, a system that creates greater predictability for the municipalities, and thus provides the basis for better services for those who need this kind of service. Now, in two years' time – and we are going into the third with the strengthening of the municipal economy – we have been able to create an economic foundation that allows municipalities to play a better role in the development of society. This is primarily the expectations we have for the municipalities now. Yes, we will continue to strengthen the basic services for which the municipalities are responsible, but we also look forward to municipalities taking more account of economic development, systematising the work of the voluntary sector, further strengthening cultural work, putting energy and environmental plans in place, taking on place local development, etc. It is gratifying to be able to present a plan for the local economy for next year that will provide greater optimism and will provide many new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e735	I am not going to ask why the Government has now seen the light regarding the financing of resource-intensive services, but I am going to ask what the Council of State thinks about the rapporteur from the Skiptvet who is going south with 16 elite municipal politicians from his own municipality, as a bonus for a well-worked job in the municipal government period. It is not only the care of the elderly or the provision of school services that does not shine, it also does not shine from kindergarten cows, the maintenance of the municipality or the maintenance of municipal roads. What does the Council of State think when but reads about it? What are the signals that the Council of State sends when using municipal funds in this way? And isn't the Council of State concerned about all the unresolved tasks that exist in the municipal sector, when we see such a use of money in some municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e742	I never say anything about individual cases in the municipalities, either in this case. What I need to say is that I am deeply concerned that the municipalities are using the increased resources they have now received in a good way. If you choose to give bonuses, or you choose to spend money in other ways that people have doubts about are right, then it's important that people use their voting rights for the harvest and say what they mean. That's the system we have in Norway: we can put in new local politicians if we think that the sitting people are doing crazy things. My starting point is that the municipalities should manage their pounds in a way that ensures the best possible care for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e751	The council said in its statement that we have now had two years of growth in the local government economy and are on our way into the third. Once again, the Council of State chooses to disregard its own documents showing the nice numbers. There should be nice figures for a council responsible for the municipal sector that the growth of municipal income is not just two years old, but actually four years old. It is quite strange that the Council of State does not choose to produce correctly, as one sometimes has to do when one is confronted with concrete questions and then also refers to its own technical calculation committee. Now it is the way that the Council of State and I have met in this room now regularly for two years to discuss how the development of the municipality's economy has been. Many would like to claim that we should stop meeting in this way! I want to come with an outstretched hand, because the representative Rolf Rekovam today had an article that, in my opinion, gave a realistic presentation of the situation. Was there anything in that post that the Council of State disagreed with?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e758	I like to meet the representative Höie in different settings, I, to discuss community economics and other things! There is no doubt that we are again putting forward a good plan for the municipalities. We're proud of that, and we're happy to be able to do that. I don't think it's right that I comment on individual contributions from the government's representatives, but what I think it has been put too little emphasis on in this discussion when we talk about the free revenues for next year is the action space that municipalities get from strengthening the resource-intensive services scheme by 425 million. kr. It contributes to a better system, and it is also a system that increases the scope of action of municipalities. It's strange that the right is dealing with all of its numbers. Take a trip to the municipalities, talk to rapporteurs, talk to advisers – then you will be confirmed that there is a whole new world out in Kommune-Norge, it is a completely different optimism to track down than it was under the previous regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e769	With regard to the distribution of corporation tax for 2008, there was a change in the method of calculation that led to a large impact on individual municipalities. This amendment was not mentioned in the proposal, and the Committee has now asked the Government to return to this matter in the context of the 2008 government budget for the autumn. My question to the Council of State is: Is it not important that this type of calculation change, which could lead to changes in municipal income of up to 180 million. kr, is the subject of political debate in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e776	I am busy giving correct and adequate information to Stortinget. I do not feel that there is any question about it in this case. What we're talking about are technical changes made in the underlying bodies of the Ministry of Finance. The Stortinget has now asked for a further explanation of these technical changes made in an underlying body to the Ministry of Finance, and the Stortinget is to be provided by sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e783	According to KS, local authorities are poor if interest rates continue to rise. According to Chief Economist Per Richard Johansen in KS, the municipalities have lost 600 million. kr on an interest rate increase of 1 percentage point. The reason why the interest rate change now affects municipalities is much worse. that the liabilities of municipalities are much larger than in the past. At the same time, the receivables that give interest income are about the same as before. There's nothing more in the bank than before, so interest increases are going to be hard. Does it not worry the Council of State that we can risk that the municipalities will not get the increase in freedom that is being provided if interest rates continue to increase to the extent that the Minister of Finance has also reflected?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e790	We're going to be glad that the Norwegian economy is going well. It gives increased income to the municipalities. But it is also true that we are in a situation in the Norwegian economy where the pressure is high. As the governor has announced over a long period of time, we have to be prepared for a certain increase in interest rates in small and not so frequent steps. The government conducts a responsible economic policy. We're concerned that we can't bring more resources into the economy than keeping interest rates in check, as opposed to what the Progress Party believes you can, that there are no limits to what resources you can bring into the economy. With the arrangement of the Progress Party, we would have the guarantee of a rapid interest rate rise. Our arrangement, which is a responsible arrangement, requires us to expect such developments as the governor has announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e797	I would like to take the opportunity to ask a little bit more about the distribution of corporate tax for 2008, which I asked questions about instead. Then the council replied that the underlying agencies had made a technical change. But this change is quite extensive. This is about the consequence for the municipality of Stavanger could be 180 million. kr if you make this change. Is it not worrying that underlying directorates of the Ministry of Finance, such as the Tax Directorate, are making such changes in the calculation without having been signalled from a political point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e803	Here, the starting point is to facilitate a more accurate management of corporate tax. That's what I'm really concerned about, that we're going to do. Then we come back to Stortinget with full information on this once we have received the sufficient information from the underlying bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e808	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e811	Much attention has been paid to this top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive services. That's good, because now it's going to be a much better and not least a much more fair order. This means a lot to many municipalities in the country. Nevertheless, we know that some municipalities will still feel that the costs in this area are high, and the costs are demanding in terms of the service provision for the rest. I just want to say a little bit about this, so that the municipalities this applies should be aware that we know about the challenges that lie here. This applies in particular to municipalities, often smaller municipalities, with many users compared to the population. This means that there will be many excesses to cover before the end of the top-level funding scheme for each individual user. So we believe that here you have to be able to allocate discretion to correct the situation for these municipalities, which is also said both by the Government in the proposition and by the majority in the position. Otherwise, I am glad that important steps are being taken to ensure that municipalities receive more refugees with high resource needs. In order to make it easier for municipalities to do so, we are in favour of the municipalities retaining the housing-stimulating special grant, while at the same time getting a full count in the top-level funding scheme. It represents a significant improvement of hundreds of thousands of dollars, perhaps up to $1 million per. uses when you see the whole change in our system here in context. I therefore have expectations that far more, preferably all, in this category now come out of asylum recipients and into residence. Because there's someone who really needs to get a faster settlement, there's this group. This requires cooperation between the state and the municipalities, but with what we have now done, the state takes a greater financial responsibility. Furthermore, it should be noted that we are asking the Government to assess regulatory changes in the current state of play in view of the fact that individuals today fall out of the Top Finance Scheme at the age of 67. Today's rules may have some unfortunate consequences, and pending a desired change here, we say that frames of discretion can also be used in this area to compensate bad-for-profit municipalities or to meet increased costs of a certain size in this context. Then I have to say something about what I choose to call the populism billion from the Progress Party. After the red-green government has strengthened the local economy and will continue to do so, so that in 2008 we are almost 20 billion kroner above what was level in 2005, so the Progress Party comes and says that they are going in for a billion more dollars. And then, when you know the history of the Advance Party in the area of municipal economics, it appears like a clean tactical manoeuvre a few months before the municipal elections. In addition, there is a high level of question as to whether the Progress Party in total is at all close to improving the situation of municipalities. I mean clearly no. I think of my own country: what would it look like in municipalities in Valdres and Gudbrandsdalen with the agricultural policy of the Progress Party? We would have had a severe depopulation of the districts across the country, with similar density, press problems and lack of capacity in larger cities. In view of the fact that the Progress Party will almost rage on Norwegian agriculture and implement strong cuts in state regional policy instruments, the Promotion Party's appeal to the municipalities is, moreover, promoted in a secure assurance that it will not be adopted, far from impressive. In the case of the Right Line of municipal policy, it is not that easy to get hold of it. Even though they're with the Progress Party for a lot, it's something that can also seem pretty good. The right is heavily concerned by the taxpayer. The right has never been known to be concerned with distribution policy, and we sometimes see how this also turns out to be true to the local economy. More and more emphasis should be placed on taxation, more emphasis should be placed on corporate taxes, as if you do not understand the different assumptions that individual municipalities have in order to obtain tax income. By making big differences between municipalities you create big differences between people, and there's a development that we don't want in any way, so here we really stand against each other -- the right side, not least the right side, on the one hand, and we that make up the red-green, on the other. I'm very surprised that the left is also on the wrong side here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e826	In the option of St.prp. No 67 it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘It is a goal of the Government to strengthen local democracy. The decentralisation of power and authority through framework funding and regulatory frameworks is necessary in order to provide citizens with services they are satisfied with and to create a positive development in each community.’;» It is with a little wonder to read this and then records that the largest government party, the Labour Party, voted against the basic law of the local self-government in Norway and elsewhere. wrote in the notes that, in their view, it could be difficult for the local self-government of Norway to lay down basic laws. In the setting of the municipal proposition, the government party points to the need for continuous work on renewal and efficiency in all parts of the municipal sector. It is shown that in the administrative reform, a major change in the division of labour between the levels of government will have a positive impact on the renewal and efficiency of the public sector. The progress party will claim that the result is the opposite. In our view, it's a simplification from today's system to a two-tier model with only state and municipality that could have given the desired efficiency. The party of progress is disappointed that the transition and the improvement in efficiency do not have sufficient attention from the Government's side. The government received many input from early autumn 2006 on good efficiency and modernisation measures from a number of municipalities. These proposals are not followed up, and the Government has not submitted a comprehensive plan for renewal and efficiency improvement, as they promised. Therefore, the Progress Party has, together with the Right, the following suggestions: ‘The Government is asked to explain the conclusion and progress of the project ‘Effectiveness and efficiency development in the municipal sector’. Furthermore, it is requested that there be a case of monitoring the efficiency and efficiency development of the municipal sector and a review of the instruments used to achieve high efficiency and good quality in the municipal sector.» The Progress Party is also disappointed that the municipal proposition does not include the right to challenge, which is a powerful tool for the launching of competition in the municipal sector. However, we will show that local authorities have the possibility to introduce the right to challenge locally, and we would like the Government to develop clear guidance plans for those municipalities that want to launch such measures. The Progress Party would point out that competitive outsourcing is not the same as privatisation, but is a tool for optimising the supply of municipal residents. For these, it doesn't matter whether it's a private or a public company that wins a bidding round, because it's the quality and extent of the services that are decisive for the users. Ethics is important for the public sector. The Ministry has established the Forum on Ethics in the Municipal Sector and has launched a review of legislation of importance for ethical issues in the sector. A continuous focus is needed on the prevention and detection of unethical and criminal behaviour in the sector. There is a need for review and improvement of control procedures when something is detected incorrectly. It is important that individual local government and county councils exercise the necessary discretion when pointing out spokesmen and other elected representatives to municipal, intercommunal and, where appropriate, other companies. The Progress Party believes that ethics in the municipal sector is largely about how the sector is organised, and that openness, free competition and a level playing field for private and public activities are decisive. Here the government has rejected a number of proposals that would have strengthened the control of public sector resource use. We believe that in common with these matters, the government has not taken into account the gravity of the situation in Kommune-Noreg, and has not given the municipalities a better ride to prevent corruption and damage. If there's something that undermines people's confidence in the public, it's the detection of corruption and corruption, which unfortunately occasionally appears in the media. Very often it turns out that the municipalities where this happens do not have the necessary and good enough control systems that could have prevented this, that they do not have a control system at all, or leave an eye on what is happening. We all have a great responsibility for internal control and procedures that ensure a good ethical standard in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e856	As the rapporteur said correctly, we have been given a new direction in the development of society and not least a much greater economic freedom for the Municipality of Norway. In turn, many municipalities have been given the opportunity to strengthen the most basic and important welfare services, such as school, kindergarten and care for the elderly. Several people today have pointed out that no one from the government parties has said anything about care for the elderly. I want to use my speaking time to say something about it. I record that the opposition is concerned with care for the elderly, but they also tend to blackmail the situation. I find that a little strange, when we know how they strained the municipal economy in their reign. For the Workers' Party, good and equivalent care for the elderly has always been one of our most important issues. We're not yet in target, but we've taken a cap to increase both capacity and quality. We're on track with the 10,000 new year works, and the growth in 2006 was over 3 900 years, the strongest growth in many years. We want an elderly care that is characterised by security and freedom of choice. Everyone should have a real opportunity to choose whether they want an offer organised at home, in nursing homes or in nursing homes. I am pleased that the government has announced that next year there will be a new investment grant to build more hospitals and nursing homes. The government's policy leads, without denomination of funds and detailed management of the municipalities. Of course, it is also crucial who controls the municipalities. We see a lot of examples of that. I heard from the post of the representative Ib Thomsen of the Progress Party that he was very concerned about the care of the elderly. In Oslo, the Progress Party sits with the senior bureau. A recent report from the Municipal Audit Office states that the number of hospitalised places in the capital has fallen, and the waiting list for room has hardly been longer. Is that what the Progress Party is talking about? So we know that it's the right-hand side that's been running Oslo since 1999. Unfortunately, the care of the elderly in Oslo does not shine. In Arendal, they have this year budgeted 50 new posts in care. This is in addition to the 40 posts they have already filled after the government change. It's in the Arendal scale a formidable increase. If we're going to succeed in getting an old age care as we want it, we need a lot of good employees. One of the major challenges of the coming years will be labour shortages. Here it is important that municipalities as employers do what they can to mobilise labour resources. This can be done by eliminating involuntary part-time work, reducing sick leave and stimulating older workers to stay longer in work. All of this requires close and good cooperation between the municipality as an employer and the employees and their organisations. Here the red-greens have a great advantage. We believe in and want to cooperate with the employees – and we can cooperate with the employees. Co-operation on conversion and renewal is a much better tool than the one-sided drive of competitive outsourcing and privatisation of the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e873	For a government we have! For a brilliant municipal minister this country has in Åslaug Haga! In this case, the Government continues its project for more well-being and more sharing. The voters chased the Bondevik government out of the government offices. And why did they do that? Well, they wouldn't have anything more of privatization and degradation of the public sector. The government's project is to strengthen local democracy, but it's so important: to give thousands of children a children's home and give the elderly a more dignified and secure care. People's reactions do not mean that they disagree with the measures the government is promoting, but rather that they want things to go faster. The Government fully agrees. I ask the opposition to notice that there is no popular requirement to reinstate the Bondevik government. In the last week, several parties have presented so-called integration action plans, or alternative foreign laws. While these parties are talking and talking, the government is in the process of acting, and this matter we are now discussing is another proof of that. It is enough to mention the increase in the integration grant, the continuation of language monitoring trials, free core time in kindergarten and the continuation of the ‘New Chance’ programme. We need to improve the funding mechanism for Norwegian training for immigrants, and we need to make sure that it is better adapted to the individual's assumptions. We're going to give municipalities that have asylum recipients a more real compensation for the costs associated with being a host municipality. We shall amend the regulatory framework for the Top Finance Facility for Resource-Required Services so that the housing-stimulating specific grant for refugees with severe disabilities or behavioural disabilities is not deducted when measuring grants. We cannot accept that these people will remain in reception for years, and this grip will stimulate the faster settlement of this particular group of refugees. Another thing I would like to comment on is better coordination of relief measures for people in crisis situations. The representatives might imagine getting a phone call that a sister was killed by her husband in front of their children. A few weeks ago, I met two women who have experienced this, when their sister was killed. One of the daughters had a gunshot wound in her hand as she stretched forward to try to protect her mother from being shot. Life overnight was turned upside down. Suddenly they were given responsibility for three children. In a situation where they really had more than enough to handle their children's grief, their own grief and shock, they had to look for themselves in bureaucratic jungle and fight countless battles to cope with the new everyday life. Unfortunately, we hear such experiences from more people in similar situations. People have had to sell houses, have quit the job and may have fallen into such processes. It's unsustainable. I believe that when people end up in such crisis situations, it has to be public. There must immediately be someone who contacts the closest relatives and says to them: You are now in an exceptional state, and I am here to help you. I'm going to take responsibility for finding out the system in relation to their needs, so that you can concentrate on dealing with your grief and get through it. - Call it a crisis agent. I am pleased that the Committee is largely united in the desire to ask the Government to assess how the assistance measures for people in a crisis situation can be better coordinated in individual municipalities. There can be great socio-economic gains in this, and I think it will be incredibly important for those involved. We can never guard against such terrible events happening, but we can contribute to the fact that the people who are being hit do not receive a double burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e894	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e897	One of the main challenges and demanding tasks of this government is to balance differences in society. We see trends in public poverty in Norway's largest cities. It is unemployment, people suffering from mental illness and discrimination — and problems are increasing. This should be a high priority for those of us who are responsible politicians. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Red-Green Government sees a strong and clear link in social policy, where the NAV reform will have a central role, where a social housing policy becomes more important, where poverty eradication, habilitation and treatment measures for drug addicts also become an important part of our social policy. There is a need to strengthen capacity in the area of prevention, follow-up, treatment, care and aftercare. There will be a need for a number of new measures, such as lowthreshold drug centres, workplaces, accommodation with staff, motivational clinics, follow-up and follow-up positions in municipalities. The action in this field must also include treatment and rehabilitation measures in criminal care and specific measures for children and women. Good quality in the treatment of drug addicts requires faster help and interaction between very many different levels, including measures to reduce the recent recruitment of drug addicts. This is why the focus on children and young people is very, very necessary to strengthen prevention. We are particularly concerned that the psychosocial offer for children and young people in municipalities is not well developed. The same applies to school health for children and young people. However, in the mental health escalation plan, it is now set up to provide a separate supervisor for mental health work among children and young people, and we are pleased with that. Several dwellings are also expected to be completed during 2007. Among the beneficiaries of municipal services, the incidence of mental illness is increasing. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we be able to prepare individual offers in line with this. It is set at SEK 2.8 billion in 2007 for the operation of such services. We have also briefed that there will soon be a stepping-up plan for the drug field that will lay a good foundation for action in this field. We are pleased that this is now mentioned in the Community proposal. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e914	The President will encourage everyone to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e917	It will be difficult for me not to comment that both the Turkish Battle Forces Vedum from the Central Party and the Arbeiderpartiet Arild Stokkan-Grande occupied the pulpit with a very high cigar lead. Then it's probably time to remind someone that the voter wasn't on the basis of any overwhelming majority. Was it not the case that our electoral system caused this government to occupy the offices? And don't the same people not say anything about there were many election vows in the election campaign that might not have been or will be fulfilled? For me, from Telemark, it is a long way to go that the election campaign said no, the Union should be saved, only we go to the government offices. Today, the Union is defeated. Industrial enterprises were not to be sold abroad. It's happened. An industrial power regime was promised. Today, there is protest outside the Lion's Hill. So it's part of the story that the black paint runs off, and it should run off. For one, the increased tax revenue received by municipalities should not be forgotten because the Right in Government pursued sound economic policies. And less interest expenditure in municipalities accounts for a large amount of money – higher tax revenue, lower interest costs. It was not for nothing that the newspapers at the government change wrote that the government came to the covered table. Now it's the way that the Right is at about the same level as the government parties in terms of the municipal economy and the municipal proposition. And we also want the good for the municipalities. But what concerns us in the Right is that the government parties place such strong restrictions. They do not respond to the major challenges ahead either. Interest is rising again, and the Government is currently allowing it to happen. We have a shortage of labour. It's striking, and it's urgent, but the government still won't do anything about it. They're still going to vote against our proposals. They will wait for a forecast to be analysed and processed, and then nothing will be done before 2009. The government has very few incentives for efficiency and rational operation in the municipal sector. One of the things I'm most surprised about is that there's no transparency and competition in the sector, no that volunteers, individuals and businesses can be allowed to supplement the public with services for the citizens. [[The President clubs.]] It will provide more flexible and good solutions, fewer cows, a better offer in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e930	I don't have the habit of running high cigarettes, but I take the floor to point out how important the economic promise has been to the citizens of the municipalities of this country. It is the municipalities that are closest to the inhabitants, and that is the level that provides the most of direct services to the inhabitants. What would the situation in municipalities have been like today if the voters in 2005 had not put their foot down on the extermination policy pursued by the previous government? Employees in the municipalities could not jump faster, and the offers were cut so far that no more could be cut. Therefore, it was high time we got a new large number, a new government and a reverse operation for the economic development of the municipalities. I often visit small and medium-sized municipalities, with political leadership based on different parties, but no one has yet indicated that this financial improvement for municipalities was wrong, on the contrary. In my 24 years as a municipal politician, I got involved in building up many important offers for the inhabitants of our municipalities. The local politicians who later had to cut important offers for the inhabitants had a little rewarding job. Worse, it was when legal duties were too cut. I hope that today's opposition parties now understand how wrong this was, and that they will acknowledge that this was a misguided policy. Privatisation and outsourcing were the answers of today’s opposition parties to how the economy should be corrected, but more and more people soon discovered that there is a limit to how fast employees can jump and how much the market can control in a municipality. More and more also soon discovered that private operators were not in line in small and medium-sized municipalities. We have now come into a much better situation for the municipalities, where again several important services are provided to the inhabitants. From 2005 to 2007, the sector has had a real revenue growth of 14.5 billion in 2007. This marks the citizens and elected representatives in the municipalities very well in their everyday lives. Without the voters' clear choice of a new political majority in 2005, the situation would not have been as positive as it is now. I hope the voters will remember this when, until the harvest, they will drop again a vote in the ballot box.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e946	Nine times the interest rate has been raised under Kristin Halvorsen as Minister of Finance – nine times, it also notes the municipal sector. The local government sector is still struggling with large debts, and when the settlement for this year and for next year becomes real zero settlement, i.e. that the free resources cover only demographic development, as promised by this government to the municipal sector, will not be the big armstroke. At least you got what you expected from red-green politicians. Now we see over and over again that when newspapers, among other things, in Westfold, addressing the situation of the municipal sector and the elections are the responses of red-green politicians, among others. in Sandefjord that no, we see that we have a problem now, but the government is definitely fixing it. Well, the government hasn't arranged it at all. The government's not going to fix it. The government is floating on a participation wave created by completely different from the government itself. We know that the government is actually now going in to destroy some of the rising wave that exists, among other things. by removing some of the incentives for local value creation. In this way, corporate tax is very important to make municipalities better able to see that their efforts have an impact on future value creation. What is clear, in addition to the new interest rate increases, is the breakup that has occurred. Jens Stoltenberg and his red-green helpers promised in 2005 that the care of the elderly would shine. There is nothing now that indicates that care for the elderly shines a bit more than it did then, rather that it shines somewhat clearer in red-green municipalities, rather the opposite. We know that in municipalities where you give the individual freedom to choose yourself, you are more satisfied. Kindergarten space for everyone would mean that Kristin Halvorsen now went off. She bites herself in the desk at the Minister of Finance's office, and intends to stay for a while. The pools were to be filled. The teacher's density was going up. I guess all of this is well planted within the promise breakup and is going to be it throughout the period. Where you have managed to comply, among other things: in relation to tax increases. We know that the taxes were going to go up – yes, and that's where the government will pay for it. At any rate, we have to pay tribute to one point, that one promise has been fulfilled, in relation to the level of 2004. Now you've gone beyond that. Today we see a protest action on the lawn outside, where the SV usually stands. Now it's LO, and it's the industrial power regime, where you obviously haven't been able to do it. It was also in the cards when the election promise was given.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e961	This is optimism among local politicians at the moment, and not just among local politicians from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. It's unisony -- all the games are now very happy. Because after four years of starvation of the municipalities under the previous government, the municipalities of the next year will have a total of NOK 20 billion more than in 2005. It's a lot of money, but it was necessary. Municipalities are now betting on schools, kindergartens, the elderly and health. Services are increasing, and they're getting better. That's how it has to be. It's in the municipalities the welfare is created. It's public services people want. It is not the wallet to decide what care you can afford when you grow old. And the municipalities spend the money where it's most needed: in school, in kindergartens and in the elderly. All the talk from this pulpit that the municipalities spend the money on expensive town halls, which the Progress Party in particular has claimed, is now refuted. The municipalities employ more hands in the care of the elderly. The government has stopped the privatisation of the school, and the pools are being filled up. A lot has improved. But we recognize that a lot remains. There was a lot to do again. With solid transfers to municipalities also in the coming years, the promises of the 2005 election campaign and the Soria Moria declaration will gradually come into place. During the previous ageing period, taxes were reduced for people with the highest incomes and the highest wealth, while older care and schools became increasingly poor. Smoking municipality is the only blue spot in Eastfold. It is governed by the Right Party and the Advance Party. It's a municipality that's had a huge deficit for many years, and they now had to introduce property taxes, a tax that they're actually opposed to. Not even increased tax revenues, which the right-wing parties here in Stortinget today have claimed to be so important to the municipalities, were enough for the municipalities of Rygge. There is no doubt that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the municipality believe that they received too little transfers from Erna Solberg, and that this is what has brought them up in the difficult situation they have come into – in front of a choice. We hope we get rid of the blue spot also in Back. In the election campaign, the Workers' Party promised to bet on the community over tax credits to the richest in the next four years. That gives us 50 billion extra to the most important tasks, such as kindergartens, care for the elderly, health and education. Even now, after two years, we see that the price has changed and that it yields results. There's no lifting break, as claimed in the previous post. This year, local politicians are looking forward to the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e976	After following this debate here, I become optimistic on behalf of the red-greens. There has been a series of what I want to define as overly right-wing representatives on the platform, especially the last one, who talked about trapping different types of desks around here in the country, and one describes how amazing everything was under the government of Bondevik II, that the rapporteurs cheered and everything was just happy and very well. If that's the reality of the Right, I wish you luck in the election campaign. I wish you every success in meeting the reality of the local debates around the country. I think you're going to go on a battlefield if you go on with the same rhetoric as here in the hall. No one will understand you. Everyone says they're sitting in their house inside Oslo and they think they understand the reality. I have a recommendation: come out, talk to people, see what a change in reality it has been over the last two years, thanks to a new direction and willingness to prioritize differently, the willingness to prioritize community rather than tax havens. I think everyone who sees sees that. So in a way, I hope you go on like this, because it makes you lose the election. Then it's the arrangement of corporation tax. I wonder that, for example, The representative of Starheim from Sogn and Fjordane is a really hard champion to increase the proportion of corporate tax in municipalities, at the expense of other income in the municipal sector. Because that's what's going to happen. How will it look for Sogn and Fjordane? Well, Sogn and Fjordane will surely lose weight on it, the municipality by municipality, the district municipality by district municipality will lose weight on it. So I wish Starheim luck in the election campaign in Sogn and Fjordane to defend that he will take money out of the municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane and move them to Oslo, Stavanger, Bærum and other municipalities that have initially come very well out of the promise that this government has made. And when the financial spokesperson in this debate from the Right comes into the Chamber, it's taking it all off. $20 billion is relatively much money, so he should stick his finger in the ground and see that it's a real boost. When he says that there is no care done, when during the year we are likely to be able to get 7 800 more annual jobs in the care sector than it was three years ago, it is strange. And last year we were able to put in 16 100 kindergartens, a huge expansion that we've never seen the husband do. I can't believe that a person who has respect for himself goes in and comes with a lot of ease, and doesn't call this a real change. I think that if the Right continues that way, they lose the choice, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e985	In the last two years, the local economy has improved dramatically. It is to be commended by the Government, and not least by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, he has made a strong contribution to this effort on the municipalities. Governments have made it clear what is at stake: the development of our welfare society and how we distribute well-being fairly in this country. Now we see that municipalities are working hard to develop good services for their citizens, and we see growth in the number of employees in the large welfare areas of care and school. It's very joyful. However, there is still a need for attention to the community sector, and I would like to pay particular attention to the school, which has major challenges ahead. Last fall we introduced the promise of knowledge. In the extension of this, we have also focused a lot on how all children should participate in the knowledge society through the treatment of St.meld. No 16, ‘...and no one was left’. However, my great concern has been that the number of teachers in primary school should rise again. Because if we're to succeed in our ambitions in the promise of knowledge and in getting everyone involved, there's more teachers to come in. It is therefore gratifying that figures from the Ministry of Knowledge show that there were 600 more teachers in 2006. But there's no reason for the municipalities to be satisfied with that, because we need more. In the magazine Education on 8 June we read that the Education Association and the KS will work together on a good school and good education. They have jointly developed a common school policy platform that makes it clear that employees and employers want much of the same thing. They commit to cooperation and dialogue to develop a good school and education that focuses on several things, including: competence and resource base enabling adapted training, systematic assessment of own practices and continuous improvement work, as well as modern buildings, teaching equipment and high-quality exteriors contributing to the learning and working environment. The agreement also contains a number of other objectives, but I think that the ones I refer to make it clear that the municipalities have high ambitions on behalf of the school. It's a pleasure, but it also requires us to follow up both with sufficient resources and with clarifying our expectations of investing in a good school for everyone. An important concern in this context is the high demand in municipalities for maintenance and new construction in the school sector. The high investment needs may mean that some municipalities are saving on operating resources and thus that not enough teachers are employed to achieve the objectives of the KS have joined the Education Association. I trust that the Council of State in its dialogue with the KS is just highlighting the importance that the objectives they have set themselves together with the Federation of Education are being followed up in all municipalities. It will be a guarantee that we are developing a knowledge society where no one is left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1002	It was well Kari Lise Holmberg who said something about the high cigar lead from Arild Stokkan-Grande. I think the representative Bent Höie from the Right could also participate in the circuit championship here in the cigar show! Right-wing struts of self-satisfaction as to the groundbreaking efforts they made in the previous government for the welfare of Norwegian municipalities. At the same time, trustees in Right Land and Beach travel around and boast that it is really Right who is responsible for the strong growth of the local economy. It is mildly said that the original reasoning behind this is that the local economy is strong because of strong growth in tax revenue, which in turn is a result of the tax policy of the Right. If that were the case, it would be the first time in history that the dynamic tax policy, as it was called in the 1980s, worked — that large tax reliefs generate increased public revenues. It is also a bit funny that the impact on the local government sector is only inserted after we have received red-green government offices. This, of course, must be painful – and obviously – to the Right. But it's probably a completely different dynamics that kicks in – the red-green well-being dynamics. The right-wing leader was the municipal minister for four years. If it were the case that the previous government would really spend more money on the municipal sector, they could have said about it, and then I think they would have had support in the Storting, but that was not exactly where the problem was. The right has to take responsibility for the problems in the municipal sector when they are in power. On the other hand, I am sure that the Right Steps in the reputation of their nuclear electors for the tax reliefs that were granted. There is probably a high level of self-satisfaction when tax relief and not welfare are the most important. The right writes in the statement that the government of Stoltenberg ‘is opposed to virtually all schemes involving freedom of choice for the individual user’. It's as wrong as it can be. Now the kids at the school can join in and decide where the school trip is going. In the last period, the box was empty. There was no choice. It wasn't a school trip. The right hand talk about having free choice is just nice words, for it was the right hand who chose. And in the choice between well-being and tax relief to the richest, it was the richest that used to be. But the Right and the then government lost the election, which Kari Lise Holmberg was inside, with little margin. But if the margin was small, the political difference is great. There are a lot of people, not least in the municipality of Norway, who are very happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1020	Growth in the municipal sector continues, and it is necessary to ensure the welfare of Norwegian municipalities. After a period of budget cuts and the reduction of municipal services, Norwegian municipal politicians have been able to focus on something more constructive in the last two years. The total income of municipalities has increased sharply, and Norwegian municipalities are again setting rates at school and care. However, there is no denying that growth in the local government sector may not be evenly distributed across the country. Some municipalities come out better than others, and so it'll probably be in the future as well. It is, I think, quite impossible to create an income system that captures all conditions in the municipal sector. But it can't be natural that there are always the same municipalities and the same counties that are coming out badly and that are always at the bottom of all the metrological statistics. Of course, it may be because of a notion that we live our carefree lives down there on the coast of the sun in Westfold, with no need other than the sun or the wind. But just sun and wind are the cause of a demographic development that imposes additional burdens on the municipalities in our county. People of advanced age are increasingly living in our mild climate, and they are growing indecently older and older. That's the way Westfold gets a Florida look. So parental care is a particularly demanding task for the Vestfold municipalities. I am pleased that the so-called Sørheim Committee is now assessing changes in the income system. The selection shall deliver its position in the harvest and the Government intends to make changes from 2009. In this respect, I have noticed that the majority of the municipal committee wants an assessment of the cost keys in the income system based on the experience we have gained with the distribution effects of today's system. It's with a certain expectation I look forward to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1033	The Rokkansenter in Bergen provided a report on housing construction a short time ago. They have made the report on behalf of the Ministry, and they have some concrete proposals that I hope will be good policy in 2008. We have to, as I said in my main post, revisit the social housing. It is unworthy that we still have so many homeless people in this country. It is unworthy that so many do not have the opportunity to enter the housing market because of the high entry tickets. What was pointed out in the report is that we need to get closer cooperation between the municipalities, the House Bank, the housing co-operation, etc. to obtain enough rental properties at a price that people have the opportunity to pay. Of course, we also need to increase the construction of student housing. In 2008, we have to start social housing policy, with the construction of several dwellings, so that everyone has the opportunity to enter the housing market. I sincerely hope that in the budgets and in other ways in 2008 we will be able to show that we are repatriating social housing. The school building loan scheme has been exhausted. That means that the envelope we've allocated at NOK 15 billion is filled in. Still, there is a great need, and this system has actually worked very well. It has been a good incentive. The municipalities have applied, the municipalities have received an interest subsidy, and we have been fixed and refurbished our school buildings. So I hope, as the committee also writes in its comment, that we're getting a system in place. I believe that a similar system that we have had now should be re-established and that state funding for housing will continue. We have some problems with putting the economic system around, cf. the change we made in the responsibility for the teaching of child protection institutions, where the county council took over. We introduced the funding into the framework transfer. Since these institutions are not evenly distributed across the country, we have a problem. There's a challenge. We've solved the problem, we think. Now maybe we haven't been 100 pst. lucky, but pretty much we've found a good way to do it in 2007. But when we look ahead, and we're going to make that kind of change, it's important that we find schemes that make the county councils or municipalities that get the increased costs also get compensation, and then the general income transfer system is not what works best. So we always have to be on guard when we change the kind of systems, so that we find schemes that hit those who want the money, the county councils or municipalities that get the increased costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1048	It was with wonder that I read the opposition's comments on the municipal proposition, and I have been sitting and listening to the debate here today. One is actually trying to make it look like there has not been a significant increase in the income of the municipalities under the red-green government. Frankly, speakers from both the Right and the Advance Party have long admitted that it was a God’s closing that there was a change of regime. None of the right-wing spokesmen around the country have raised the vote and said no thanks, I don't want these extra money, I'll send them back as well. Because that's not the change of exchange we've given them. It's a real raise of $14.5 billion from 2005 to 2007. It's a lot of money. Then I heard that the Progress Party was concerned that it would become interest rate increase. Yes, I would also have been concerned if I had submitted their budget proposals. I just have to admit that. Right is concerned about the Government's business policy. Well, at least it's a fact that 100,000 of the unemployed are working after the government change. Isn't this positive, then? The majority of public service production is carried out in municipalities, in both small and large municipalities. This directly interferes with the everyday life of people at all ages. The fact that we have seen the turbo when it comes to babysitting, and have built 16 100 new places – in addition to the fact that it has not cost us our shirts – must be very nice when everyone appears. Can't a little boast about it? This, of course, makes it possible for more people to participate in the labour market, and they can be sure that their children have a good supply when they themselves are at work. Only then, as parents, we have good things to do too. When it comes to the nursery sector, I'm very proud of the government's bet, but I'm not happy until everyone gets there. Everyone who wants it should have a children's room. The phase-in of SFO with one hour more is another important step to take. As a parent, I'm very happy with this, and I think that's all, same game they belong to. When the municipalities cheer over the government lottery prize, the opposition sits on Stortinget. One would almost think that none of them had old parents -- who can now get the help they need -- or that no one has had to sit around for kindergarten, to name two things. The government has fulfilled the promise of the Soria Moria Declaration and has given the municipalities extra space for action. That's what she praises for. That not everything is happy and fun in the municipalities, we admit happily. We're proud of how far we've come, but we're not happy until everyone's there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1067	I had initially not intended to take part in this debate, because I thought this was probably the municipal committee's domain. But after following much of the debate, I was no longer able to hold on. I thought there was a bit of a lot of self-confidence and a bit of an attack on the politics of other parties, and then I found the need to make a small remark, among other things. to the representative signe eye, and also to the hill of Hage, which was before this a little while ago. When you hear these posts, it's quite typical that everything that goes well in Norway is the profits of the Norwegian Royal Labour Party, and everything that goes wrong or has gone wrong, and that's shaky and crooked and bad and difficult, is the fault of others. It's quite typical. There's very little space for nuances and recognition that things are actually connected. Yes, we have a municipal economy today that is in clear recovery, but it has been for a long time. We must also acknowledge that the Bondevik government's residence in 2001 did not include exactly a municipal economy characterised by gold and green forests. It was a municipal economy that had major problems, with a significant number of municipalities that were in deficit, and where we – quite rightly – spent a couple, three years turning the economy upside down. We did that, and it's clearly documented both by the KOSTRA figures and by the Statistical Central Bureau. From 2004 it turned around. To give an example to my own county: in 2005, the last year Erna Solberg – which has been much mentioned in this debate – was the municipal minister, there were 15 out of 18 municipalities in my county that went with profits. In 2006, there were 16 out of 18 municipalities with profits. This shows that the economy turned long before the red-greens took place in the government offices. This tax relief has been a key point for the red-green representatives. If these tax reliefs have been so terrible, why not the red-greens in the world then go back to 2001 levels? Why have they then chosen to keep 16 of the 24 billion given in tax relief? It's really funny, if this is the cause of everything that's bad and difficult. Why haven't you then zeroed out all the tax credits instead of keeping almost 70 pst. by them? I'm just asking. But the main problem and the main challenge, not least for several population-rich counties and municipalities in the eastern region, is a completely unfair income system for municipalities. There we have expectations, yes, more have probably. But I'm afraid they're once again disappointed by a municipal minister from a party that's not particularly concerned about adding up to changes that benefit counties and municipalities where there are people living.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1080	This has in many ways become a somewhat backward debate, because some of the members of the government parties simply cannot listen to a proper presentation of the development of the municipality of Norway. That's why I'm going to once again bring out Rolf Requam's post as an post that I think gives a presentation everyone should really be able to join, but doing one, of course Tore Hagebakken's posts would be impossible to keep. And there had been nothing particularly pleasant about a campaign in which one has decided to deliver the same message as one did two years ago. I think it's a message that won't fall into any very good soil, because the situation in Kommune-Norway isn't in any way as pink as some here would like it to be. I am concerned that the government parties have now conducted a debate on the local economy in 2008 without any of the representatives having addressed the key challenges facing municipalities next year. It doesn't promise well. It is not good to promise that no one from the government parties has brought forward the significant challenges that Kommune-Norway is facing in getting people to do the most important tasks. If we are to provide good care with quality and knowledge, Kommune-Norway has major challenges in getting enough qualified personnel. Too many people who currently work in the care service are unskilled and jobs in part-time jobs. In particular, none of the government parties have brought forward the challenges that Kommune-Norge is currently facing, linked to the fact that interest rate developments are in the process of absorbing large parts of the growth that need not be said about, because it is at least well-informed in their posts – no medicine for how to stop that development. And none of the government parties have talked about how one can contribute in ways other than through the economy to help municipalities raise the quality of school, to meet the enormous challenges that the school is now facing, to get access to new, qualified and engaged teachers, to create a school where people go out with knowledge. That's what these three parties are going to lose the year's election. They're no longer part of reality. They live on their own pink cloud.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1090	I feel the need to correct some statements that have come from this pulpit in the course of the day, especially from the representative Hagebakken, who is trying to present the earlier efforts of the Progress Party, where we are trying to get an extra billion elderly, such as populism. Yes, he almost presents it as if this is an electoral campaign. This, of course, falls on its own unreasonableness, because if you go back and look at our alternative state budget for 2007, and to some extent also for 2006, you will see that we do the same kind of priorities in the budgets. It is also a little strange that you try to make earmarking of money for the care of the elderly as negative. The government is earmarking funds for nursery schooling. The government is earmarking funds for kindergarten development. But they won't do it in relation to the elderly and the elderly. It seems to me to some extent a dual morality when you argue in one area to use tools to serve a group, while in other areas you don't. Here, if you have such fundamental problems with earring, you should carry it out all over the line. The representative Slagsvold Vedum from the Center Party is trying to present it as if the policy of the Advance Party would affect small municipalities in the districts. It's totally wrong. If there's a policy that really wants to enable the small municipalities out in the districts to do the job that's the most important, yes, it's the policy of the Progress Party. The most important job to do in small municipalities, which are located around the country, is to provide good basic welfare services. And that is what we do best by means of price financing, which the Progress Party has proposed repeatedly, but which, unfortunately, the other parties have not carried on. In today's case, the whole system of resource-intensive services is being reworked, which is good, but I stress that it is actually a step towards price financing. And that's where government parties do the opposite of what they say. The representative Hegø spoke about interest rate increase and almost tried to ridicule the policy of the Progress Party, as if our policy would lead to interest rate increase. Then I just have to remember the statistical central agency's calculations of our alternative state budget for the current year, which shows that it would give a lower interest rate increase than what we all see the government's policy entails. In fact, the interest cost received by municipalities, as a result of an increase in interest rates, means as much as any increase in free income.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1101	Mr Reikvam had the floor twice earlier in the debate and was given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1104	According to Bent Höie, we live on a rose-red cloud. I'm sure we're well placed in real life. I feel that many of us have tried to talk about current problems for 2008. I've talked twice about housing policy. Bent Höie hasn't commented on it once. Yet I have not claimed that he does not live in reality, and that he lives on a rose-red cloud. I feel like we're taking seriously the challenges we're facing. So we obviously have a little bit of different definitions of reality. The reason why I asked for the word was Martin Engeset's post. It's the way to define profit and net operating surplus, and it's an expression that now the economy has turned around. It's not. We must not, to a large extent, present it as such. Net operating surplus, what Martin Engeset called profit, is not an expression that now the municipal economy is good, now you produce services, now people get what they really need to ask for. It's not, so this is going to be completely wrong, if he uses those definitions this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1111	First to the representative, Höie, who says that we are not concerned with quality development and the challenges the municipalities face. It's directly wrong. One of the things we have talked about in depth in the setting, on pages 21 and 22, is the quality municipality project – how we can develop the municipal sector, and how we can keep people in the labour market longer, through cooperation between the employee and the employer. We have a careful comment on that in the setting. The representative, Mr Løite, on behalf of the government fraction, made statements on the very importance of a good employer policy. So to the Progress Party and that we give a wrong representation of reality. They say that their proposal to increase the company tax, the municipality's share, to 4,25 p.m., and to keep a greater proportion of the taxpayer in the municipalities – which is a proposal The Right and the Progress Party are united – will not have a negative district effect. It's directly misleading. There is no doubt that if we had done the grips the Progress Party and the Right raised, there are many municipalities that would have lost, and someone who would have won. Which would lose? Well, the municipalities where there are many that have low income, where there is a weak nutrient base. Those who had won were the municipalities that have high incomes, and where there is a broad nutrient base. So it's just to think for yourself, is it in the cities or in the districts? So there is no doubt that the policy we have in relation to cohesion is the opposite of the Right and Advance Party, because they want to move resources from the districts to more central areas of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1118	The representative, Mr Hagebakken, has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1121	Bent Höie is going to be a little bit right. If you have a strong need to focus on something starting to turn in the right direction before we entered the government corridors, it is a bit right, because in 2003 the Bondevik government concluded a budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. Then a couple of billion kroner were put into the pot. It was a good start. So then we might be able to put that discussion dead. But there was good speed in the matter only when we found other partners and we were able to fasten as we wanted. Now, we're going to get on with the municipalities, which are good team players. The Progress Party is in favour of the fundamental law fixing of local self-government, but for price financing so it consumes. There's a little bit of a contradiction in that. They need to know little about their own price financing scheme, when they compare it with the resource-intensive services scheme, because it is a completely different matter. It is a top-level funding scheme to remove peaks in very special cases, which the other income system, the framework funding, is unable to capture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1128	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3596]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1144	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1153	An overall committee refers to the overall objective of working for the introduction of electronic voting outside the electoral area in order to make it easier and less costly for voters to exercise their democratic rights. The Committee also considers that such voting may facilitate increased voting participation in some electoral groups. The secret choice principle is particularly difficult to maintain when voting outside the approved polling facility. Of course, one must also avoid speculation about the purchase and sale of votes, and about the validity of the election result. In all electronic voting, it is essential to choose a solution that guarantees the right to anonymity and, furthermore, that it is not possible to withdraw from the system what a person has chosen or whether he has actually cast a vote or not. There are shared opinions on the extent to which the confidentiality requirement is compatible with electronic voting. This issue does not have the same focus in all countries. In Switzerland, for example, many votes in ordinary letters. I guess it would have been unimaginable here in the country. In Estonia, e-voting has been used without technology ensuring the choice against undue influence. SMS in normal elections is probably not used in any other country we can compare with, not even in Finland, where the mobile phone industry is strong. The representative's proposal in Document No. 8:85 was submitted on 10 May of this year, and invites for pilot trials on electronic voting at the time of the autumn selection. The municipalities are already well-informed in their electoral systems, such as: is based on decisions here in Stortinget earlier this spring. It must be noted that the proposal comes in recent years. It is only after successive, successful trials and the necessary sensitivity that the systems can be ensured that electronic choices can be made. These recommendations form the basis for the work of the Government. A joint committee believes that such attempts do not depend on normal choices. In some municipalities, election results show that the fight for the last mandate can be very even. In large elections, there are examples of a majority and minority change after the financier count has been completed. This clearly shows that each vote counts, and that a few votes may have a decisive impact on the outcome of the elections, and on which representative will be elected. In view of this, it is necessary to consider voting outside the polling room in an uncontrolled environment. A comprehensive committee will highlight in particular two challenges related to the introduction of voting via the Internet and SMS. One is to ensure that the person voting is entitled to vote. The second is to make sure that the election is secret. Political perception is a sensitive information that requires consent for treatment. Such consent must be protected in such a way that it is granted on a voluntary basis. A comparison with the electronic processing of e.g. the declaration is, in so far as, technologically, relevant, but it must in fact be taken into account that parts of the declaration are already public. It is unlikely that anyone would be interested in putting pressure on someone in connection with the delivery of the declaration. For the Internet bank, there are many examples of police cases where there has been burglary or unregulated use. The traceability of transactions by the banking connection is an important reason for resolving such issues. The same applies to the mobile phone. For electronic selection systems, the Data Protection Authority clarifies that traceability must not occur. This does not apply to the tax return and to the net bank. The Labour Party wishes to see all measures that can help to increase the turnout welcome. E-vomiting outside the polling can contribute to this. In the context of such new voting opportunities, strict safety requirements must be imposed so that the voter does not lose confidence. An urgent introduction, already in the autumn, can be seen as a trendy positioning, so that you can look like the most up-to-date batch. I am pleased that the Government is not dealing with matters that way, but has a responsible offensive attitude to exploit the benefits that technology gives us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1179	I don't expect this to be a debate on the fact that it's worrying that the voter's going down. Nor do I expect this to be a debate about whether there are actually more people who would benefit from the voting rights if you were given the opportunity to vote via the Internet or SMS, and that there is a strengthening of democracy if more people use the voting rights. I don't think there will be any debate about whether there is any doubt that most people want to have the opportunity to vote via the Internet or SMS. There is undoubtedly an overwhelming majority who want this. On the other hand, I note that it is argued against supporting the proposal of the Progress Party to launch a pilot project in which, in this election, some municipalities are allowed to carry out a limited amount of voting via the Internet and SMS, because the technology is not there, and that it is too early to make this the choice now. I refer you to the majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, who writes in the note that: «in practice, it will not be possible to carry out trials with such votes within sound processes and the necessary safety already at the time of the harvest selection». Well – I wonder about that. Where did you get that? All the municipalities that have submitted hearing opinions said yes, and several of them asked to participate in such an attempt. Has the rapporteur or anyone else in the Committee been in contact with anyone in the ICT community here in Norway about this? I got it. Among other things, I have The talk with the ICT industry’s partner organisation, ICT Norway, which says clearly: Norwegian IT companies have the expertise and technology, and it is safe enough. They're willing to do business now. In fact, Norwegian ICT competence and technology are very highly recognised internationally. IBM has a very good technique on this. They have also recently purchased Nordic Language Technology at Voss. Furthermore, Telenor and Netcom have technology on this with SMS. There is also relatively well-known technology in the Norwegian company Carrot Lager, and they handle many of these solutions. They include: lead in this field internationally. It also has the data company Kantega, which has provided solutions for the network choice in savings banks here in Norway. They say straight away that Norway is at the top of the world in terms of this technology. I have also been in contact with the state company ErgoGroup, which is a subsidiary of Posten Norway. They have an electoral department consisting of the top experts in Norway in IT support for the implementation of elections, whether it is national elections for stockpiling and jointing, local elections for local government and county councils, or whether there is a choice of employee representatives for governors of Norwegian limited liability companies. They say straight away that they can offer their solutions now for the autumn’s choices – if there is a majority for it today. Black on white is also stated in a letter dated 12 March 2007 from the group leader in Posten Norway Dag Mejdell, sent to the municipal minister Åslaug Haga. I quote parts of the letter: ‘Norway considers it appropriate to launch more pilots in the municipal and county elections of the year. The testing schemes should cover both several municipalities and be organised for Nordic residents abroad so that we can gain the necessary experience in electronic choices for future municipal and wholesale elections. The technology is here, ready to be tested on a larger scale. Norway, which is one of the world’s most digitised countries, should also be in the forefront in this area and ensure that no more coals of young voters are excluded from participation in elections.’ If this is really the case, as someone here claims, that the Norwegian IT industry does not have the capacity, or that the technology here is not good enough, as the majority writes – yes, then I can personally call the Estonian IT company Cybernetica, which is behind the technology used in the municipal elections in Estonia in 2005, and in the parliamentary elections in Estonia now in March 2007. They're probably going to like to take it on. If you listen to the opponents of this proposal, it sounds like the proposal is about replacing today's electoral system. It doesn't. It is a limited experiment – i.e. two or three municipalities – and then as a complement to today’s way of doing it. I would also like to make it clear that it is the voter himself who decides whether to vote via the Internet or SMS, just as one decides whether to use the Internet bank, and whether to send the SMS or the Internet. In conclusion, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1211	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1214	The launch of a pilot project which opens up the Internet and SMS voting procedures at the municipal and county elections for the autumn is an interesting proposal, which could have been the basis for serious discussion. But above all, the proposal has one decisive, negative chin, which has also been pointed out by the rapporteur: it is too late. This is undoubtedly the main reason why several of us have chosen not to consider it in this context. That is also why I did not initially need to go into any debate on the proposal. Now that it is so strongly called for to implement it, I do not think it can be quite uncontradicted. As we record, a large majority of the committee has opposed the proposal, mainly on the basis that I have now outlined. From the Christian People's Party, I can only say that with the development we are witnessing in electronic communications today, there should be no doubt that one would not be willing to look at the possibilities of using this technology, for example. to increase voting participation in public elections. This requires a careful examination, as correctly pointed out by the rapporteur. Of course, such testing of electronic voting must take place in controlled forms, where safety, etc. is indispensable. This is detailed in the Committee's observations. It goes without saying that it would be quite impossible to make such a test in a proper manner even until the harvest, so short a time away. It is also an indispensable requirement for any pilot project to be carefully planned. It must be planned to provide for lessons learned in retrospect, which can then be used to design a more permanent scheme. An urgent project, as this would be, is doomed to failure. The Storting cannot be known to start. Of course it's just. This is not something you can just decide to ‘outsource’ to a private ICT company – as seriously as it may be – during a few summer weeks. I think everyone will understand that. However, I note that the Progress Party seems to believe that this is realistic. It'll be on their account. A faulty project in this area may at best focus on wasted time and money and, in the worst case, contribute to destroying future projects, including: as a result of mistrust of the use of the technology. It would be quite serious. Public choices may be vulnerable mechanisms. You don't experiment with that, but it's thoroughly prepared. I am therefore surprised by the sum total that the Progress Party only chooses to close its eyes to reality and continues to make every effort to have this proposal adopted. Everyone has to see that it's totally unrealistic. We're already in the middle of June. The election is September 10. Of course, this is how you can do it when you know in advance that a proposal will not go through. Then, of course, it can be used for what it is worth in retrospect, but serious craftsmanship is far from being.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1229	I am absolutely sure that at some point we will vote via SMS or the Internet. In this sense, there's an exciting discussion Progress Party has started here. But I'm glad that the majority in the Stortinget keeps their heads cold and doesn't agree with a proposal that could put the trust in our entire electoral system at risk. The Norwegian way of voting may not be so modern, but our electoral system has confidence. It's a much more important value. A working group, on behalf of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, has examined whether we should introduce the possibility of voting electronically. Their report, entitled ‘Electronic voting – challenges and opportunities’, is very thorough. There is one that addresses all the challenges of this type of voting. I think, as I said, that at some point we are going to offer voters to vote electronically, as a supplement to voting with paper ballots, but to vote electronically involves a major reform of our electoral system. Election reform must be properly prepared to maintain the high level of confidence. We also need to make sure that the systems to be used are working properly. Electronic voting raises several fundamental and difficult questions not only of a technical nature – as the Progress Party appears later – but also, perhaps more importantly, of a legal, democratic and administrative nature. The most important issue is how to take account of the basic principle of secret balloting. Election authorities are obliged to facilitate the situation, so that all voters ‘may vote unseen and protected from undue influence’ – as stated in the legislation – and to whom all actors, including internationally, are concerned. The principle that one should be able to cast one’s voice ‘inset’ and protected from ‘irreprehensible influence’, I say very loudly. We need to find solutions to how we're going to deal with this before we move into a new order. Summary: Electronic voting is future, but I want us to hurry slowly. That's exactly what we're doing. There is a plan for how we can try. Trials will be carried out already in the autumn in connection with the selection of schools in Buskerud. I believe that there is some sort of experiment that will be wise. We can't trust the electoral system. Everyone who casts a vote shall be sure that their vote counts. It is the electoral authority, we as political authorities, who must govern this development, not private IT companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1244	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1247	I feel that the Council of State is very sceptical about such a new arrangement, innovation, which could increase the turnout. I want to ask the State Council if she thinks that the mobile phone and the Internet have come to stay, but I do not. It may seem too unprofessional. I would like to ask the Council of State what she will do with the dramatic downward turnout that we experience around Norway, if she does not want to use new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1252	I have just said that I believe that voting over the Internet and using mobile phones is future. I really believe that. We're going to work in that direction, because our society is moving in a direction where it's at least as natural to use electronics as to relate to things in other ways. But we are not there today that we have solved the problems. The first point is that we have to be absolutely sure that there is no «tariff» in the systems that means that votes can be balanced or abused, and the second point is that we have not solved the problem of voting being cast unseen and without undue pressure. I understand that the Progress Party is little concerned that you should be sure that people can vote unseen and without undue pressure, but the Government is very concerned about that very relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1259	Now there was a lot I wanted to ask, but I only have 1 minute. Finally, the State Council told Haga in its statement that we cannot leave this to private IT companies. It's too serious to be left to private. Would it mean that the State Council Haga does not trust private IT companies, not even the State subsidiary of Posten Norge AS, ErgoGroup? They have actually been responsible for election solutions for as long as I can remember – for the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1267	I've been working in an IT company, and I've seen the complexity of the technology. Per. Today, as an electoral authority, we are not sure that, for example: a voice can't be traced that we can be 100 pst. ensure that there is no abuse of codes and inputs in different ways. Per. Today, as an electoral authority, we are not sure that we have patents enough technological systems. The big, jumping point, seen from my point of view, is about how we're going to solve the challenges of not sitting on someone's neck when one votes. So one should not be under undue pressure when one casts the vote. We haven't solved the problem of how to ensure that people are unseen at the moment they voice electronically.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1274	I was a little shocked that the Council of State could say that the Progress Party is not interested in secrecy, and is not interested in the vote being unaffected by others. I'm wondering where the state councils have it from.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1279	I've just listened to the posts here today, and I've recorded that what you focus primarily on is the technological possibilities you have. I have heard very little reflection on the issues related to the fact that votes are to be cast unseen and without undue pressure. Nothing would please me more than whether this is a problem that the Progress Party is more concerned with than what they have given the impression of in the vocabulary in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1284	I thought it would have been a little reasonable for the council to read the setting, because the Progress Party is in the plural until what goes on in the time aspect. All the remainder of the case spokesman's statements support the Progress Party. I thought this was far across the border compared to what I expected from a serious state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1289	It is very tempting to put a question back to the Progress Party, and it is: How does the Progress Party feel that the issue of a vote can be resolved unseen and without undue pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1294	Now I took a line on the Haga Council, and not the other way around. I'll sign up on the list of speakers, and then I'll answer what the government council Haga challenged the Progress Party. I was going to ask Haga State Council, which referred to the fact that the working group would not allow this as an attempt. As I understand it, it is actually three to four municipalities in Norway that have already carried out electronic voice testing in a controlled environment. It is mentioned in the report. The attempt was a success. What we're now proposing is step 2. I would like to quote from the working group: « the working group recommends testing electronic voting in an uncontrolled environment on a smaller scale for special groups; [[...]] [[e.g. foreign residents, disabled persons or individual municipalities]] Does the Council of State Haga agree with the Working Party that there should be attempts in some municipalities, or does she not agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1308	In the case of voting in a controlled environment, there is no problem whatsoever. It's just a smarter way of counting. We want to encourage everyone to move on with that. What is the big challenge is related to what you do in an uncontrolled environment. We will continue to work on finding solutions where we can also implement choices electronically in an uncontrolled environment, but per. Today we do not have enough security around this to do so. But we have an offensive relationship to this and are systematically working towards getting to where I feel sure that we are coming, namely that votes can also be cast per. network and per. mobile.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1323	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1326	In order to have a living democracy, it is important that all voters use their voting rights. The PC, the Internet, mobile phones and text messages think I've come to stay. There are funds that we should use and that we should use now. The proposal is intended as a pilot project in some municipalities at the municipal and county elections this autumn. In the high-tech world we live in, it makes sense that we use the teaconologist we use every day, even now for the election. Experience from other countries has shown that choices can be fully implemented, among others. via the Internet. We also see what is possible when we submit the declaration, which is done today via SMS and the Internet, while at the same time being able to take care of personal safety. One of the reasons why the Progress Party wants such a scheme is the falling turnout, which we are concerned about, which we also have in Norway. In particular, we see it among the young people, who are the very clear target group for such a scheme. Many would probably have said that the biggest target audience is not those who are going to decide on this proposal. I therefore believe that making it easier for voters to vote is very likely that more people will avail themselves of the voting rights, which can help reverse the trend and increase participation. When we see what the turnout in Estonia has done, there has been an increasing turnout; 5.5 pst. of votes cast was just given over the Internet – can we afford not to try this? There are probably some old-fashioned bigotry representatives who are sceptical about this new development. Then I just want to remind you that today's electoral system, with paper choices, is not sure enough, as Norway received criticism from international electoral observers at the latest at the last elections. It's not sure enough either. Why not start the pilot project? It should be a wake-up call for those who are sceptical about voting over the Internet. Finally, it is not likely that ageing wholesalers will decide on this proposal, the largest target group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1343	Fortunately, it is rare that the Progress Party presents its unprofessional pages as clearly as they do in this matter. There is no disagreement about the need for and the desire to bring up the turnout. This is why, a long time ago, a working group has been set up to deal with these questions. However, the Progress Party does not address the real issues, and the real issues are not whether the IT industry in Norway can deliver electronic ballot boxes. They can. The real issues are, as both the rapporteur and the municipal minister have pointed out: How can you be sure that the elections remain secret, that you cannot trace who has voted what, and above all, when you have to do it outside the controlled environment, how can you be sure that the voter is the voter and without undue pressure? You don't go into it at all. Instead, they try to present it as if there are some old bigots representatives who, unlike some modern, forward-looking young bigots representatives, have failed to realize that IT and SMS have come to be. It is a level of debate that the Progress Party itself should remain too good at. Then the representative, Lodve Solholm, shows that you are in favour of the majority remarks. But at the same time, the debate shows that the realities and seriousness of these comments have not been taken into account. The question to be answered by the Progress Party – in addition to how to deal with the real issues related to that type of voting in an uncontrolled environment – is: Why was this proposal submitted so late? This isn't something that someone's come up with during this spring. There have been working groups in turn, and it has been working on this for a long time. Why was it delivered so late that it was almost impossible to handle it – it is 90 days before the election? If the Progress Party had been interested in having this proposal adopted, it would have been delivered a year ago. Now it is delivered so late, in order that it will be voted down. You'll try to show it as if there are some young, modern people who understand what's coming, and some old people who haven't realized it. As unprofessional as the Progress Party has dealt with this matter, I hope it will be long before we experience again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1362	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1365	There was a lot to do here. To take the last one first, why has the Progress Party not proposed this earlier? If the committee had worked a little more on the matter, they might have found a proposal from two or three years ago – Document No. 8:76 in 2003-2004, representatives from Øystein Hedstrøm, Lodve Solholm, Ulf Erik Knudsen and Christopher Stensaker – about exactly the same. The undersigned also contacted Haga via a written question to the Council of State for approx. Six months ago, about this. So this is nothing new from the Progress Party. The Norwegian IT industry itself says that the technology is there, and it is safe enough. I don't think it makes any sense to discuss it further. Haga is very uncertain about how to avoid the voters being subjected to pressure, or that someone is behind you and you might get a gun in your head with threats of voting on it and that party, etc. They have had the same debate in other countries, and you have to look at how they have resolved it. I'm starting to wonder if you've actually gotten involved in this. In Estonia, for example, there are pre-selections, so that you can vote in advance. If you are subject to pressure there and then, you can log in again and vote again, until the election day. It can also be opened so that you can actually go into the polling room on election day and vote in the usual way – if you have been subjected to pressure. There are different ways to solve it, and the point of the Progress Party is that we have to make a try, not just talk about it. I would also like to remind you that this working group, to which it is constantly referred, was appointed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on 26 May 2004. It's been three years. It is also a good time since the working group's report was completed, and it is actually such that technological progress is very rapid, and much has happened in the last two or three years. Furthermore, I am a little surprised that there are no experiences and references in this report. According to what I read, from sources other than the working group's report, among others. on the Internet, the Swiss city of Bülach has tested voting via SMS in various political matters. It is not just in England that the report refers to. Furthermore, in 2000, the Democratic Party in Arizona, U.S.A., carried out its primary election over the Internet seven years ago. We continue to say here in Norway, seven years later: No, we cannot test this out in a few municipalities. It's unprofessional.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1380	It is rare for me to have so clearly confirmed what I said about why the Progress Party has been so late in submitting this proposal for a representative. Because that was what Rytman did when he showed that they had suggested this earlier, two to three years ago. Yes, just – and he had asked questions six months ago. Why have you waited five months to submit a proposal for a representative that requires careful consideration and that requires a change in the law? Why have you waited so long? Well, precisely because you wanted a debate where you were going to try to put a stamp on someone, not to get it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1385	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1404	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1423	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1442	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1458	It is a pleasure for me to have been the case rapporteur for the annual report of the Company this year. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and would like to express great satisfaction that there is such a broad consensus in this country in the view of Sami issues. An overall committee, i.e. all lots, with the exception of the Party of Advancement, shall agree on all the observations in this case. It is not possible in a brief article to address everything that concerns the Sami communities. I have to draw up something, and it is not that what is not mentioned is not considered important. The 2005 Annual Report presents the work of the Sameting, the tasks of the Sameting and economic and administrative challenges. Since the conclusion of the consultation procedure agreement on 11 May 2005, consultations have been held with the Sameting in a number of cases. An adviser has been developed for State authorities’ consultations with the Sametinget and any other Sami interests. The majority note that government administrations may also be required to consult with the Sámi interests concerned other than the Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi, for example. directly with the reindeer industry. The majority of the Committee is aware that the Sameting is facing many challenges in the preservation of the Sami culture and language in the future. The merger is now within its fifth period as a elected body, and the tasks and responsibilities of the Sameting are extensive. The majority, therefore, look forward to a policy communication on the common policies for treatment for the autumn — a communication that addresses among others. The formal position of the merger and the budgetary procedures between the Government and the Federation. The majority share the view of the Ministry of Consensus and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion that there has been a need for a major and comprehensive review of the Consensus electoral system in order to look at all aspects of the elections, including: breakdown of the choice circuit, the number of representatives from the various constituencies and the choice structure itself. A central element of the broad agreement on the Finnland Act was the establishment of a Commission to monitor collective and private rights of use and ownership acquired by joint and other parties in Finland. A specialised court shall also be established to judge disputes which may arise in the wake of the screening. The majority regard the development of regulations on the local and rights-based management of fishing resources in the Tana and Neiden watercourses as a high priority. The same applies to the investigation of the right of Samers and others to fish off the coast of Finnmark. The majority of the Committee refers to the fact that the draft Nordic Convention has now been consulted and looks forward to pursuing further work on the Convention in Norway, Sweden and Finland. A Nordic co-convention is proposed to aim at facilitating cross-border interaction between co-workers. The majority of the Committee considers it important that the action plan ‘Mangfold and equivalency’ should continue. An equivalent health and social service throughout the country must be the objective. This applies, inter alia, to: the need for Sami-speaking health professionals and child protection, mental health and care personnel. The Sami population needs to be provided with the necessary health care and information in its own language. In areas of southern and lulesamic settlement, there are particularly major challenges in this area. Sami children and young people are entitled to an equivalent and culturally adapted child protection service. Professionals, treatment institutions, municipal and public bodies must take into account the linguistic and cultural identity and way of life of Sami children and young people in their relief measures. The status of the Sami language must be increased in order to preserve it for the future, and development opportunities must be ensured. Language is one of the most fundamental elements of Sami culture. A living language presupposes its active use in the Sami population, both at home and in public space. Sami languages have developed little modern words and expressions. Increased resources for continuous terminology work are therefore important. The work on vitalising, preserving and developing the Sami languages is therefore very important. Sami students today have an individual right to training in Sami language wherever they live, but in order for Sami students to receive training in Sami they must be a group of at least 10 students. The majority have noticed that the Ministry has an assessment of the right to training in Sami to become an individual right, and that is very good. The educational situation in the Sami school needs to be improved considerably. Only then will the rights to Sami training become real. It is now important to develop more and new learning materials adapted to the knowledge promise Sami than those available today, including Sami digital learning materials for use in distance learning. There is also a need to develop a continuous Sami curriculum for the whole of basic training and plans for current Sami subjects and apprenticeships. The majority will also highlight the importance of ensuring that the Elga Growth Centre in Elverum is provided with funds to enable the language motivation project at school to continue in the future. The State Sámi secondary schools in Karasjok and Kautokeino must also be given an opportunity to have a varied range of courses with both general and professional courses in the future. Both schools have a central place in basic training for Sami students from all over the country and are therefore of great importance for the further development and preservation of the Sami culture and the Sami language. It's very positive that a new science building is under construction in Kautokeino, where the foundation building for the building took place now on Monday. For a long time, there has been a desire to co-locate several central Sami institutions in order to establish an integrated competence centre in a wider environment. There is also a need for a joint Sami research committee for Norway, Sweden and Finland. This could contribute to good use of resources by coordinating research in the three Nordic countries. The majority of the Committee considers it important that the appropriations allocated to the Sami cultural institutions are sufficient to enable them to be developed and maintained. It is therefore positive that the construction of the East Sami museum will be started. There is also a great need for the projects of Aja Sami centres in Kåfjord, Saemien Sijte in Snåsa and the art museum in Karasjok to be realised. It is not sustainable in the long run that valuable Sami art is stored in a cellar by Sámaid Vuorká-Dávvirat in Karasjok. The majority also regard Sami theatres and festivals as important venues for Sami art and culture and as important meeting places for the Sami population and others. As a Sami National Theatre, Beaivvás Sámi Teahter needs better conditions to work under, and a separate theatre building should therefore be the target. The majority of the Committee considers that it is now high time that national Sami daily newspapers became a reality in both Sami and Norwegian. We have noticed that, among other things. the majority of different municipal committees in the last four years have highlighted the strong desire and the great need of the Sami community for Sámi newspapers throughout the country. It is crucial for the dissemination of information, the development of identity and the democracy of the Sami community that framework conditions are now provided for this. Large parts of the Sámi value base are from ancient times until today related to a life closely related to nature. At the same time, the Sami community has largely adapted to today's knowledge and information society. It is important to facilitate the maintenance and development of viable reindeer management, fisheries, agricultural and combined industries in the Sami regions. In addition, the active substances must be sufficient, in order, inter alia, to: developing opportunities are ensured for doudji, inland fishing and other off-shore industries. The Sami communities need to be guaranteed a basis for sustainable development in the future. It is therefore essential to ensure the grazing basis for a sustainable reindeer industry, as it constitutes a very important support in the Sami culture and in the Sami language. This is the basis for the grazing of an industry that will be involved and ensure the continuation of the Sami culture and the language of future generations. As long as the land base of the industry is constantly curtailed, it will also be difficult to get up-to-date with the reindeer adaptation. It is therefore essential that it is not initiated, for example. major wind power projects with associated infrastructure, such as construction roads and lineways, before consultation of Sami interests. The majority of the Committee considers it important that we also contribute to ensuring the basis for robust agriculture in the Sami regions. Agriculture is an important Sami industry. Unfortunately, very many farms have been closed down in recent years. It is necessary to provide a searchlight on the recruitment of agricultural workers and measures are needed to make it more attractive for young people to take over farming. Major loss of predators leads to reduced sustainability both for agriculture and reindeer farming. It is therefore important that the Sameting may have a real impact on predatory policies in these areas. The majority of the Committee looks forward to the presentation of the study on the rights of Samers and others to fishing in the sea outside Finnmark. This is a follow-up to decisions taken by Stortinget during the examination of the Finnish law. It is important that the resource base of the Seasamian coastal and fjord regions is ensured for the future. Research on the king crab in the coastal and fjord areas of Finnmark must also be of high priority. The King crab has had a major and negative impact on fishermen in the coastal and fjord areas of Sámi. Motorised land migration needs to be regulated, but account must also be taken of the fact that the active use of land and the harvesting of land resources is at the heart of the Sami cultural exercise and the Sami way of life, and that these are important sources of income for many. Petroleum activities in the Barents Sea may have a direct impact on the Sami interests, in particular in the landing of oil and gas. Consultations with the Sameting are important in planning any landings. It is also of great importance that we have an oil protection system that can deal with any accidents under the tough climatic conditions we have in this area. There is a strong consensus in the Stortinget that the indigenous dimension should be an important part of Norwegian Northern Region policy. Climate change in the Arctic regions, and increased pressure on natural resources, can have enormous consequences for indigenous peoples in the north. The integration must therefore have an active role in the further work on our North Region initiative. On behalf of the majority, I am delighted to recommend the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1523	It is my hope and the Spring Party's hope that this is the last big period of time we are dealing with the activities of Sameting in this room. The pooling should be closed. The merger is an ethnically constituted body – a body which, in the view of the Progress Party, is totally incompatible with liberal democracy. There is discrimination in systems, based on ethnicity and cultural background. A nation like Norway that strikes the chest and wants to be a liberal democracy cannot be aware of having a policy where we have different rights and different arrangements for different parts of the population, based on ethnicity or cultural affiliation. Unfortunately, the new rights that have gradually been recognised and which are still being called for are creating conflicts in North Norway – conflicts that did not exist before. This may have passed the press in Akersgata – and perhaps most of the representatives who do not come from the northern part of the country – because not all the world is written about this in the capital press. But it's actually so that many northerners feel the situation you're about to get in North Norway now, as problematic. The Labour Party and the Government should perhaps listen to their own rapporteurs, not least in Finnmark, who warn of an uprising – a riot by the rapporteur – against the special rights that came not least as a product of the Finnmark Act. Let's listen to them and hear how they perceive the situation in the northernmost states. We see that new demands are still being promoted, for example. on specific rights to oil and gas resources based on ethnicity. But the question is, where is this going to end? Recently, we received information and transparency that the Sametinget has had so-called consultations with the Government in the preparation of a new planning and building law, in which the Sametinget is to be awarded a kind of veto in relation to the Nordic municipalities and municipalities in other parts of the country – 189 affected municipalities. You have to have a right of objection – a very strong one – that can override and lead the land management of these municipalities. This was unknown to the relevant municipalities before they read about it on the Sameting website. This is the situation and developments we have in North Norway, and I want to say that it is a very unwise policy to have in this Chamber, with the blessing of all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party – and I am proud of that – a policy in which an ethnic minority in Norway has been granted special rights that others do not have. I have to remind you that we actually have more minorities in Norway, including in the Nordic states, which, naturally, will be able to make similar demands. This creates precedents in relation to the new ethnic minorities we have received in Norway over the last decades through immigration. I'm afraid that this room is in the process of creating a policy, and has already done so, which will be very problematic in the future when you talk about equal rights for all people, not least in the three northernmost states. For this reason, today's Progress Party is promoting a Document No. 8-proposals in which we take a settlement with this ethnic discrimination that the Government stands for – and it goes as far as well into the policy of the Government in other areas – and proposes the abolition of the Finnland Act and the abolition of the Sameting. The party of progress appears to be the only party in this process that does not accept discrimination against people on the basis of ethnicity or culture. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1540	It might have been tempting to link many comments to the last post, but I'm just going to take advantage of this opportunity to say that the treatment of the Sameting's annual report is naturally characterized by a backward look. There is a message of an activity that has been. I want to contribute to the Stortinget being given the opportunity to discuss important common policy choices further. I believe that even if you do not have the starting point of the Progress Party, we are facing some fundamental issues in this Chamber that it is important that we go into. It is enough to mention questions related to, for example: The formal position of the merger, i.e. whether the merger should be a legal entity of its own and how the budget for the merger should be managed. It is also a very important issue relating to the proposal for a Nordic co-convention, which is based on the fact that together is one people in three countries, and whether we can see whether we can do so in a Nordic perspective, for example. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been asked to give its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. That is why, as the rapporteur was in the Chamber, I intend to come to the Grand Summit at the end of the year with a statement of principle on the common policy, not linked to the activity that has occurred, but to important political issues of principle in the coming period. That will give Stortinget a wide opportunity to deal with it. Only a few comments on the post from the representative Amundsen. I do feel that what is the big difference between the vision of the Progress Party, and what the other parties represent, is the question of whether Norway is one country with two people. As far as this issue is concerned, the vast majority of the majority in the United Kingdom are based on the fact that Norway is one country with two people. The very fact is that, fortunately, and rightly so, we are obliged by broad, well-recognized international agreements to organise democracy so that both groups of the people get their representative bodies. This does not mean that the Stortinget is not also a big deal for couples in Norway, but in addition, the other people in Norway have the opportunity, through their elected bodies, to express their views. When the Progress Party here shows that they are the only party that has a different view of the common policy given in this Chamber, the truth is that the Progress Party, once again, is going across a whole series of international agreements that Norway has concluded and that I am proud that we stand by in an international society. So just a very brief comment on this question of new planning and building law and the right to object to the Sameeting. The representative Amundsen now says that this comes as a surprise to the municipalities in Finnmark, and probably also to the county municipality in Finnmark. In fact, the NOU, which is based on a new planning and building law, which includes this proposal, has attended a wide consultation with all the municipalities in Norway, including the county municipality of Finnmark. All interested parties have had the opportunity to comment in a consultation process on that proposal. So saying that there has not been a basis for a hearing, and has not been possible, is an actual mistake. And it's clear that when you build your policy on a mistake, it's no wonder it's bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1556	First of all, with the surprise of the rapporteurs in Finnmark. It is a fact, and I think that the Government and the Council of State should take this into account, that rapporteurs in Finnmark, not least from the Labour Party, feel that this is surprising. Perhaps they saw something else in the NOU, perhaps they saw something else in the process that has been before, but the fact is that when they see – and experience – the effect of the government's policy, the effect of the Finnish law, etc., it is thus that very many of the Workers' Party's own people are against the Finnish law today. So to this with broad international agreements to which the Council of State referred. There is one agreement to which reference is made in relation to the Sámi Convention and it is ILO Convention No. 169, which can hardly be called a very broad agreement. It is a matter of 17 countries joining this country, and none other than Norway among the countries where they live, i.e. Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia, have acceded to that convention. How can the Council of State claim that these are broad international agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1565	I guess it's not the case that indigenous people's rights are solely based on ILO Convention No. 169. This is probably an example of the lack of analysis behind the position of the Progress Party. Reviewing the whole of the UN's management of indigenous issues, as well as the management of the issue of indigenous people by other human rights bodies, reveals that their rights are granted far greater scope than in the ILO Convention alone. Then it is a fact that the right of objection under the Planning and Building Act is mentioned in the NOU, and it has been consulted outside the municipalities. I must say that I believe that the rapporteurs in Finnmark – and the political system there – can read. They have read the proposal, and it has been at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1572	I'm trying to encourage the Council of State to sit down and read a little bit in the media, in newspapers from Finnmark. Then he might see that the situation is a little different than what he's trying to represent it as. On the contrary, it is rather so that the rapporteurs in Finnmark, not least from the Labour Party, feel that these are decisions that have been pushed down their heads, especially when there are consultations in advance of a consultation among the municipalities. But back to this with international conventions. The Council of States may refer to any place in the international conventions to which Norway has acceded, with the exception of ILO Convention No. 169, which provides the basis for us to have an ethnically based group elected assembly of co-workers in Norway? This is something that was originally intended and intended for Indians in South America. It was not intended to be a partner in Norway, to take it as a starting point. Then it becomes a little bit strange that you refer to all of the other conventions. Give me one example of a convention that justifies the Sameting in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1579	I constantly experience when I discuss with the representative Amundsen, that when he encounters opposition to what he expresses, he just slips off the farm and changes his position. Now Amundsen says that there have been consultations before the municipalities were heard. It's once again actually wrong. The NOU has been consulted with the proposal. All the hearing opinions have been received and consultations have been held on this basis. So that's misleading the Storting. You're focusing on crazy information. The NOU is heard. It has been sent to all the municipalities in Finnmark. Everyone has had the opportunity to comment before the consultations were conducted. It's okay to disagree, but you have to deal with the fact that you've been heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1586	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1604	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1613	The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Progress Party, share the view of the proposers that Norway will have a large unmet labour demand that cannot be resolved domestically. The majority of the Committee agrees that there is already an urgent need for labour in certain sectors. The treatment of documents also shows that there is a broad political consensus that we need to find good solutions to meet this labour demand. An overall committee agrees that we need to make greater use of the unused reserves of labour we have in Norway than today. The members of the Committee agree that we cannot or should not rely on the fact that the labour demand is to be met by immigrants alone. However, the majority of the Committee's members believe that we are in any case going to have a labour deficit. The left will stress that we are facing both a long-term challenge and an urgent need. The long-term challenge is linked to demographic development, i.e.: the wave of old age. We in the Left are pleased that the Government is working with a big message that addresses this issue in a thorough manner. We are concerned that the issue in the future will not be how we can keep foreign labour outside the borders of Norway, but how to get the best workers. Working on a big message with long-term solutions is a poor comfort to the companies that are already struggling to hire people today. More people we in the Left have talked to say that bureaucracy and queues are waiting for jobs, and that this hampers labour immigration. The UDI indicates that the average time for processing labour immigration matters has fallen, but at the same time says that it is because they are now prioritizing the simple issues, while the more complex ones that require more paperwork are being pushed on. As a result, residues are increasing, and technology companies with orderly working conditions and who depend on highly skilled personnel become losers when the processing time is as long as it is. My colleague Trine Skei Grande spoke in February with a company that could tell that getting an engineer from India could take six months. This is a major problem, because it is no secret that many people who have been offered a job in Norway are getting tired of waiting and agree to offers from other countries instead. We have also heard companies complain that it is difficult to get information, that the availability of the telephone at UDI is limited, and that no one can answer how long it is until you receive an answer to the application. This might be some of the explanation why we don't fill the quota in the case of skilled specialists. It is important that we take these acute challenges seriously. Therefore, we support the Right’s proposal to launch more actions now and do not wait for the Government to present its report on migration in the spring of 2008. The left recognises that increased labour migration leads to an increased need for good control procedures. All those working in Norway must be guaranteed a good working environment and normal pay conditions. Unfortunately, there have been more examples of Immigrants working under working conditions and with pay conditions far worse than those normal in Norway. That, of course, is unacceptable. The left is concerned with labour immigration in controlled forms. Those who come to Norway to make an honest effort will be treated with respect and dignity. That is why we want to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, so that the government strengthens its responsibility to prevent the exploitation of foreign workers. Finally, I would like to express my joy at the fact that it is now almost political agreement that Norwegian legislation and bureaucracy are not adapted to the needs of today and the future in the area of labour migration. It is important that we now show willingness to change and adjust the rules according to this need. The Left therefore wants to support most of the proposals that the document makes. In addition, we recommend that the Government introduce a visa for a jobseeker, and that those who already have a specific job offer and a job contract in Norway are initially granted a one-year residence permit. The left also wants foreign students to automatically receive a six-month visa to apply for a job after completing their education. If these measures are implemented, the Left believes that we will be better equipped to meet tomorrow's challenges. I am addressing the proposals to which the Left is a co-rapporteur, which have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1636	The representative Vera Lysklätt has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1639	I want to start by pointing out that the president is wearing an unusually nice dress today! It is good that the proposers raise a debate on how we can meet tomorrow's need for labour immigration. [[The President and the representative had similar dresses on them.]] Over the next 10 years, Norway and Europe will need labour force immigration, for example: as the proportion of older people in the future will increase significantly compared to those in employment. Firstly, we must work for increased employment in Norway. Many work involuntary part-time, especially in the health care sector. This has already been taken into account by the Government. We need to ensure that more people come to work, that there are fewer people who are permanently insured, and that older people can take longer to work, including through 6-hour trials and senior measures. We also have a large number of immigrants who live in Norway today, who are out of work. We need to make sure that they can get into work to solve important tasks in society, and also because it will make it easier to succeed in integrating those who move to Norway feel that they are needed. However, the need for labour cannot only be met domestically. That is why the Government is now working on a big message on labour immigration. Several of the proposals in the document we are now examining, the Government is already working on, and the Ministry will make proposals for changes as the measures in question are sufficiently explored. The new Foreign Affairs Act will also propose changes to labour migration. The government has also been working on measures against social dumping for a long time. These are some examples of important measures that have already been implemented. Therefore, claiming that the Government is passive, as the opposition is trying to do, is wrong. Rather, the opposition should focus on being constructive. I'm sure it'll do better than that. Everyone in this room agrees that labour immigration should take orderly forms. It is then important to take time to determine how the various measures will turn out and to evaluate them carefully. There are several issues to consider: how can we make Norway more attractive in the global labour market? We also need to consider different welfare schemes for the workers being picked up. We have to make sure that the workers who move here can stay in work for a long time, that they don't work their lives for a period of time, until they can't do more and get into social security. We also need to assess how this works in the country of dispatch, for example. through ‘brain drain’, etc. In Poland we now see a formidable increase in wealth. It will be a challenge for Norway to attract labour in the future when welfare and wages increase in the former Eastern European countries. Unfortunately, the challenges that we are discussing today, and which the Government has a strong focus on, do not seem to allow the Progress Party to take over. In the form of a note, they write, inter alia, that the demographic challenges are significantly exaggerated. They will not lift a single finger for the companies that need labour. Firstly, they believe that today's labour migration is sufficient, and secondly, they believe that businesses themselves must take the whole job if they need labour. They also say that the need must be met within Europe, despite the fact that we know that most European countries have the same need for labour immigration, and that we therefore have to live with quite a hard competition. They also write that they want max. 1000 non-Western immigrants per year. years. To the information of the Progress Party, I can say that today we have 107 000 immigrants in the world of work from non-Western countries. I think an incredible number of patients, older and not least business are happy that we have not followed the naïve line of the Progress Party so far. The line of the Progress Party is short-term and directly irresponsible. But as the populist party Progress Party is, I don't think it's going to take a long time until they realize that in the future we actually need people to work in hospitals, in institutions for the elderly and to drive buses and trams. Then they will probably also come after them, but as in the climate issue, they will probably come sadly late.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1667	The President thanked the representative Stokkan-Grande for his compliment, and commended that the representative Stokkan-Grande also had a good taste!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1670	In the name of soberness, I think we should try to drag this debate down a little bit on the ground, where it belongs. Here you mix terms to keep it going. These are actually at least two very different debates, but so far have those who have been out here, talking as if this were one thing, and was wasting everything together. So let's just think about what might be the most important thing. This applies to the so-called expert quota, which applies to those who have skills that are difficult to find in Norway, which we lack in Norway, for example. geologists, who we have deficits on. There we have an expert quota system that allows people outside the EEA to be picked up to Norway by means of labour immigration. This is a broad majority for in Stortinget. The Progress Party also supports the comments of the Committee on the simplification of legislation, making it more flexible, less bureaucratic and reducing the length of proceedings, etc., in order to serve the companies that need the special competence that we lack in some contexts. It is a debate in which we all largely agree. Then we'll see if that arrangement should be extended. The starting point is that at least you don't have to expand it when we don't even manage to fill the quota every year. Then there's a completely different debate like Arild Stokkan-Grande and several sauces in hopes of this expert quota. This is the debate on the so-called massive labour immigration Norway is going to need in the future, which everyone is talking about, and which has become a very big issue. Here, I'm asking for soberness. What are you really talking about? For example, you would like to take a look at it. The ageing wave, and then you say that the population's composition over then and so many years is going to change, so that we get very many older. People live longer in Norway – and that’s good, would be a belief. The population composition is gradually becoming very older, which will require more hands in the care of the elderly. We agree on that. But it will be a permanent, a constant state because the whole population development has changed. This cannot be done by regularly bringing in immigrants from outside the EU to meet the challenge from time to time. You have to repeat that with the x number of years of space. It won't solve any problem. These people will also be old once and will need care. So this doesn't solve any problems. The vast majority of economists are aware of this. The NHO has also warned against it. So this is mixing the cards. You actually have to think completely differently. It's about transforming the Norwegian economy. The Norwegian economy needs to transform into a new reality, where we are going to need a greater proportion of those added in Norway who provide health and care services. That must be the real situation. That means we have to turn around how we use the work factors in society. It's the basic economy. If you try to say that we have to pick up immigrants from outside the EU to pay for this, it is to bring people behind the light. In fact, what you say, which you don't dare say out loud, is that you should underestimate the salary of Norwegian nurses, Norwegian assistants, in order to be able to provide the services from outside the EU in the future. That's what you don't say. That's what's real. If, on the other hand, the market is allowed to function – and I know it is difficult for many parties to swallow it, especially the government parties – it is actually the market that is capable of solving that challenge entirely by itself. The need and demand for health and care workers will, of course, lead to increased pricing of precisely those services, which means that more people will choose that profession – classic supply/demand. So it's like we have an unused labour reserve in Norway. There are people who are in other situations in life, and who might have been in work, but also people in the public sector. To a large extent, we are using our labour force as members of the public sector rather than in value-creating industries. Conversion and slimming of the public sector will also free labour that we can use in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1689	Today's Business yesterday we could read a reasonable, yet enjoyable interview with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. It made sense because the Council recognises that the labour market would be in a critical situation without the 100,000 immigrants we now have from former Eastern Europe. The cost pressure would be higher and the interest rates higher. But it was a pleasure because the party of the Council of State said something quite different in the last growing-up period. On the other hand, they were also sceptical about the enlargement of the EU and the EEA. The article made sense because the Council of State recognizes the continuing need for labour and is concerned whether we are doing enough to get many to come in the years to come. It was pleasurable, or rather incomprehensible, because he is not now using this opportunity to go for our eleven measures to ensure the necessary labour immigration and thus better access to labour. We have to use all sources of labour," says CEO Lars Haukaas of NATO. We could read in the Evening Post yesterday that Norwegian companies will hire as never before. Nearly three out of ten Norwegian companies want to hire people. This makes the Norwegian business leaders the most optimistic in Europe. Norway now has the highest labour market, which makes the challenges particularly high, since unemployment is at a record low level. What does the Government do in such a situation? Well, the Council of State says that the Storting should wait for a big message coming in the spring of 2008, to see everything in context. This is nothing but a postponement – a completely unnecessary postponement, because eleven concrete proposals are on the table, ready for adoption and implementation. Even government parties say in a note that Norway and Europe in the next decades will need labour force immigration, and that this cannot only be covered domestically. Fafo believes that we should have a regulatory framework that makes it easier for employers to use non-resident labour. It is regrettable that the government believes it has good time. But it contrasts with what both the NHO and the KS expressed in the committee hearings. This is now urgent in 2007, because the labour market situation is acute, and it is too long to wait for changes in the rules that can only take effect in 2009. Will the cow die while the grass grows? I find it most strange and quite agreeable that the government parties and partly the Progress Party cannot vote in favour, in order to have measures adopted and implemented by the industry itself. Firstly, it should be a narrow matter to be able to provide long-term visas for workers employed in companies located both abroad and in Norway. Secondly, it would also be essential to amend the legislation so that there is a clear distinction between labour immigration on the one hand and asylum and humanitarian residence on the other. This also points to Fafo in his report. It is an obsolete form of proceedings which should be replaced by a model with prior approval of companies and a rapid procedure system. Thirdly, it is necessary to simplify procedures for the renewal and renewal of work permits. It should be unnecessary to experience that several companies say it is difficult and difficult to get the work permits renewed for their employees. These three proposals are all examples of what we think needs to be done quickly in order to facilitate the pressure on businesses in the search for labour. There should also be full pressure on the country to provide highly skilled labour. That is why we are proposing tax incentives. Further seven good proposals are now being rejected by the government parties pending an action plan which can thus be effective in 2009 at the earliest. It's too late for business. They want action now, not just beautiful words and promises. It's not plans we need, it's action and concrete action. Then I have to put a question mark at the Workers' Party's suggestion that a constructive opposition is sought. For what is it more constructive than when we in the opposition parties sit down and work out eleven concrete measures such as business demand? The government and government parties should be able to accept this with an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1710	We need more workers in this country! The demand for labour is higher in many sectors than the supply. However, labour migration continues to maintain a high level of production, while wage developments are moderate and price growth is limited. In addition, fresh estimates show that if workers had not arrived in Norway from other countries, the interest rate would have been 0.75 pst. higher than today. There is no doubt that we as a nation are dependent on foreign workers. Like the previous speaker, I would also say that it is doubtful to witness that the government has such a slow attitude to this issue. The government has announced that it is working on a growth report on labour immigration to come in 2008. Any changes to the rules will thus enter into force in 2009 at the earliest. Action needs to be taken which can work in the short term and which can respond to acute needs. It is high time for the legislation on labour immigration to be simplified and amended. Many of the proposals in Document No. 8:32 are measures which can be taken as an immediate measure. Norway needs labour immigration, and it would be immeasurably stupid if we treated immigrants in such a way that they would prefer to work elsewhere in the future. I would like to stress that social dumping is one of the main challenges of working life. This requires authorities to rapidly develop a comprehensive strategy to meet the challenges. When the Government proposes to use more than three years to produce a big message dealing with the theme, there is reason to be impatient. The Christian People's Party is very surprised and critical that the Government has such a passive attitude towards such an important theme. Today, highly skilled labour is under-utilised. Let me give you an example: we have an allowance for how many specialist work permits that can be granted each year. Unfortunately, this allowance is far from being met. It may be related to too few applicants, but I have to say that I am surprised when an Albanian girl with a 3-year university education from Blinderna does not get a work permit here in Norway. I have to say it with a certain irony: Fortunately, she was a specialist enough to get a job at the Embassy of Albania in Sweden. Maybe it's not just the number of applicants who are too low, but it's too narrow a port to get in. I think we need to reconsider our attitudes towards labour immigration. The need for increased labour migration of Norway should be reflected in legislation and the examination of applications for work permits. Together with the Right and Left, we in the Christian People's Party propose to give foreign students who have taken higher education in Norway, an opportunity to stay here a little longer, to get a work permit for up to five years after completion of education. Then they can increase their qualifications and competences. The foreign student can already Norwegian and will benefit from good work experience. Norway definitely needs extra hands and heads. The Christian People's Party is in favour of most of the proposals from, among others. Right. Proposal No. On the other hand, 4 represents an ethical dilemma. The proposal is to ‘assess the simplification/modification of the legislation on labour migrants from non-EU countries wishing to have their spouse/children with them to Norway’. The Christian People's Party believes that family reunification rules should be the same for all immigrants from outside the EU, regardless of whether they have a value for the country in terms of employment or not. I wonder which ethical considerations are behind such differentiation as is proposed. I think we should rather work for a simplification and speed up the process of family reunification in general. Finally, I will refer to the vote and take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1735	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1739	I share many of the analyses carried out from this pulpit that there is a difficult situation in the Norwegian labour market. I just want to give you a couple of numbers to illustrate it. NAV had a business survey for a short time, where it was in direct contact with businesses. One of the questions asked was how many vacancies you had. When NAV summarises this, there were only two to three weeks ago 88 000 job vacancies in Norway. 14 days ago, NAV also provided the unemployment statistics, which showed 42 000 unemployed. The two figures illustrate that there are more than twice as many job vacancies as there are completely unemployed in Norway. Of course, it describes that there is a pressured labour market. The situation in the labour market is this, despite the fact that we have a significant labour migration to Norway. We have a good overview of how many people have received a letter of agreement and jobs in Norwegian companies. But we don't have a full overview of service immigration. In the press, I have said that we can count on about 100 000 workers in Norway from the EEA region lubricating the Norwegian labour market. What these numbers describe is that the situation is serious. But they also describe Norway as having a very offensive labour immigration policy. We are among the countries in Europe that have decided the most labour migrants. When I meet European colleagues, we talk a lot about how Norway has managed to facilitate an immigration of labour that has had a great positive impact on Norway. I think it is important to try to give a balanced description of the situation. We have a serious situation. We have to take it in, while it is quite clear that we have succeeded in dampening the pressure in the Norwegian economy by facilitating labour immigration over many years. I believe that the proposals that have been promoted from the Right are constructive contributions to making even more progress in facilitating increased labour migration, which I believe Norway needs. Therefore, I take these suggestions seriously with me, without that meaning that on behalf of the Government I feel that I can witness everyone today. I'll give you one example. Transitional arrangements are often promoted as a means of realising an increase in labour migration. I am very much in doubt as to whether the removal of the transitional arrangements will lead to more work immigrants. I think maybe the opposite. The fact that we have transitional arrangements to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions for individual workers may have a recruitment and a positive effect for Norway. We see that we are recruiting better in terms of labour immigration than all those countries that do not have transitional arrangements. The fact that we have transitional arrangements, and that we are thus able to offer workers orderly pay and working conditions, can as well be a positive recruiter as a negative one. Let me just use this as a concrete example that I don't think the answers are completely obvious and simple, but that they are constructive contributions that we really take with us in the further work. We're making ongoing assessments. We are promoting concrete proposals when we find it sound, but we also want to invite the Stortinget to a comprehensive review. We think we have time for that. So first of all, we want to do it in two ways. Firstly, in June we will now present proposals for a new foreign law, which formally has the legal side around a lot of labour immigration. In the course of the New Year, we will then present the first comprehensive, comprehensive report on labour immigration, which will also address the issues raised by the representative Amundsen: What needs do we have? What will the overall impact on the Norwegian economy be? If we try to see 30 years ahead in time, where will we be? So what do we need? What are the benefits and disadvantages? How are we going to put in place national strategies to meet those challenges? In the end, I think it's wise of the Storting to take the time for the overall review to which the Government invites.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1760	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1763	I think there's a lot of consensus about the reality description. We are facing major challenges, as we have taken out many of the opportunities we had for labour immigration from the EEA. Norway has been able to do so. We had a historical advantage because we had long had seasonal work immigration, which has helped us in that situation. The challenge now, however, is that we face stronger competition in terms of labour. Norway is in this situation, unlike almost all other countries in Europe, that we have taken out our domestic labour reserve by the fact that, fortunately, we have a historically low unemployment rate and that, fortunately, we have a large share of women in work. This means that if we do not now take proper action in this area, Norway can slow down in a situation where there is otherwise great international growth. Will we experience that the Government will come to Stortinget with some of these proposals now, either in the Foreign Affairs Act or continuously during the autumn, or do we have to wait until 2008 and risk falling times before these proposals are promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1772	I'm taking the question positively. It is difficult to respond explicitly to exactly those proposals, but for example. on the issue of long-term visas for employees employed in enterprises, which is a proposal 11, we will very soon submit to the consultation a proposal to amend the rules on multi-travel visas which allow such visas to be granted not only for one year at a time but for a whole period of five years. That's an example of us working on some of the proposals that the Right is promoting, even in the short term. We sent a proposal last week to consult the EEA workers that they can start working on once they have submitted a full application. If you have submitted a full application, you can only start at work. You don't have to wait until you start. These are examples of short-term measures that we will take now and continuously beyond.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1779	It is good to note that the Progress Party and the Council of State agree on at least two points: that we should not be hasty about removing the transitional regime and that we should take proper time to assess labour migration from all points of view before drawing any conclusions. The Progress Party is very much in agreement with the Council of State. But then I want to challenge the Council of States in being concrete and honest. If you choose to ignore the market mechanisms and use a large-scale labour migration – which I believe is the concept that the Council of State has used in the past – to meet the needs of the nursing and nursing professions in the future, can the Council of State be honest about this and agree that it will also mean lower wage increases for the help nurses and nurses in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1786	What has happened so far in the last three to four years since the opening of the EEA area to such an extent is that Norway has had high growth as a nation. Real wages have risen a lot. We are among the best countries in Europe in terms of real wages growth, and we have had the highest level of labour migration. So far, the thesis of the representative Amundsen has proved not to vote in the real world. We have had both a real wage increase and a clear growth in labour immigration. I think it's a very simplified theory that's underpinned, in the sense that if you now say that the public sector only has to satisfy its labour needs by increasing wages, and that only leads to the private sector having to respond, and that leads to a pay spiral where costs grow without real wage increases, it's not a desired wage trend, because it only leads to nominal wage increases without a real wage increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1791	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1796	There were two articles that made me take the word. The first was from the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande, who challenged the opposition to be more constructive. I have to say that there is a relatively provocative message in a situation in which Arild Stokkan-Grande very well knows that the opposition in this case has on several occasions addressed the government parties and wanted to discuss agreement on proposal and suspension. So I hope we don't get the kind of statements in future debates in a situation where the opposition looked to those degrees want to cooperate with the Government. But then it was the production from the Progress Party that the market would solve this. The right is also a party that has great faith in the market, but in a situation where access to labour is limited, it is of course that shortages of labour will lead to wage increases. If the consequence of this is that a shift in the balance between the public and private sectors – which will be the consequence if the wage increase becomes so large in the public sector that it loses its workforce – I hope that today the Progress Party will go out to the lawn of those who stand outside and demonstrate, and be honest with them and tell them that Norwegian industrial workplaces will be exported in record travel out of the country. That would be the consequences of the policy of the Progress Party, because these jobs will have a triple click. They will lack labour. They will experience an increase in interest rates and an increase in the dollar rate, and they will experience that they will lose out in competition with others about the labour force. But then I think the Progress Party should be honest about it and say that the Progress Party is choosing a restrictive immigration policy in front of Norwegian industrial workplaces. But Carl I. Hagen has in a previous famous post answered that challenge by saying, So what! That's what I think the Progress Party should start to repeat and be honest with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1803	There are two articles that I feel the need to link some comments to. To take the last post first: I started my post by commending the proposers for making an important debate. It's constructive. But when one has seen the answer from the Council of State, and when one has had ample opportunity to follow up on what has actually been proposed earlier, it is quite an exaggeration to claim in the form of a note and also in the debate here that the Government is passive on this issue. Therefore, I still believe that the opposition succeeds better when you are constructive than when you make such baseless claims. So to Per-Willy Amundsen, who claims from the pulpit here that importing labour will not solve any of the world's problems. Then it's tempting to ask Amundsen what is his prescription on the challenges we're facing, among other things. in the care of the elderly. Is the conduct of an elderly policy throughout the country similar to that of the Progress Party and the Right leader in Oslo, where 270 older people were denied room in institutions because there was not enough room last year? Is that the prescription? In this case, you can manage far on the road without importing any labour force. Or is it e.g. that the owners of the holding must in the future refuse to accept new orders? It might be interesting to get answers to the questions when Amundsen is now going to have the word afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1810	To take the last one first, Arild Stokkan-Grande is looking for our option. I've just made that clear. We believe in the market mechanisms. We want the market mechanisms to work. This will mean that more people will work in the care sector in the future, and for higher wages. This is how the market works if we let it work. But then – to the representative Bent Höie – we have to do other things at the same time, and it's about reducing the size of the public sector, so that we don't over-binding our workforce in the public sector. There's the Progress Party and the Right Alliance. At the same time, by opening up much more to private health and care services, we can meet the challenge in this area. New technologies will, of course, apply in the future in the care and care sectors, as they do in all other areas – which may mean that as labour prices increase, the labour intensity of care and care will also be lower. There's a lot of possibilities here. The point is to establish from the outset that we need labour immigration – massively so – from countries outside Europe, despite the fact that we soon have half a billion people to pick up labour from within the EU/EEA area, just to fix it straight away without thinking about the consequences of it in the long term, that is what I would call irresponsible policy. Such a new policy will be non-reversible, and it can have major consequences for society. This is why it is important to sit down and think carefully through this and, not least, listen to critical economists who believe that there is a lot of fraud in the subject, and that this should be carefully considered before implementing new policy instruments. Because that's a fact, as I said before, that the number of elderly people in Norway is going to be a greater proportion of the population in the long term. It's not a short-term affair. It's going to stay like this for a longer time. In that case, immigration will only solve the problem temporarily, because when the generation you pick up as a migrant worker in order to address the challenges of health and care professionals gets old, we need to bring in new ones, which in turn will require care and care. So it's just postponing the problem. And while postponing the problem, the problem will grow bigger. That is not a sensible policy. At least it does not believe that the Progress Party. This should be carefully reviewed and looked at the consequences before coming up with solutions to major challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1825	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1841	I can only refer to the previous case, and I will not delay the debate by taking all the arguments again, but say that these are really two sides of the same case. This case is an addition to the previous one we discussed. In order to further strengthen the scope for simplification of the procedure, a proposal in this case is made in four points on ICT in the management of foreign countries. I'm not going to refer to what the proposal contains, just saying that it's not just about simplifying and streamlining the bureaucracy and administration itself, but also about making it easier for those who come to the country to understand the society they come to. So there are two sides to this matter that are important. The background to that is that just a few weeks ago I was with some colleagues from Telemark visiting the Lithuanian ambassador in Oslo. The main message we received from the ambassador was the animal-bought experience of the Lithuanians with the lack of Norwegian labour-immigrant receivers. When our country needs and demands foreign labour, we should also be able to accept them well – therefore our proposal in this matter. I will not highlight any more of our critical objections to passivity and that this does not happen quickly enough, just saying that we believe, of course, the same in this case as in the previous case. Then I shall end by quoting Max Frisch. He says the following: «Calling on labour. But there are people coming." The Lithuanians – and other immigrant workers – would have a better life in Norway if the government had speeded up and we could quickly carry out simplifications that benefit them. With this I take up the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1859	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1862	I'm not going to polemize. But one of the first things I noticed when I took over as the responsible state council in this field was that parts of the electronic processing system in UDI were very old-fashioned. The main thing is that you cannot handle documents electronically, and you carry files between the police, UDI and UNE. It is clear that there will gradually be significant dossiers – many hundreds of pages of documents – that make a significant contribution to the lateness of things. This was not a situation that arose on 17 October 2005. It was a situation that marked the UDI in the four years before that, too, while the Right Leader was responsible. You could say, well, I've spent some time putting in place the appropriations that are now investing in an electronic processing system in the UDI. But now we're on, and the first 15 million are now in the revised national budget. I would like to have the 15 million in place on October 18, 2005, but now they're in place. I think it's a wrong description to say that this is primarily an exasperation from the Government, considering what kind of electronic processing system I inherited from the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1869	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3599]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1885	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3600]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1902	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3601]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1918	In the winter of 1994–95, the Stortinget decided to set up a third permanent parliamentary supervisory body, the EOS Committee. The concern about the secret services in the 1990s caused questions to be asked about trust in services, and transparency and popular control were demanded by many. The Secret Service Control Act was in place in February 1995, and a decade later the EOS Committee entered into force. The purpose of the check is referred to in the purpose paragraph: ‘1. to clarify and prevent any wrongs being committed against any, including ensuring that no more intervention is used than is necessary under conditions;2. ensuring that activities do not unduly harm society,3. to ensure that the activities are carried out in the framework of legislative, administrative and military directives and of unlawful law.’;» The national security and the relationship with foreign powers were also covered by the mandate. The EOS Committee was given wide powers. After a run-in period of clarification of legislation, procedures and reforms in all three services, the sample appears to have found a good working form. And let me stress how important it is that we have an organ that controls the secret services on behalf of the Storing. In this way, we ensure that monitoring, exchange of information or intelligence goes against fundamental human rights and the rule of law. It also helps to build confidence in services and to give them legitimacy in the population. The Annual Communication states that no routine or serious cases have been identified in 2006 either in the Police Security Service, the National Security Authority or the Intelligence Service, and that the cooperation between the services and the sample is good. The annual report is transparent and informative. However, in the context of the 2005 Annual Communication, the Steering Committee came in some areas. This applies, inter alia, to: issues relating to the borderline between policy opinions and opinions considered to be a call for terrorism, the threshold for registration, the importance of erasing information that is no longer needed, the understanding of the cooperation relations between the organised EOS services and other authorities and the premises for security clearance. Furthermore, the Committee was concerned that the selection should be ensured with sufficient competence to follow up on the partly difficult technical aspects of the activities of the services. Some of the notes have been commented on and followed up, others not. A unanimous committee requests that the steering signals issued by the Stortinge during the examination of the annual messages be explicitly queried or commented on in the following annual report. This also applies to questions arising from the examination of the 2005 Annual Report, including: on the registration of persons on the basis of opinions given to the media on support for opposition groups using violent instruments, where a separate statement was requested. As indicated in the opinion, the Committee has comments on a number of questions. Time does not allow full review, but some comments. An important prerequisite for control is the possibility of verification and traceability. This must also apply to the secret services. I assume that checking that decisions can be documented and verified is an important part of the task of the sample. In our democratic society, transparency is a common value. Therefore, the security rating needs to be reserved for issues where there is a real need for it. Merpublicity and degradation must be kept under constant review and the requirements of the applicable legislation must be complied with. The Committee welcomes the fact that the sample addresses procedural issues in the listing and deletion of UN terrorist lists. Checks on archives and records are also important to ensure that persons are not illegally registered. The deletion of information which is no longer relevant, as well as the updating and securing of relevant information, is necessary both for the protection of privacy and for the effective functioning of the service. I am pleased that the sample will follow up the Storting's desire to pay particular attention to the PST's application of the extended legal framework to use coercive measures during investigations for the purpose of the service received in 2005. The results of the 1999 investigation into the scheme, with the appointment of a special lawyer for suspects when an application is made for the right to use hidden coercive agents, are elevating. That the lawyers in approx. 55 pst. the cases do not object to the request, and the fact that the PST is not supported in 15 pst. shows the importance of ensuring the possibility of counter-dictation in such cases. It is positive that the sample will also focus in the coming years on how the scheme works. I have also noted with interest the presentation of the PST's cooperation with the customs authorities, and would like to stress the importance of the fact that the grounds for requesting assistance and the basis for implementing customs controls can be verified by the inspection body. As indicated in the referral, the Committee assumes that guidelines for cooperation between the PST and the customs authorities are drawn up and that the progress of this work will be informed in the context of the EOS Committee's annual report for 2007. I understand that there is a restrictive practice with regard to the security clearance of those under protection who have been in possession of drugs, and that for the Defence Military Organisation, the FMO, there is a principle of zero tolerance for drug use. However, I agree with the sample that an individual assessment needs to be carried out, and where the issue of the importance of safety after social development is appropriate to focus on individual cases of use of light drugs in youth needs to be emphasised. It is important to provide young people with information on the consequences of actions that may create problems in clearing up the first time services. The annual report sets out two issues relating to breaches of the document security of the FMO. It is positive that the cases have led to increased control with regard to the provisions of the Safety Act on Authorisation and on Safety Management. The time does not allow me to address several of the many interesting issues that the annual report concerns. Let me just say at the end that the creation of the EOS Committee has given the results the proposers hope for, namely a real control of and increased confidence in the secret services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1968	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review. I agree with the rapporteur that the EOS Committee has been a success. We've had it for over ten years. SV was in its time a driver to get it established, after the Lund Commission, and the purpose was that the Storting had to have better control of the secret services. So through this sample we've got it done, and when we travel around visiting other countries, at least in the Nordic countries, we're constantly being asked about how we've organized this work – you're looking to Norway for the way we choose to control the secret services, through our own parliament. In this context, I allow myself to express a special thanks to Stein Ørnhøi, who was one of the initiators to get the sample established in its time, and who has also been a member of the sample for more than a decade. He's giving up now. I just want to say that I think he has done an excellent job to make sure that the sample has done his job, and has always taken up new challenges, so that today we have a sample, as the case-in-law says, that works very well. The Committee's attitude shows that we broadly agree on most things. Among other things, SV is very pleased to point out that if new methods are introduced, the sample should also be informed about it, so that new situations do not arise that may become burdensome in terms of legal certainty, etc. But there is a problem that concerns us, as shown in the comment that SV says alone in the setting. It is about the provision of material about individuals, or information about individuals, to intelligence services of other countries. Here the EOS Committee says that it is difficult to obtain routines to verify how this information is used. I and SV hope that we will continue working on how to ensure that this information is not misused, because when you provide information about individuals to other countries' intelligence services, it is important that they are not used in a way for which they are not intended to be used. In other words, it would threaten legal certainty if you do not have a control over how they are used. So we hope that further work will work to ensure that this type of information is also satisfactorily controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1979	I would also like to refer to the rapporteur's thorough examination and, to this extent, to agree with what she said. Nevertheless, I allow myself to take time for a few comments. The EOS Committee is one of the largest control bodies in the world. It is important that we have elected people to control the secret services, as others have expressed it. In this way, the public can be confident that the services follow the guidelines drawn up and do not work contrary to fundamental human rights and legal principles. It is positive that the EOS Committee did not reveal routine or serious individual cases in 2006. I'll take note of that. However, in the control of the police security service and with the clearing authorities, the selection has had critical comments in some cases. In the ongoing inspection activities of the Police Security Service, the core archives and records are still under control. This is important to ensure that individuals are not incorrectly listed in such registers and that what is there, if any, is correct. It's been interesting to notice that lawyers in 55 pst. they have not objected to the application of hidden coercive substances. The police security service has not received 15 p.m. of the cases, and then only in cases where lawyers have objected. The Committee has expressed some views on the strict practice of defence in the area of the security clearance of those under protection who have been in possession of drugs. Let me make it quite clear: the Christian People's Party has zero tolerance on drugs, in all contexts. But that doesn't mean that a miscarriage in youth is going to destroy a person for the rest of his life. It has to go to put it behind it. It is therefore necessary to assess whether this presents a safety risk on a case-by-case basis. In 2006, no complaints were received on the Intelligence Service, and this is positive. In the examination of the previous annual notification, the scope of the Intelligence Act as an independent basis for the use of interventional methods was a topic. This was considered in particular in the context of the legality of the methodology being assessed and approved by the responsible policy authorities. This has been followed up by the Ministry of Defence. I am pleased that the Department has briefed the EOS Committee on the importance of clearing up new methods with the Department and that as far as possible written clearance will take place. It is also positive that the review of the department so far shows that the service presents all the principal cases to the department. Let me stress that it is important that this also happens in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e1996	I initially want to express my affection and enthusiasm for the work done in the EOS Committee, the body of the Storting. It's very useful, and we need it. In the time we live in, demands for increased use of methods, the use of more coercion when justified, the need for control, transparency, to reveal both criminal acts, the preparation for criminal acts and other undesirable acts, undesirable behaviour, may quickly be overshadowed by the need for legal certainty for individuals, and not least the need we will always have to ensure legitimacy and trust in the methods that include: The police are using. The debate in the last few days clearly shows how important it is to have that dimension when we are going to develop new methods, and also to see to what extent control actually works effectively. In this way, perhaps this debate in Stortinget could have been more extensive and had more participants to look at how we ensure it. First of all, I would also like to say that in the work we are doing in the departments and in the government to ensure the legitimacy of these methods, the very work done on the control side and also in the control committee of the Stortinge is particularly important. During the past six months, both the Minister of Defence and I have had the pleasure of visiting both the PST, the E-service and the NSM, among others. with a view to looking at the perception of the control aspect and cooperation with the control bodies, and not least the cooperation between these services. It's nice to hear that even those who are being controlled feel that it's very right and very important. Initially, I also point out that, on a general basis, the EOS Committee stated that in 2006 no serious individual cases or routine failures were detected in connection with the control of the PST, which is under the Ministry of Justice, and that this also applies to the provision of personal data to foreign cooperating services. The EOS Committee further states that there have been no problems in the cooperation relationship between the sample and the PST, that the service is professionally related to the control, and that the sample assumes that the service provides the sample with all information that may be of controllable relevance. It's satisfying. In 2006, the Committee received 14 complaints from individuals targeting the PST against 12 in 2004 and 10 in 2005. I record that the number of complaints is relatively stable, and that there is no statement of criticism against the PST in any of the cases. But of course, we should have been these too. Checks on the records and records of the service constitute the core of the continuous inspection by the EOS Committee against the PST, and the relatively new SMART work register of the service, as it is called, has enabled the sample to carry out a better control than before. In this respect, I am pleased to note that the sample inspection of the work register has not revealed any critical aspects of a general nature. The routine and sample-based control of the processing of personal data by the service is essential in order to be able to properly assess compliance of the PST in practice with the requirement of an individual assessment before data on individual individuals is recorded and that the discretionary threshold for registration is not too low. In this connection, I take note that during 2006, the EOS Committee raised some registrations with the PST and asked questions about the basis for registration or for continuation after five years. This has led in some cases to the review and deletion of registration, and in other cases the registration basis has been better clarified as a result of the investigation. These conditions will also be followed up by inspection activities of the Ministry of Justice in the PST. So there were some specific issues involved in the annual report. As regards the cooperation of the PST with the customs authorities, in 2006 the sample carried out investigations at the customs authorities on the basis of two customs controls on persons and baggage carried out at the request of the PST. The customs authorities were not in a position to document the reasons for this verification, a fact the sample criticised because it did not make it possible to determine from the customs authorities’ information on the verification carried out within the framework of the customs law. The Ministry of Justice has noted that the sample has addressed some general questions with the Directorate of Customs and Fees on the feasibility of cooperation with the PST and the legal basis for cooperation. Furthermore, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs sees that guidelines for cooperation between the PST and customs authorities are being drawn up and expects to be informed of the progress of this work in the context of the EOS Committee's Annual Report for 2007, as we note. As regards the use of hidden coercive agents by the PST in the investigation trail, including in the negative eye and in the preventive track, cf. changes in the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act which entered into force in August 2005 are particularly useful in the work of the EOS Committee. There is not just a judicial/supervisory aspect. It is also a constitutional responsibility for the government and for the Minister of Justice in the direction of prevention. Control in individual cases in 2006 has not provided any basis for criticising PST. Overall use of the new home remains modest, but there has been an increasing trend beyond 2006. This applies in both abstinence and prevention. It's not to hide that this is something we're focusing heavily on where the constitutional responsibility goes over the Department of Justice's political leadership and government. The investigation also shows that the lawyers appointed in such cases to care for the interests of the suspect have not objected to the requests of the PST in the majority of cases. At the same time, the PST’s requests for the use of hidden coercive substances have not been made in whole or in part by reason of the court in approx. 15 pst. by the cases, which were also referred to by the rapporteur. As the sample writes, the numbering material does not provide a basis for drawing certain conclusions as to the importance of the performance of the task of lawyers in the proceedings and the legal status of suspects. However, the figures suggest that opposition may have a major impact on the outcome, as the court has only opposed requests in cases where the lawyer has appealed. The sample states that on the basis of the assumptions given by the Stortinget – that the lawfulness of the use of coercive agents for preventive purposes should be a limited supplement and a narrow safety valve for the PST, and that the service should always choose the investigation trail where possible – will continue to follow this up. This was a significant and important point, among other things. to me when, after a thorough debate, the Stortinget opened up the use of coercive substances for prevention purposes, and in which the original proposal during the course of the Stortinget treatment was clarified and, in my opinion, narrowed, Finally, with regard to security rating, public disclosure and downgrading: the Ministry of Justice has noted the sample’s assessment of transparency practices in documents held by the PST, highlighting the importance of assigning security rating to issues where there is a real need for it. Furthermore, issues of more publicity and degradation need to be considered in line with the requirements of the applicable legislation. The Ministry of Justice will follow up all aspects of its control activities with the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2034	I would like to start by saying that the EOS Committee is doing an important job for the Storting, also as regards the control of the services mentioned here. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good review, which refers to the comments made in the annual report. I would like to stress that we, on the part of the Ministry of Defence, take note of all the comments made in the Committee's proceedings and see it as important that we be able to follow them up and sign them out. There are three things that have been mentioned here, which I would like to say a little about. The first concerns the long period of proceedings for the clearance of data subjects. Up to 80 pst. by the protective mass, safety is cleared to the expected level during the time they attend the recruitment school. Most of the cases are thus processed within a reasonable time. The remaining part of the file is cases in which there is usually negative information that requires further investigation. In these cases, the processing time is usually long. One of the reasons for this is the strict requirements of the Safety Act for thorough and individual treatment, which must protect legal certainty. However, the length of the procedure in clearance matters is a problem that we are now aware of and that we are going to do something about. The measures we are now considering to reduce the treatment time are to increase the staffing of the Defence Security Department, to improve the electronic support of the process and to process methodology. In addition, the Ministry of Defence will set up a working group to look into any other measures, including legislation, that may contribute to a shorter period of proceedings for those responsible for protection. Restrictive drug clearance practices, perhaps in the early years, have been addressed by many here. I want to start by stating that the defence personnel should have a high ethical standard. I am absolutely sure that is a very broad consensus on this. It also prohibits the use of illicit drugs. This is also certain to do for the crews we have. Under the rules of the Security Act, this is a matter that needs to be emphasised in the context of a clearing decision. However, it cannot be the case, as someone has pointed out, that at some point in the youth, possession of drugs should automatically lead to refusal or loss of clearance. I therefore fully agree with the Committee when it points out the importance of individual treatment and the need to assess the importance of safety after social development it is appropriate to focus on individual cases of the use of light drugs. I am therefore pleased that the national safety authority as the supervisory authority is aware of the importance of the individual assessment on this issue. In conclusion, I would just like to say, with reference to this very fact, that the defence has cooperated with the Swedish Defence Agency, the Directorate of Police and the National Security Authority and has taken initiatives towards the Ministry of Knowledge to inform young people in the context of high school about what may be the consequences of getting into an unwanted situation early in youth. This can lead to a lack of clearance. This is important, and I am at least very pleased that the Ministry of Knowledge has asked the Directorate of Education to look at this matter and take it up as part of the work on the learning and growth environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2047	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3601]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2060	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2094	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposal No. 2–5, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 6-8, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Left Amendment No. 10, by Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 11-14, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of Left The proposal No will first be voted on. 11-14, from the left. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to report on the ever-increasing centralisation under the leadership of the red-green government in the context of the 2008 government budget.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the mandate of the Sørheim Committee to include the expenditure part of the income system, as well as to show new sources of income for municipalities and the new counties. Including natural resource/land rate taxes.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, in its 2009 municipal proposal, to submit a proposal for a new income system to the municipalities where a freer taxpayer is part of the system.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the annual municipal proposal to report on the status of local democracy [[Parliament's local democracy status]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2145	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in its 2008 draft State Budget, to submit a proposal on how municipalities can become the first line service for environmental information.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2160	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 9, from the right and the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government of the State budget for 2008 to strengthen the municipal sector through more free financial resources, including by increasing the municipality’s share of the taxpayer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2175	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 6-8, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to wind up today’s framework funding system and to replace it with a new system of direct state price financing for basic welfare services such as health, care, primary, secondary and social services.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size is requested by the Government to grant 1 billion. I'll pay more to the municipalities in 2008 than the government has announced in the municipal bill, and I'll pay you 2 billion. crowns of the growth of municipal income for elderly care.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in its work on a new sports notification to assess whether the fixed assets can be distributed locally.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2200	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2–5, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the cooperation project ‘Communities of the Future – Municipalities responsible for their development’ with strong positive incentives to bring about a desirable change in the municipal structure, including specific grants to the infrastructure’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to explain the conclusion and progress of the project ‘Effectiveness and efficiency development in the municipal sector’. Furthermore, it is requested that there be a case of monitoring the efficiency and efficiency development of the municipal sector and a review of the instruments used to achieve high efficiency and good quality in the municipal sector.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an information campaign against the municipalities that tells about the challenges’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a contingency plan for the extension of the school day in primary education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2232	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The deficit requested the Government of the State budget for 2008 assumes that the municipal share of corporate tax is kept at 4.25 per cent.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2262	During the debate, Jørund Rytman presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the launch of a pilot project in which some municipalities in the municipal and county elections in 2007 are allowed to carry out a limited-scale experiment with voice over the Internet and SMS.’; Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2288	There will be a vote on proposals by Mr Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 1 June 2007: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back with a thorough discussion of the rights of children and the basis for internalising children at the Foreign Internet at Trandum.’ After the President has reason to believe, the Left will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2309	There will be a vote on proposals by Mr Tøredsdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 1 June 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to find alternative solutions in the submission of new Foreign Law rather than to internalise children at the Foreign International at Trandum, for example by adding a child protection institution to the International Foreign International.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2328	There will be a vote on proposals by Mr Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 1 June 2007: ‘The government is asking the Government to adjust the investment costs of the conversion of construction to activity centres and to facilitate the conversion of existing constructions in the context of the 2008 government budget, so that operations at the international foreign exchange can meet the objective of increasing the provision of activity by the internal residents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2362	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Vera Lightcloth on behalf of Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 4, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of Right and Left There will be a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to: 1st@item: inlistbox As soon as possible, remove transitional rules in relation to workers from EEA countries.2. Evaluate simplification/modification of the legislation on work migrants from non-EU countries wishing to bring their spouse/children to Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2396	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2 and 3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to give foreign students who have completed higher education in Norway the opportunity to obtain a work permit for up to 5 years after completion of education in order to increase their competence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to: 1st@item: inlistbox As soon as possible, draw up a strategy to inform abroad about work opportunities in Norway, including the possibility of Norwegian courses abroad and the use of ‘jobnews’ or similar to disseminate information.2. [[both within the EEA territory and outside]] Established a model with prior approval of companies and a rapid track system.3. Modify the rules of work authorisation as a professional/specialist, so that the requirements for competence are more clearly defined by employers.4. Evaluate tax incentives for skilled foreign labour with a view to making Norway more attractive to highly skilled labour.5. Open for neighbouring country visas for Russian nationals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2434	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to: 1st@item: inlistbox Simplify procedures for the renewal/renewal of work permits.2. Strengthen Labour Inspectorate to ensure a good follow-up to the Action Plan against Social Dumping.3. Strengthen coordination between the UDI, the police, the outposts and the equality authorities in order to make the process more user-friendly, and ensure a response and treatment guarantee.4. Identifies the possibility of long-term visas for employees employed in enterprises located both in Norway and abroad. The visa must be valid for unlimited entry and exit from Norway. This must be done within the framework of our Schengen obligations.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2477	During the debate, Mr. Kari Lise Holmberg presented a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government: 1st@item: inlistbox Provide electronic processing of applications for a work and residence permit and their renewal by developing an electronic application module on the Internet pages of the UDI, with guides in English and the non-English languages that have a large number of applicants in experience. The application module shall interact/communicate with the processing systems of the non-resident authorities. The electronic systems of police, UDI and relevant state agencies must communicate between themselves and generate an electronic status picture that allows applicants and all case handlers to quickly look at an illustration with explanatory text, where a case is in the flow of cases. The application module must indicate any missing documents or other factors preventing progress in the application procedure at the different stages of the flow and generating alerts to this effect, so that prompt correction is possible.2. Ensure that applicants are given an electronic ID at their first visit to the police. This is how it can be achieved that as much as possible of subsequent correspondence can be done electronically. Guides are offered in several languages. Employers are offered an eID to enable the enterprise to send applications and documents electronically and to follow the application procedure on the agreement of the employee.3. Ensure that the guidance brochure such as the Central Office for Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the UDI, the Working and Welfare Session, [[NAV]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-13.ana.ud1426e2797	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting ends? - It hasn't happened.
