ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e43	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President proposes that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e52	We are currently considering the position of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture on consent to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee No. 93/2006 of 7 July 2006 incorporating into the EEA Agreement Directive 2005/29/EC of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices. It should also be mentioned that the case has been brought before the Foreign Affairs Committee, which has joined the main content of the case and referred to the comments of the individual parties. The purpose of the Directive is to introduce a ban on unfair commercial practices and to ensure the most precise and coordinated understanding and interpretation of the concept. This Directive covers only marketing and commercial practices which are appropriate to affect the financial interests of consumers. Rules on advertising which are considered to be unethical, tasteless or inappropriate fall outside the scope of the Directive. It is also limited to rules based on health and safety considerations and applies only to business-to-business relationships. The Directive is a total harmonisation directive, i.e. that all EU/EEA States must have the same rules. The Member States of the EU/EEA shall adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 12 June of this year and shall put them into action by December at the latest. Unfair commercial practices are currently regulated by the Marketing Act. The law shall ensure that traders act fairly towards each other and consumers and generally prohibit acts that are unreasonable or misleading. The central provision of the Directive has clear similarities with the prohibition of unfair marketing measures in our legislation, but there are also differences which mean that there is a need for legislative changes. As an example of the need for legislative changes, the provisions of the Directive on aggressive commercial practices are not parallel to the marketing law. While the practice of the Consumer Ombudsman and the Market Council with regard to the application of unfair marketing criteria must be presumed to be close to the standard of the Directive, a provision on aggressive commercial practices is likely to have to be incorporated into the Marketing Act. There is some uncertainty as to how the provisions of the Directive will be interpreted, the level at which common standards will subsequently be applied, and whether this will lead to less restrictive interpretation practices than those established in Norway. This concerns in particular the possibility of taking into account vulnerable groups, in particular children and young people. There is clear practice under the Marketing Act for stricter interpretation of the law when marketing targets children and young people, and it is unclear whether the Directive provides a basis for a follow-up to Norwegian practice. All parties therefore agree to ask the Ministry to continue to maintain restrictive marketing practices aimed at children and young people, including a continued ban on advertising aimed at children in Norwegian TV broadcasts. To conclude, there is a need to amend our laws and regulations, but all parties agree with the Ministry that the Directive will help to ensure a common European standard of unfair commercial practices and is essentially in accordance with Norwegian interests. The Committee therefore agrees with the Ministry's proposal to consent to approval. Otherwise, I assume that the Christian People's Party and the Left will explain their particular points in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e80	Today we are dealing with the directive on unfair commercial practices. The main purpose of rules on unfair business-to-business commercial practices is to protect the interests of consumers by preventing misleading or unfair marketing. The Directive continues and develops consumer protection in Directive 84/450/EEC on misleading and comparative advertising. Rules on advertising which are considered to be in aesthetic, tasteless or inappropriate fall outside the scope of the Directive. It is also limited to rules based on health and safety considerations and applies only to business-to-business relationships. The Directive is a total harmonisation directive, i.e. that all EU/EEA States must have the same rules. Specific marketing measures which are misleading or aggressive shall be considered unreasonable and detailed criteria shall be laid down in their own provisions. Measures against unfair commercial practices are currently regulated by the Marketing Act. The law shall ensure that traders act fairly towards each other and consumers and generally prohibit acts that are unreasonable or misleading. The entire Committee agrees with the Ministry that the Directive is broadly assumed to be satisfactory in its structure and content. However, uncertainty arises as to how the provisions of the Directive will be interpreted, the level at which common standards will subsequently be applied, and whether this could lead to less restrictive interpretation practices than those established in Norway. This concerns in particular the possibility of taking into account vulnerable groups, in particular children and young people. There is clear practice under the Marketing Act for stricter interpretation of the law when marketing targets children, young people and other vulnerable groups, and it is unclear whether the Directive provides any basis for a follow-up to Norwegian practice in all respects. Children and adolescents are a group that is subject to a large commercial pressure. Recent studies — but also older studies — show that children are heavily influenced by advertising. There has been a survey in the Norwegian press recently that children are getting fatter because of advertising etc. This is serious. Children and young people need greater protection, and SV will emphasise – and expect – that the Department must continue to work to maintain the restrictive practices we have in Norway in marketing aimed at children and young people, including a continued ban on advertising aimed at children in Norwegian TV broadcasts. On the side of the SV, we will follow closely the progress made after the directive has been put into effect, and we will also refer to the proposal we have just discussed here in the Chamber, on advertising-free children's cinema, which SV wants. We will follow this closely and hope that the department will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e95	\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t The main purpose of the rules we adopt today is to protect consumers' interests by preventing their marketing from being fraudulent or unethical. However, measures against unfair commercial practices are already regulated today. Marketing laws shall ensure that traders act in a real way towards each other and the consumers and generally prohibit acts which are unruly or misleading. There is uncertainty as to the interpretation of the provisions of the Directive, the level at which common standards will subsequently lie, and whether this will result in less restrictive interpretation practices than those established in Norway. This is particularly true of the possibility of considering vulnerable groups, especially children and young people. While there is clear practice under the Marketing Act for stricter interpretation of the laws when marketing targets children, young people and other deferred groups, it is unclear whether the Directive provides a basis for a follow-up to Norwegian practice. It is also uncertain as to the importance of the Directive on Unfair Commercial Practices for the Norwegian ban on advertising directed against children in Norwegian television broadcasts. This will be confirmed in response from the State Councils to the Committee. The Christian People's Party believes that we must maintain the restrictive practice when it comes to marketing aimed at children and young people, under this a further ban on advertising directed against children in Norwegian TV broadcasts. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the entire Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, shares our views on this matter, although only the Left supports our proposal. Children and young people are already under strong commercial pressure. It is then important to be able to regulate the media through legislation in order to limit this pressure. Children and young people need unadvertised zones, where they get to play and learn without being pushed into the role of consumer. The Christian People's Party therefore makes proposals, together with the Left, where we ask the Government to come back to the Stortinget in its own way if the directive does not provide a basis for maintaining a further ban on advertising directed against children in Norwegian television broadcasts. Advertising aimed at children increases the purchasing pressure and reinforces traditional gender roles. Therefore, it is no surprise that the US, which has a liberal media code, is one of the least equal countries in the Western world. The Christian People’s Party believes that in the future too we must ensure that children and young people watching TV are taken care of as children and young people, not just as consumers. According to a health assessment, the Christian People's Party has chosen to support the Government's proposal to consent to the adoption of the Directive. Harmonisation of consumer protection rules will strengthen consumer protection in a number of countries that have had less stringent rules, which will also be positive for Norwegian consumers in cross-border marketing. Strengthening cooperation in the enforcement of consumer legislation will also facilitate the cessation of illegal marketing from other EEA countries. These are the positive effects of the Directive. Since the adoption of the Directive, the Commission has indicated, on a number of occasions, that the Directive limits its right to uphold national decisions on information obligations. The reason for this is that the Directive provides for commercial practices which are unreasonable because it does not provide information of any significant significance to consumers' choices, which is exhaustive when it comes to what information is to be given to consumers. This means that the Directive will limit national decisions on information obligations. We need to ensure Norwegian consumers have the right to adequate information so that they can make a good choice. I hope the Government will follow the developments in this matter carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e116	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e119	I will then, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left, take up the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e124	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e127	The approach in this case shows that there is a broad consensus that we need strict rules to protect the interests of consumers by preventing misleading or unfair marketing. It is therefore natural that a proposal for common international rules which has this very heading should be welcomed, even where this implies that Norwegian laws and regulations must be amended without any wish to do so from Norwegian authorities or bodies representing Norwegian consumer interests. In this respect, it appears, by further studying the proposal for the inclusion of the Directive on unfair commercial practices against consumers in the internal market, that later interpretation of the provisions of the Directive could result in our legislation becoming less restrictive in key areas than it is at present. The new common rules against unfair commercial practices may in fact mean that our practice of stricter interpretation of the law when marketing targets children, young people and other vulnerable groups may become illegal. In this case, the ban on advertising addressed to children in Norwegian television broadcasts may have to be lifted. This is so far from the majority for in the Stortinget. All – with the exception of the Advance Party – stress in the preamble that there still has to be an option through the law to ensure free zones in order to reduce the commercial pressure to which children and young people are subjected. It is a clear prerequisite for the support of the Centre Party to incorporate this Directive that our ability to maintain current strict marketing practices aimed at children and young people continues. I have noticed that the Progress Party and the Right will carefully consider that a transitional period of six years is required if the Directive would in practice lead to the lifting of the advertising ban. But children and young people are as vulnerable in six years as they are today, and I think it is important that we take responsibility over time. The proposition also mentions that the current rules on national disclosure obligations will have to be limited without clarifying the practical consequences. I believe that this case well illustrates that the overall provisions to promote the EU's internal market also override democratic processes in an EEA country. There is no support in the Norwegian people to state the advertising ban for Norwegian children's television programmes. On the contrary, that's my strong impression. I am pleased that we now have a government that will work vigorously to ensure that our national interests are safeguarded in this matter. In this way, we can keep our ban on advertising aimed at children, so that we do not allow the opposite to be a consequence of this directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e144	There has been a reference to advertising pressure on children and young people. The right fully agrees that it is important to have a damper on the advertising press on this group. The question is just how do we achieve it, and how do we get it? I think this case illustrates in a very good way that the world is about more than Norway. The world is quite big. In any case, it covers the EU area and is even larger in the case of children. It is possible to capture children's channels from other parts of the world on very many people's television sets, and magazines or books of advertising come to us from other parts of the world. So it's not as simple as someone might think, that if we had strict rules in our little national spirit, the matter was solved. If we're going to be able to get something else, we actually have to work into larger forums and into larger contexts. This is not how the EU would have been the worst place to start. The EU is a mastodont wall in the wall with us. It's a cultural area that produces for children, and we have to assume that our children look a lot at this, because it's similar to our area. It is an area that is heavily international in terms of governing what kind of rules apply in international media reality. It's a real counterweight to the United States as a whole, with the advertising rules that apply there. Yes, perhaps it is that our influence towards the EU is one of the most important channels — perhaps even more important than our national — to curb the advertising pressure against children. It should be of particular concern to those who think we should isolate ourselves completely in relation to the European Union, but perhaps also a little to reflect on those who think that the housekeeper contract we are living in today, namely the EEA Agreement, is sufficient. I believe it must be right that the Government in its work on advertising aimed at children has an active relationship with EU bodies. Luckily, we have room for that – at least for a while on the way. Although we're not sitting at the table when the rules we're about to implement are actually being adopted, we have the opportunity to raise these questions in a good part of the sub-organizations. I am quite sure that these will be issues that will win out in many EU countries. It is not particularly original to think that children should be spared from the advertising forces. I also wonder what is meant when you say that you will follow closely, and when you ask the Government to come back in an appropriate way if this does not go as you imagine. In the name of justice, what do you think the government will do? Of course, the government may think of measures other than those relating to advertising rules, to remedy this, but it is frankly unfair to the Government to expect it to be able to get out of an EU directive without giving some sort of guidance on how to do so. So, yes, I agree with those who say that we should use the interpretation room that exists to hold a restrictive position, but we also have to stick our finger in the ground and say that this is how the contractual system is with the EU. The room for interpretation may be limited, and then we need to find transitional arrangements that are in place to live with. That's why we've joined this six-year period, which is signaled in the proposition, and which is probably also within what is possible in this context. But it could be interesting, when the council now has to have the word, to hear how she thinks this. There might be something here that I don't know about what is the actual room to get back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e157	It is important that we as consumers can rely on what is said in advertising and marketing, and that those who are going to sell us goods and services act in a fair and proper way. The marketing law is the law to ensure that the rules of the game are followed by traders, so that the market operates in the best possible way. The Unfair Commercial Practices Directive is the EU's response to the Marketing Act. The Directive shall ensure that traders act in a manner that is appropriate, so that consumers are not misled, tricked or pushed into a purchase or contract situation. The fact that consumers throughout the EEA will benefit from this type of regulation in the future will be a positive consequence of the Directive. The proposal for a new marketing law, which has been transposed, has recently been consulted. The consultation note examined the relationship between current practice and the Directive’s rules and none of the hearing bodies disagreed with this assessment. It is, of course, difficult to say just where the borders will be drawn up after the new legislation, especially because it is European legislation that will be applied gradually throughout the EEA territory. However, it is our opinion that the Directive is essentially equivalent to the rules of the current marketing law. I am therefore pleased that the Committee endorses the Government’s proposal to consent to the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement. I note that in its position the Committee is particularly concerned about the implications of the Directive for the current rules on advertising aimed at Norwegian children and young people. There's also something that occupies the government strongly. The Marketing Act is currently being interpreted more stringently when children are the target group for marketing. The reason for this is that children do not have the same knowledge and experience as adults, which the entrepreneurs do not need to take advantage of. At the same time, we see that our children and young people are still a more attractive target group. The Directive also provides for special consideration to be given to children when marketing this group. In the proposal for a new marketing law, one of the Ministry's proposals was to make the needs of children more visible in the law. It was proposed to include current practice in this area in the law, and I am pleased that the hearing bodies agree that special consideration should be given to children. I can assure the Committee that we will continue to work to ensure the best possible protection for children and young people in the new marketing law, as the Committee also asks. With regard to the Norwegian ban on television advertising specifically aimed at children, I have informed the Committee about the uncertainty that exists. I would like to stress that both the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church are working to ensure that today's legislation can continue. I also intend to submit proposals for a new marketing law to the Stortinget during the year. Then I want to say, at the very end of my post, that I look very closely at the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Left. I very much agree that it is important for the Government to follow closely the efforts to ensure that consumers have the right to sufficient information, which will enable us, as consumers, to make informed choices. I also want to say that when Stortinget decides to adopt an EEA directive, it is clear that it has consequences. With regard to the point that I feel the opposition and the whole Storting is concerned about, namely the protection of our children and young people, I can guarantee that we will do our utmost to ensure that we can get good regulation. But it's like the representative Olemic Thommessen says: we are living at an increasingly international time, and our children and young people are now facing a completely new development where it's difficult to use the national state framework to regulate in the way we might want. Therefore, strong international cooperation in this field is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e180	In the posts of government partners, SV and the Central Party, there is a relatively long way to go about this directive. The spokesperson of the Centre Party in the matter goes, as I see it, strongly into the EEA Agreement in general. If this Directive does not allow the Norwegian ban on advertising to children and young people to be maintained, is it such that the Government intends to use a veto right or break the EEA Agreement in this matter? In that case, this case will escalate into a relatively serious and comprehensive case, if you are to interpret the comments of the Centre Party in the case – the central party, which is a government partner in this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e185	I understand very well the question that the representative Knudsen raises. At the same time, I want to stress that this is going to be a little bit of a hypotheses, but that the government has to come back to this if it turns out to be a reality. I want to refer to the post I just made, about how the Government places emphasis on what the Storting points out as important, namely to have a good protection for our children and young people. If we were to get into such a current situation, the government had to go into it concretely and evaluate it. Then I will come back to it at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e192	I'd like to commend the Council of State for listening to what comes from the plurality of the committee, and the Stortinget. She emphasises the importance of this by protecting children and young people from the commercial pressure of advertising, and says that one will come back to Stortinget if one does not hear of a ban, as we have today. That's what I thought was positive. The Council of State was so concerned that the Directive would be able to limit national information destination(s). It is true that when consumers are faced with choices, they need to be provided with the most information possible – and they will go further than the directive. Is there any other way we can ensure that this is followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e199	I am very pleased that that question is raised, because what the representative is asking about is essential throughout consumer policy. It may also be the biggest challenge we have in regulating the market in a good way. It is precisely about providing consumers with good information about the contracts concluded between the buyer and the seller. This is also about the fact that we have some limitations on how much the authorities can go into and regulate these areas. But we are now working intensively with the Marketing Act, and we are going to put forward a proposal, which I hope can get good support in Stortinget, where we will just light up the point that the representative raises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e206	I could imagine following up the question of the representative of the Knudsen and the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left for a decision, because there is actually a proposal for a decision that the Government will come back to the Stortinge in an appropriate way if this does not go the way we imagine. As I was in my post, it seems a little helpful that, if you are not satisfied, you should be able to change something that actually rocks the EEA Agreement. I could imagine repeating the question to the Council of State: Could she reflect a little on what should be a suitable way, if that is so that we can't implement the legislation we actually prefer? If so, what should we do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e213	The first thing we do, regardless of this directive, is to include a separate chapter in the new marketing law dealing with children and young people and the commercial pressure. There has been a strong commitment on the part of both the previous government and the current government since the Nyborg Committee in its time dropped off from its position, for the need to step in and limit the influence on our children and young people that commercial actors have today. So that's how, as I said instead, if this situation arises, the government has to have the opportunity to evaluate it. But I want to say to the Christian People's Party and the Left that I take very seriously this commitment. Nor can I see that there would be a problem if the Committee and the Stortinge get this information in some form if the Government became familiar with it. I'll be sensitive to that. Then we get back to what will be a proper way to inform the Storing. I'm very positive about the exposure that the opposition has in this field. When we can go hand in hand on some political issues, we should actually take advantage of that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e222	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e227	In the speeches from both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, it was suggested that the Progress Party was not as concerned as the other parties about the commercial pressure on children and young people. Here I have to quote from the setting, which includes: read: ‘The Committee asks the Ministry to continue to work to maintain restrictive marketing practices aimed at children and young people, including a continued ban on advertising aimed at children in Norwegian TV broadcasts.’ So the claims – or hints – that come, are groundless. I would also like to say that the representative from the Central Party is going to draw it far when he says that the Progress Party and the Right will take care of a transitional arrangement. It is in fact his own government that in the proposition outlines this transitional arrangement. It is mentioned in the proposition – and is therefore a recommendation of his own government. So when you go into other parties, you might want to be something close to reality and not create a disagreement where there's no disagreement. The big question in this case is what happens if you don't get schemes and legislation in Norway, as everyone here on the Stortinget obviously wants. In my reply to my reply, I realized that the Council of State was dangerously close to wanting to break the EEA Agreement, or veto it, while I feel that it becomes somewhat more nuanced in relation to the question asked by the representative Olemic Thommessen from the Right. I see it as an information matter for Stortinget, and of course we are happy about that. At the same time, however, we believe that the EEA Agreement is so central to Norway that it should be maintained. And I also perceive that this is the signal from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e243	I am pleased that the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen explains that the Progress Party is also concerned about the commercial pressure on children and young people. The background for me to include the Progress Party in my post is that there's a common comment that everyone's on, except for the Progress Party, which reads like this: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, will point to the strong commercial pressure to which children and young people are subjected and the importance of being able to regulate the media through legislation in order to limit this pressure. The daily exposure of children and young people to increasing commercial pressure suggests that there should be no advertising zones.’ I hope that the Progress Party will take an offensive initiative and look ahead when it comes to commercial pressure on children and young people. I am very happy if they are still involved in the debate on this and will fight against the commercial pressure that children and young people are being subjected to. Finally, on the basis of the positive signals given by the Council of State during the debate – she said that the Government will come back to the Storting if one in the future is unable to keep the exception when it comes to television advertising against children – I will turn the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e257	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1995]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e273	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the staff. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e282	An overall committee shares the view of the proposers that poor people in Norway are a small homogeneous group and that it is important both to prevent and help those who have debt problems. The examination of the document shows that there is a broad political consensus that we need to find good regulatory solutions. However, in the case of individual proposals, the Committee is distinguished by different majority and minorities. Several of the proposals are linked to the Debt Regulations Act. This law was one of several social policy instruments launched in the early 1990s to address private debt problems. The law has been revised several times, but still many debtors are broken by debt. In connection with this proposal for a representative, the left has been contacted by many with debt problems. For those of us who have fortunately not experienced an unmanageable debt situation, it is difficult to understand how this is experienced. But what I understand is that there are many different reasons why people have problems paying their debts. The little homogeneous composition of victims of debt clearly poses political challenges. I would like to point out first that figures from the State Institute for Consumer Research show that the number of households with recurring payment problems is going down. Fortunately, Norwegian loan customers are evenly superior to good payers. On the other hand, indebtedness among private individuals has been very high for a long time, and now that interest rates are rising, the Left is concerned about a situation where more people can have debt problems. It is important to prevent such a situation from occurring. The left considers that the prevention of debt problems can best be done by strengthening the municipal advisory service, and we support the proposals to establish a green information number and a web portal. However, the left does not support the proposal to establish a debt register. The reason for the establishment of such a register is that it is difficult for financial institutions to fulfil their deterrent obligation in the case of consumer loans. We follow the reasoning partly on the way, but will recall figures from the Credit Authority that show that losses on consumer loans are low and not much larger than losses on newly created mortgages. This may indicate that a lack of credit rating is not such a big problem as to defend the establishment of a register in which all citizens’ indebtedness is recorded. The left will warn against general solutions to problems involving a few, very different, people. Such a register will obviously require both creation and operation of resources. However, our main argument against the register is that a well-functioning debt register must be so extensive that it will undoubtedly pose a threat to the privacy of the individual. I would like to remind you that we are still experiencing pressure against privacy. The left realizes that, in many ways, it is demanding to adopt a principle of privacy, and we note that other parties find it difficult to pursue a principle of privacy policy. However, it may not be difficult to imagine that many other than creditors would like to have access to such a register. In these Watch and Hearing hours, the Left believes that there is enough reason to exercise caution in creating new registers of personal data. Preventing debt problems is necessary but not sufficient. Experience shows that there are events following the formation of the debt, which is most often the cause of the debt problem. It may be illness, a break in life, unemployment or other totally unforeseeable events. Such conditions cannot be avoided by a thorough credit assessment and a comprehensive debt register will not assist those individuals. The left has become aware that the counselling services in the municipalities are not sufficient and are too few. Strengthening financial advice in municipalities will undoubtedly be an important measure to help them with financial problems. In addition, the Left considers that there is a need to establish a debt regime outside the courts. There is a need for a mechanism to enable people with serious debt problems to deal with dignity in a smooth and fair manner. In other countries, there is a solution-oriented debt regime to help with this. In England, for example, they have establish a foundation to help people with debt problems, including: by assisting the debtor in drawing up a structured repayment plan. The left believes that such a system would be of great help to many in Norway as well, and has therefore, together with the Right and the Christian People's Party, proposed the creation of such an out-of-court debt regime. Through contact with victims of debt, we have been given the impression that many experience debt negotiations as humiliating. It probably says something about that in Norway we have a low tolerance limit for economic misrepresentation. I want to make it clear that the starting point is always that loan agreements are to be held. Nevertheless, it is a cross of thought that almost everyone who has started business says that it is more likely to fail than to succeed. I read an interview with your money founder, Christian Vennerød, who was printed in Dagbladet a few years ago. There he was confronted with the fact that he was named in the bankruptcy register in Brønnøysund. ‘You’re not ashamed to be registered?’ asked the journalist.’ I'm proud of it," replied Venneröd. Buddy red thought it was ‘fight’ and ‘pysete’ never to go bankrupt. I don't want to get in as hard as Venerød. Payment problems are not noble. But what we can learn from his statements is that if we want a creative culture, with more entrepreneurs, we have to provide a better safety net for those entrepreneurs who fail. In Norway, success should be allowed, but failure should also be allowed. The left, together with the Progress Party and the Right, therefore proposes that improvements be investigated in the legislation for self-employed people who have debt problems. With this I take up proposal No. 1 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right and left, and proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e327	The representative, Alvhild Hedstein, has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e330	I would first like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for promoting this representative proposal on combating debt problems and poverty. I understand the intentions behind the proposal. After many years as a municipal debt advisor, I know that there are many out there who appreciate that they are not forgotten. We see here today that they are not. In particular, I will pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for these proposals for action: a green number for a financial guidance service and debt web portal where victims of debt are informed about how they can either help themselves or get help through the provision of a clear instruction to public creditors in general – as has been seen over a number of years perhaps the most difficult creditor is to negotiate with and – in particular, point 13 – develop good nationwide procedures for voluntary public administration of the economy of individuals; All these good proposals for action, I hope the Government will take them with me when this Document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. The measures won't cost much, but they will mean so much to those who are struggling with economic problems. However, it is not all in this document No. The 8-proposal that the Progress Party can join, even if the intentions are never that good. It must always be borne in mind that the Debt Code is initially a matter between two parties, namely the debtor and the creditor, and where everyone else should – and should – be a third party and a neutral negotiator between the parties. I heard the representative of the Left raise the proposal for an out-of-court debt regime. Such a scheme already exists. It is fully possible to negotiate with a municipal economic advisor to a voluntary scheme without going through the namsman. It is important for this person, whether you are a creditor or a debtor, whether the debt regime is out of law or forced, that you have an underlying desire to settle – regardless of whether you are able to pay 50 kroner a month or 5000 dollars. I will come to the following with this argument: should we introduce all the measures proposed by the Christian People's Party in its 13 points – such as. embellishment of the conditions under which the term of the debt regime can be set at 0 years, that the term of the debt regime is reduced from five years, as it is today, to three years, that more debt regimes can be allowed, and that, in the event of a consumption debt, there should be an absolute limitation period of five years – would tell everyone out there who spends more money than they have, that this is enough, because we have the debt regime law. Such a decoration of the whole law would have no preventative effect, and then we as legislators should be careful. In addition — and perhaps not least — it is important not to make clients of people who, at some point in their lives, need a debt regime. The vast majority of people I've met who have come into such a situation either because of illness, loss of work or a break in their lives – and most people actually have a real reason – have the will to settle themselves, but they don't, quite simply. Therefore, the dignity these people feel should be taken care of. They are not to be made poor, but to be supported along the way. It might be here that the public has largely failed. A debt register may be good, but it should be investigated. And information should be obtained from similar registers in other countries. Perhaps such a register can help prevent more people from borrowing more than they should, but let's first get an assessment of this. I don't think those who have got a debt arrangement, who are done with the debt, run the right to the nearest credit company to ask for new loans. Nor can we be child guards for the entire population of Norway in terms of their money consumption, in order to prevent anyone from using over-capacity. It should primarily be the responsibility of the lenders to ensure that one has a creditworthy customer. The banks also said in the hearing on this matter that they had the credit rating agencies, and that it was enough for them. Nevertheless, I would like to praise the Christian People's Party for the initiative they have taken, which has led to the debate we have here today – a debate that we hope will also be held in the future. Just a small heart attack until the end: I hope the government coordinates the debt regime, so that the handling of a case does not take nearly a year – because the matter is to be dealt with by three departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e367	The President will recall that there is a proposal ahead of him.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e370	I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e375	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e378	I would also like to start by decorating some of the proposers, because it is a very important issue that is being addressed. It is also very important that this issue is high on the agenda here on Stortinget. Those who are the most at risk of going out of business are the ones who are the ones who are the weak at the beginning, like, for example. young people in the start-up phase. That's why it's very important that we take some action to prevent the problem and focus on getting the knowledge and guidance they need as much as possible, in order to avoid getting into an economic situation. The best way to tackle the debt problem is – as in most other cases – through prevention work, while, of course, taking care of those who have already been in trouble. Very many of the measures in this document section. The 8 proposal, there is a broad consensus in the Committee. When the government parties do not go in too many of the proposals, it is primarily because we believe that most things have been done through the current work of the government. This is something I think the Council of State is going to explain later. With regard to this so-called debt register, we agree that there is a mechanism that deserves to be investigated. There is reason to believe that with such a system you can make sure that people who are in a difficult economic situation have not received loans that will only exacerbate the situation. But, as the Left attaches great importance, it is very important that privacy is protected – now I don't dare to talk so much about Look and Listen, but it is clear that this will be very interesting for some. That is why we believe it is very important to take account of that part of the issue during the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e389	We live in a welfare society where most of us have quite a liberal framework in how we live our lives. It's great for us, but it doesn't make the situation easier for those who fall outside, and for the minority who struggle with the face of poverty. I think it's important to bring with you in a society that maybe doesn't have that much room for poverty. It's not that easy to find cheap solutions to how to live your life in our country. It's an important perspective to have when you're going to try to figure out what it means to be poor, and by thinking about how we're going to make a device that helps people out of poverty. It is important that these questions come up at regular intervals. It's not been that long since they were up. Nevertheless, it is commendable, I think, by the Christian People's Party, to take this up now. There are 13 points that have been raised. I can't possibly go through everybody. Several of the proposals I think it is worth taking with me – for example. on a green number and a web portal. I'm going to focus here on a couple of points that I think deserve more attention. The first is self-employed. A reason why no self-employed persons have been seen in the same position or role as normal employees has been that the civil servant or the system around him has not had the necessary competence to deal with such matters. I honestly think that if that's the only reason, it's a failure statement in relation to avoiding a whole group of necessary help. I have a history as a lawyer and have been a resident of many small business owners – small shops, small agencies, craft companies – who have gone bankrupt. Those who have invested a large part of their lives — and their enthusiasm — into these projects are drifting into a debt out of the ordinary Norwegian salary that they do not have the prospect of dealing with. Then it's awfully unreasonable that there are holes in the system that make them fall outside, or that they're almost dissenting the ability to carry on an activity. I don't think poor or inadequate competence in the public sector is a good excuse. Here we should go into the legislation and see if it is not possible to stack on the legs any bodies that actually manage this, and that allow the group, which is actually quite large, to get it worth it. The second thing I want to comment on is the debt register. There's every reason for skepticism. I mainly agree with the Left's considerations about this. It's true, as it's said, the time when it goes wrong is not necessarily when the debt is taken up. It's later. I think a debt register can be a gap stick very quickly. It could be an arena where you can mess up in other people's accidents, and maybe just the group I was in instead, those who have met a bankruptcy once in their lives, actually never get out of it. It may well be that Vennerød is proud to be listed in the bankruptcy register, but I think he is quite alone in being proud of it. Most of us others would see it as a heavy burden, which actually pursues one through life. Our attitude to the debt register is that you should not spend a lot of time working on it. Here, the privacy considerations are prominent and considerate. There's also something about being careful with everything you do in relation to the good intention. That's the sum of all the measures that ultimately change the society we live in. Finally, I would like to say that, in general, it is important to have a policy in relation to employment and education that brings people out of poverty. We're also going to have that perspective in other areas we work with, not only when we have a debt regulation law or other measures on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e406	Today we are dealing with Document No. 8:95 for 2005-2006, and the proposers have proposed 13 measures to combat poverty and prevent debt problems. Like many others, I would like to congratulate the proposers, who have made many good proposals to help individuals who have debt problems. In several areas, the government is committed to helping those who have arisen in a debt situation, so that they do not experience a lifelong poverty trap. Many measures have been taken by the Government to help people in such a difficult situation. The 2007 State budget has included various measures to reduce fees. The measures will constitute a substantial fee element. An intensive training programme has also been launched for the financial advisors in the municipalities. The aim is to strengthen the competence of economic advisors in debt advisory. SV agrees with the proposers that poor people in Norway are a diverse group and would stress the importance of both preventing debt problems and helping those who have problems paying their debts. The debt growth among private individuals has been very high for a long time, and the debt burden is now higher than it was in the run-up to the previous debt crisis. This is related to the strong increase in housing prices. The potential problems are greatest in the youngest age groups, and we will therefore have an increased focus on measures that can help reduce the risk of debt problems. An important prevention response to debt problems, especially among young people, is education in the personal economy of the school. This has been introduced both in primary and secondary schools and includes, among other things: instruction on the consequences of borrowing. It is also important that the marketing of loan offers is both sober and sufficiently indicative. And it's important that those who are offered loans and credit are given information about the real borrowing costs, the effective interest rate. In point 9 of the proposed document, the Government is asked to assess whether a new and more comprehensive register should be created in which the debt burden and other relevant information are made available to credit providers in a better and more comprehensive way than at present. A similar proposal has been previously assessed and rejected for privacy reasons. The data subject concluded in 2003 that such a register would be in breach of data protection law. Such a register will require a new basis and changes to the Personal Data Act. Before such a register is created, we believe it is important to consider whether this can help to avoid debt problems. Furthermore, it is important to consider whether the data protection problems can be solved. Sweden has good experience with such a register. In the light of this, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are promoting the following proposals, which are also the Committee's suspension: ‘The government is asking for a register of private individuals’ loan balances to be an appropriate tool to limit debt problems among individuals. [[‘Currency Register’]] In particular, it shall be assessed whether such a register may conflict with regard to privacy. The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate form with the case.» Point 12 deals with public creditors in general and the equality rate in particular. SV would stress that citizens with debts must meet with respect for the public, even when they have problems paying their debts. We will also show that there is a permit to surrender tax claims, so that you can help the individual. The Government of the Ministry of Finance has also consulted on a proposal to introduce a universal service exemption for taxpayers who receive a complete and properly pre-filled declaration. A working group has also been set up to look at tax requirements that are the main cause of debt problems. Finally, I would like to refer to the Innst. O. No 12 for 2006-2007, which addresses several of the measures taken by the Government to help disadvantaged victims. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e438	Norway is a welfare society, and we should be proud of that. But Norway is also a consumer society, where the status and value are often related to money and material values. These are features of society that are alarming, because it results in social exclusion, a sense of inferiority, disease and, in some cases, a heavy debt burden. It is an important starting point for those who have an obligation to do so separately. We must therefore be careful to put in place mechanisms that rock this principle. But at a time when uncivil credit is being marketed in a very aggressive way, the Christian People's Party believes that the risk of miscarriage should to some extent be shifted from the consumer to the longevity. Today, consumption can follow the debtor's whole life. The Christian People's Party believes that an absolute limitation period should be introduced for consumption debts of five years. This will help to reduce the extreme lending and motivation of credit institutions for a more thorough assessment of the individual customer’s ability to repay. We would like to introduce an obligation for the credit-purchase companies to discourage customers from borrowing if they see that repayment will be difficult. In order to be able to derive from it, it is crucial to have access to information about the customer. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that the government party meets us and suggests that a request by the Government be made as to whether a debt register will be appropriate. We support this proposal in a subsidiary way. A person who has an immeasurably high debt burden may be forced into a debt arrangement. This means that one pays as much debt as one clears for a five-year period, and that the debt that remains will be cleared. However, several persons who have obtained a debt arrangement find it difficult to meet the conditions as liabilities during the period of the debt arrangement. We know, for example. one in four incurs new liabilities while they are under a debt arrangement. Many of those with a high debt burden struggle with different personal challenges, such as drug abuse, illness and long-term unemployment, and it may be difficult to meet the structural and disciplinary requirements of a debt regime. Close follow-up is therefore often necessary during the period of the debt regime. But today, no public service has an obligation to follow up and provide assistance to people who are in debt. The Christian People's Party would like such a follow-up duty to be given to the reputables. We also believe that the general term of the debt regime should be reduced from five to three years and that it should be streamlined to extend the period of the debt regime. We can't live with a situation where many people experience a debt regime as a more severe punishment than the one that punishes those who are convicted of serious crime. When the debt is incurable, it is possible to contact the creditors and try to get a reduced refund agreement. However, in addition to this, public creditors, municipal debtors, lawyers and debtors all report that public creditors very often look at the backbone of such requests, and that they reject the requests without even appreciating the humane concerns that may give rise to total or partial indebtedness. According to the Christian People's Party, there is a need for a clear instruction to public creditors in general, and to the bill of equations in particular, which obliges them to conduct individual assessments of claims for indebtedness. It is fundamental that the public takes human care and treats citizens as fellow human beings. Talking to family and friends about debt problems can be difficult. However, in order to prevent individuals from falling into a debt trap, it is important to get good advice at an early stage. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be a free telephone service that you can call and ask advice on economic issues. We also want to strengthen the municipal debt advisory services. There is also a need to create a user-friendly web portal to inform people about both how debt problems can be prevented and how to deal with the situation when debt burdens become excessive. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Committee is in favour of these measures. I had requested that the government party had encountered many more of our proposals, but I find that we have come a bit on the right road. But I hope the Government will work intensively on this. Finally, I would like to address the Christian People's Party's proposal, no. 4th@item: inlistbox I also want to make a correction in the setting: In case of an incursion, the Christian People's Party is not on proposal No. 1; we should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e470	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e473	I join in the praise of the representatives of the Christian People's Party who support this private proposal, which gives Stortinget the opportunity for a new discussion of measures to prevent debt problems among Norwegian households. It is fine that there is such broad consensus that such prevention is important – for the sake of society and most for the benefit of many individuals who can be affected if we have a new debt crisis like the one we had in the 1980s. The Ministry's briefing on the financial position of households in the letter to the Committee is to the extent of reassuring reading. Despite significant indebtedness growth in recent years, very few problems exist in servicing their debt. The State Institute for Consumer Research found in 2004 that only 4 pst. of Norwegian households had recurring payment problems — a halve of two years and the lowest measured since 1985. At the same time, there is reason to stress that this favourable situation can change rapidly. Increased unemployment, higher interest rates and falling housing prices can quickly give rise to a different situation. It is therefore an important precaution to remember which changes may occur. This is a responsibility for the authorities, both locally and centrally, but also for those who market loans and credit, and who have a deterrent obligation to loan applicants who might have problems. When only four of the 13 points in the proposal from the Christian People's Party get a majority today, that doesn't mean there's a great deal of disagreement about the others. Some are considered unnecessary, as the government has already initiated the investigations requested. This applies, inter alia, to: the rules on the length of the period of indebtedness. Similarly, the Banking Law Commission is conducting an investigation into the non-admissibility of credit buy-in companies. With regard to several other proposals, the situation is that the majority of the Committee believes that the arrangements relating to the Debt Scheme Act are better in practice than those used by the proposers. There are currently significant opportunities to use judgement for the benefit of the debtor when there are particular reasons for doing so. On such a basis, several debt regimes may be granted to the same person and the period of the debt regime may be extended and shortened. The majority believe that follow-up, guidance and assistance under the Debt Schemes Act of the municipal authorities and the civil servant can and should be better than today, but that this is not primarily restricted by the law. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, is promoting proposals to investigate the establishment of a debt register in order to provide creditors with a better basis for the deterrent imposed on them. It is requested that the investigation should pay particular attention to the relationship with privacy. Several have been involved in this in the debate. The centre party is, as the rest of the committee, subject to strong privacy. The protection of privacy must be balanced against the possibility of preventing debt problems for many. The situation of those engaged in the business of individual enterprises has been discussed by the Committee. The same theme was thoroughly addressed before Christmas in the treatment of changes to the Share Act. In particular, the possibility of opening up personal bankruptcy with the cancellation of debt was discussed, as is the practice. in the United States. A majority of the Judicial Committee, the Labour Party, Right and SV, then said: ‘In the view of the majority, it is an advantage to have a law and a system relating to economic problems in business... and another system to find a solution for individuals.’ In dealing with this case, it is clear that traders who have ceased their business or who have debt problems as individuals may have debt arrangements as others. The centre party agrees very much with those who say in the setting that we need to give more help to those who want to start their own business. But then the question is, how do we do it the best? Finally, a few words about the role of public creditors in debt negotiations. My impression is that local tax collectors often show great flexibility, so that they do not hinder or delay a scheme. Many, on the other hand, have found that the government’s tax collection is not solution-oriented to the same degree. We are in doubt that there is no need for further instructions on debt relief, but are aware of the challenge and support the Ministry of Finance's assessments in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e495	I am very pleased that there is a searchlight on how we can best counter the debt problems. The Christian People's Party has earned a great deal of praise in this debate for the initiatives that have been taken. I also think that there is reason to give the party, because this helps to point out whether we have made enough for people who have come into a very difficult life situation for different reasons. There are many who have highlighted in a very good way what the consequences are for those who experience such a situation. We also know that many people who tell about how this is going to happen say that it feels like shame, a kind of shame that makes very many people not able to go to get the help they should have got at an early stage. That's why I'm very happy that the Stortinge takes this debate and that we get a good light from Stortinge's side. It will, of course, give the government important input into the further handling of these questions. Both the representative Olemic Thommessen and the representative May Hansen pointed to the importance of active labour market policy and a good fight against poverty in order to prevent such situations from occurring. It's important that we take with us when we talk about these issues. The fact that we have an active business policy that allows us to keep a working line high in our society may be the best answer to prevent people from getting into an economic situation. As the responsible State Council for the Debt Regulations Act, I follow this work very closely. It is a pleasure to see that the problems seem to be on the way back, as I also explained in my letter to the Committee of 25 October 2006. In particular, I would like to point out that the amount of the case under the Debt Scheme Act is now on its way down for the first time in many years. However, there is reason to be on guard against future debt problems. Increases in unemployment or falls in housing prices along with an increase in interest rates can lead to a dramatic change in the situation of people compared to today. I am therefore pleased that the Committee will focus more on actions that can help reduce the risk of future debt problems. I note with satisfaction that we agree on many points. As regards proposal No: 4 point 1, I would like to point out that many have been solved by the Debt Regulation Act. 25 000 indebtedness schemes have now been put in place since the law came into force. It is important that those covered by the Debt Scheme Act be provided with the necessary assistance to implement the scheme. I agree that municipal debt advisors can play a role here, as the majority of the committee agrees. I would therefore ask the officials to inform the debtors separately about the possibilities for assistance in the municipalities in cases where it seems necessary. I don't think everyone needs this kind of follow-up, but anyway, it's important that we clarify this possibility. With regard to point 6, I would like to inform you that SIFO will, first of all, request the launch of a research project on the consequences of an indebted debt regime. With regard to point 9, on establishing a debt register, there is no doubt that this is of the more demanding exercises, on which I believe the Left gave a very good picture. That is why it is important – and I will follow up on what the majority of the committee says on this point – that we are in favour of an investigation in this area. But here's the different balances that we have to take with us, so that we don't, as it was very well said, do something in the good cause's name that might be involved in undermining what we actually achieve in other fields. That's why the government here is going to start a work that makes us feel confident that the decision we may take to introduce a debt register will be of such a nature that we have ensured it in the best possible way. With regard to points 10, 11 and 13, I can inform you that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Social and Health for 2007 has asked the Directorate to carry out an examination of the proposed measures. Finally, I just want to repeat what I said in the introduction, that there are concrete proposals that have been put on the board of the Government in this matter. We're going to take them with us and come back to them in a suitable way. There are many departments that are involved in this work. I can assure you that this will be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e524	I think we're going to wake up well to rest on the laurels. Although the government parties are now telling us that the debt problems are too low, I believe that, after the central bank manager announced yesterday an increase in interest rates – which the Council of State also had in mind – that we should not believe that the time for the victims is over, rather the opposite. With that in mind, I would like to ask the Council of State a question. We have some non-governmental organisations, among others. The Debt Sacrifice Alliance, which is doing an all-out excellent job, but which unfortunately does not get enough resources to receive if there is now a lot of pressure. Because we can almost expect a new wave of debt. Then I wonder if the Council of State will ensure that the Debt Victim Alliance is given the necessary resources to receive any increase in the number of people with financial problems and to advise them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e531	I just want to say that I fully share the assessment that the representative makes of the situation we are in. There is no doubt that there are many private households that are in such a situation of borrowing, that if interest rates were to rise significantly, they would experience a completely different situation with respect to the debt regime than the one we have seen in recent years. With regard to the important work that the Debt Victim Alliance has done for many years, I would like to say that the Government will also go in and support with money this year. They have not been informed of this, but my clear recommendation is that money to the organisation should also come in this year. It is important that there are instances that individuals dare to address, perhaps an instance that is not perceived as an authoritarian authority person. It's actually the way, as I also pointed out in my post, that many who have experienced this, are actually in a mental situation where they fear to ask for needed help. Then the Debt Victim Alliance can be at least such a first step, which makes many people feel that they can get advice and guidance on how to deal with their own situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e540	It's great that the Council of States is signaling support for the Debt Victim Alliance. That's very good. Every day we see advertising all around us for credit companies that will throw consumer loans at sky-high interest rates after us, and shops that call for credit. The flame of advertising is enormous in this area. At the same time, we know that one in four people who are under a debt arrangement takes on new debts. It's extremely easy to take up a lot of debt and a lot of credit today. Some of these things take time to figure out, but are there any short-term measures that the government sees that one can get started quickly? This applies to research on the way in which those who have gone through a debt regime – the entire committee concludes that it is important for a researcher to do so – but above all, it applies to massive advertising in order for one to spend more money at sky-high interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e547	I want to start by saying that it is expensive to be poor. Therefore, it is also important that we constantly look at the possibility of consumers getting accurate information about the financial services they actually buy. The Government has recently proposed to extend the disclosure obligations of financial institutions on effective interest rates in the context of the promotion of loans and credit. It's a very clear answer to at least one of the things that we have the opportunity to do, and that we've used, and that I think will help to make one in a difficult economic situation get more insight into what an actually pays for a financial product, which one may not have been given an equally good light until now. When it comes to the question of research and evidence of this, the Government will, of course, do a job on it. But I think that everyone as a private individual has been in contact with people who have been in a debt arrangement has seen that this has been a good help that has led to a full life, and that you can both blame and have the opportunity to buy a home in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e554	In my contribution, I addressed this with the fact that the law of the debt regime and the glory to come, to put it that way, is subject to three departments, which has resulted in the fact that it has taken a very long time to get through this proposal. I wonder if the Council of State will take any initiative to coordinate this to be below one department, so that it becomes a little easier to deal with, and that you get a slightly faster procedure than a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e559	I see very clearly that we have challenges in coordinating when a law is under many departments. At the same time, of course, it is a challenge for the Government to be sure that the necessary competences in the various fields are developed in a way that gives us the best decision-making base possible, and that makes the Storting get good quality on the proposals that are being promoted here in the house. But I'm taking that view with me. I can promise that there is an impatience in this field. There's no wish from the Government that these processes should take time, but sometimes we have to go through thorough laps that make a government council even occasionally frustrated, because it's an commitment to getting a faster impact on the things we want to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e565	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e570	Let me, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, thank you for the recognition that has taken part in this debate from several parties, and also from the Council of State. I can assure you that what we declared when we entered this period, namely that we would be a watchman for the poor in Norway, we stand by, and we will be. Where the Council of State is frustrated, we will be offensive perpetrators. It does not help the poor in Norway to exchange courtesy with each other in this debate. Well, what helps is effort. We have a government that has declared that it will eliminate poverty – no, sorry, poverty – in Norway. So far, I have to say that the effort is more marked by being at the verbal level than at the practical level. It's a passivity and a inertia that can do not least those that apply, quite frustrated. Now the government parties must have a reputation for supporting part of the proposals, including: to contribute to the issuance of a debt register. It is also positive that they express support for the proposal for a green number, a separate web portal, to strengthen the information. The councils announced investigations on several points here that we are accepting with pleasure. But at the same time, it's sad that you keep up the really radical proposals here. When one hears representatives from the government parties in this debate, it is very little of the offensive and radical tone that was heard in the election campaign and from Soria Moria. Now you all sound, with respect to reporting, like big-time messages. I have fresh impressions from yesterday — perhaps more of us — from the Governor’s speech, which shows that Norway is doing better than ever. The vast majority of Norway are better off than ever. But the small minority that we're talking about here, and some people are hurting because they don't get part of this. Of course, the big test of whether the Government gets done with this is not small points in this Christian People's Party list. The big test is whether the government is going to do something about creating ways out of poverty by including poor people in the world of work. We have 600 000 people in working-age out of the labour market, and if we do not, in a situation where the country is screaming for labour, be able to include them, we will never be able to fight neither poverty nor poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e581	There are constant calls from people who face a very heavy debt burden. They feel marginalized at a time when all economic arrows seem to point upwards. It's hard to have little money in a society where everything costs. It's easy to meet the debt victims with a moralizing index finger, but we know that many have complex health, drug and economic challenges. These are not calculating cynics who want benefits at the expense of others. I expected broad support from the government parties to the proposals in this matter. We all remember how representatives from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre travelled around in the last election struggle and promised to eradicate poverty and give priority to the weak. There is a need for some decoration of the requirements of the Debt Mechanism Act. I can't see that this will reduce the general payment morale or seem offensive to the creditors, as stated in the Settings of the Advance Party, Right and Left. On the contrary, I would say that such changes will be a humane handshake to those of us who strive the most. Anyone who has a mailbox and telephone will know that the offers of unsecured consumer loans come frequently and are significant. This type of consumer loan is not rarely subject to aggressive marketing and is not subject to a thorough assessment of the soundness of the loan. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that the legislator should motivate the creditors to make a much more thorough credit rating in the individual case, and we will therefore legislate an absolute five-year limitation period for unsecured consumer loans. Such a provision would make it impossible for credit providers to collect consumption loans after the end of the five-year period, and the marketing of such loans is likely to become more moderate for that reason. I am happy to support the assessment of a debt register, so that the credit rating of financial institutions becomes more real. I am pleased to support the free financial and debt guidance service on the telephone – and a dedicated web portal. Finally, I would like to thank you for a constructive debate, and I noticed the answers that the Council of State in particular underlined. But I hope that the political commitment to the country's debt victims does not stop when dealing with this matter today. There is a need for vigilance, care and initiative in order to facilitate everyday life for those who face excessive debt burdens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e600	I would like to add a few brief comments to the post that the representative Højbrätten just made. I would like to say that the indignation shown by the representative about the government's efforts to combat poverty is not a believer. I want to say that the efforts that the Christian People's Party has made in these questions through its government participation for seven years, perhaps have shown that this as a theme was not less topical either when the Christian People's Party put in power. I want to mention that the local economy did not get the promise that was necessary, and that caused many municipalities to have problems with social assistance rates. I want to refer to what happened in relation to labour market measures and cut them. I want to refer to what happened when it came to district bets, to mention some concrete examples. I believe that what has been unique with this debate today is that the Christian People's Party has received broad support for its commitment to some of its actions. So it's like, as the representative of the Højbrätten knows perfectly well, that a government needs to have thorough assessments before making proposals for action in the Stortinget. The opposition can expect nothing more than what I feel we have actually given our support to today, because in some of these matters there is a need for investigation, among other things. in the case of debt registers, on which several of the representatives have been involved. So let's do that. We're really dealing with the recordings that Storting has given in this field. But let's try to stick together about the commitment we have to help those who have come into a difficult life situation, who need more public protection. But a debate that this government is speaking like big-time messages, and does not have an involvement with the unemployed and in the fight against poverty, with what has happened in this Chamber in the last few years, we are not taking seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e611	A lot needs to be heard before the ears fall off – when the representative Højbråten stands here and says very indignantly that this government does nothing against poverty, and that we are not offensive. We've been through a four-year period with a prime minister who promised to get rid of poverty in Norway, and there was almost nothing happening. In my post I referred to a position – I don't have time to go into all the measures that stand there – and I ask the representative Højbräten and the Christian People's Party to read it, because many of their proposals are being met here. That's the one. It was the local economy that caused very many people to come out badly in the last period, and it still bothers the municipalities. It is this government that has increased social aid rates, and it enables municipalities to care for people who struggle with their debt problems. We have cut fees, which I had in mind in my post, and many of the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made here today, about a year after they left the government, are far on the way under investigation, they are met. I also give a confession now: I think it is very good to put this on the agenda, also by the Christian People's Party. The worst thing that happened in the last period of poverty was that the number of children in need of child protection measures around our municipalities was greatly increasing. In the last period, this committee, wherever we went in this country, heard that it was the economy of the municipalities that directed the measures in the field of child protection, not the need for the kids out there. This was recorded over and over again. In fact, we now have a big problem in child protection, because what you didn't do for years is now made visible. We have an increase in the number of child protection clients at 7 pst. Every year. These are the most vulnerable, and in fact they are the most vulnerable in relation to poverty. Today's proposals are only about debt problems, and there has been a real offensive on this government. There are many, many measures that have been met and that have been implemented during this period. But the real problem of poverty lies with the housing market, which has just exploded. This also applies to social assistance rates and to different measures in the municipalities. That's where we have to put the bump.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e626	I have today expressed anger on behalf of the people involved in this matter, a rage based on the expectations of the government we now have, which is called Europe's most radical government, has created. I'm going to continue to express that indignation. I wish the Council of State used their anger in the same direction, because then we could actually continue the good cooperation that this setting adds up to. What government parties are doing is starting to become a pattern. When they are put under pressure, when they are criticized for what they themselves have promised, and what kind of expectations they themselves have created, they fall back to criticism by the previous government. It's getting so far into this period that it's either "not a believer" or "not a believer" to use the Council of State's own words. They're talking about other areas of society. But what I put the spotlight on in my post was the key role that the labour market situation would have for the government to succeed in its bold ambitions to fight poverty. There is nothing today that indicates that it is going the right way. We have a society that screams for labour, and at the same time we see that employers refuse to hire people who are in the fringes of the labour market, those who are out of line with getting a job. I repeat what I said: the very test of whether the Government will succeed in its fight against poverty is whether the Government in a situation where the country so sorely needs more labour, is able to include those who in a much tighter labour market are struggling to be included. That test is the government up to now. We can't pass the final judgment until this period is over. But if we fail to do so under these framework conditions, I would say that there is much in the declared policy that is not a believer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e635	Here in the hall we agree that the working line should apply. So there's a distinction in this room as to what means we're going to use to keep the line of work. I have seen a number of proposals from the right that have gone on that we have to weaken the social arrangements to push people out of work because you have nothing to live on. And then we have a government that says it's an unacceptable line. We have to have a safety net at the bottom, and that's what creates strength, ability, prerequisites to get the strength enough to endure to get back to work. I have experienced that the Christian People's Party on a case-by-case basis, to a greater and greater extent, has oriented itself towards the right side of these matters, i.e. in the direction of those parties that believe that we should not weaken the social arrangements to push people out of work because of lack of income, but that we should make assumptions in order to seek work. I also feel that this debate underlines this. As far as I am concerned, it is positive that the Christian People's Party is now asking for an even more dynamic state council, which responds as positively as one can well expect in relation to a number of the issues raised here today. I believe that this debate is not so much about whether we have a government that is willing to deliver on poverty, which is willing to provide solutions for those who have the most difficulty, but whether we are supported in an overall increase for the actions being promoted. Then it will also be that luckily the government has a majority, with or without support. We don't want to relax, but it's a pleasure to note that the Christian People's Party has become so unequivocally impatient after being on the right path.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e646	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1996]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e654	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e662	During the debate May-Helen Molvær Grimstad presented a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal has been transformed into a transmission proposal and sounds altered: ‘The Government is advised to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner if the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive does not provide a basis for maintaining a continued ban on advertising aimed at children in Norwegian television broadcasts.’ The President proposes that the proposal be sent to the Government without a vote of the facts, and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e688	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Alvhild Hedstein on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party – for which the debate has taken place – and the Left Amendment No. 2, by Alvhild Hedstein on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 3, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to propose a follow-up obligation to the man in charge of human beings with a debt regime. 2nd@item: inlistbox The downturn asks the Government to consider a certain embellishment of the terms for the term of the debt arrangement to be set at ‘0’. 3rd@item: inlistbox The government is asking for proposals to reduce the general period of the debt regime from five to three years. 4th@item: inlistbox The Government is asked to submit proposals to tighten up the scope for extending the period of the debt regime. 5th@item: inlistbox The government is asking the government to consider opening up more than one single person to a single debt regime during life. 6th@item: inlistbox The government is asking for a research project to be launched to provide knowledge of how those who have gone through the debt regime have been dealt with. 7th@item: inlistbox The Government requests the Government to propose an absolute limitation period for consumer debts of five years. Eight. The Board of Directors requests the Government to propose a non-advisory obligation for credit purchase companies. 9th@item: inlistbox The Government asks the Government to assess whether a new and more comprehensive register should be created in which the debt burden and other relevant information are made available to credit providers in a better and more comprehensive way than at present.10. The Government asks the Government to set up a green number for an economic and debt guidance service.11. The government asks for the creation of a web portal informing both on how debt problems can be prevented and on how it is possible to deal with the situation when the debt burden becomes too high.12. The government is asking the government to issue clear instructions to public creditors in general, and to the bill of equations in particular, which obliges them to make individual assessments of debt rescheduling requests.13. The government asks the government to consider developing good nationwide practices for the voluntary government of the individual economy.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e743	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to recover the costs and consequences for the privacy of a debt register.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e758	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the creation of an out-of-court debt regime under the English model The Consumer Credit Counselling Service [[CCCS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e773	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for further improvements in the legislation in relation to self-employed persons who are indebted to their own industrial activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-16.ana.ud1623e815	There is no record available. This way, today's maps are processed. Is there anyone who wants the word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
