ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e47	Three permit applications are available: by the Group of the Left on sick leave of the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug from 26 April onwards and until further notice from the representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave from 26 April to 9 May, both to participate in the 116th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Indonesia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates shall be invited to attend the term of leave: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Gunn Berit GärdeFor the Uppland counties: Morten Ørsal JohansenFor the Rogaland counties: Siri A. MelingGunn Berit Gjerde, Morten Ørsal Johansen and Siri A. Meling shall be elected to the Lamentations for the time they meet for the representatives of Leif Helge Kongshaug, Thore A. Nistad and Finn Martin Vallersnes respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e86	Gunn Berit Gjerde, Morten Ørsal Johansen and Siri A. Meling are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e100	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2787]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e120	I have on behalf of the Left-wing Initiative for this Interpellation. The background is the Health Inspectorate’s report and long-term contact with professionals, drug addicts and their relatives. Our goal is to get a cross-political lift for a diverse group of people who are falling through the auxiliaries. Many of us, like politicians, have known us as powerless against drug addicts who are on the run over and over again. The overall objective of the drug reform was that drug users with complex problems should receive more holistic services and that treatment outcomes should be improved. The question is, have they got it? A little while ago, we could read about the fact that the director of LAR in Health Nord went off in protest. Health Nord itself has stated that they have too poor treatment for heroin users who want to get away from their drug addiction. Last December, the Ministry of Health and Health sent out a press release notifying them of an escalating plan for the care of drug users. We're still waiting for that escalating plan. Health surveillance points out that services still face major challenges when it comes to ensuring adequate multidisciplinary competence to assess the rights of drug users to treatment in a defensive way. Around the state, it is emphasised that there is a lack of medical competence that can make a proper diagnosis. This is very important, as most drug addicts have multiple diagnoses. Critical aspects relating to privacy and the retention and keeping of records have also been identified. This is also important to ensure proper treatment and to ensure that it is adapted to the individual person. There are also major gaps in relation to individual levels. In general, there is a need for much more interdisciplinary interaction between levels. Director Lars E. Hanssen of the State Health Authority stated to the Health Authority that a very important element of each multi-disciplinary specialised service is to ensure that we learn from our own experience and from events that have not been planned. When drug users break off treatment without this being planned, little work is done to register and learn from this type of event. This shows that the service providers do not have the internal control they are required by law, and therefore they lose important opportunities to continue to improve their own work. Many people can't deal with everyday life without rushing. On the left, drug policy is that we should fight against drug abuse, not those who are drug addicts. Those who have made contact with us point out several things: there is too little money – almost obviously – we have too few professionals, we have too few treatment places and too poor interaction between levels and levels. There have been many reforms in this area, and it could be tempting to call for one. But the Left is not a symbolist. We have just had a new reform. Now we need to look at what can actually be done better in practice. Everyone involved in this area knows that there are complex issues we are facing. All the signs that things are going a little bit better, we're going to take care of them. There are also positive moves. There are many areas where there is a need to change and improve the treatment of drug users. We'll need enough professionals. We need unbureaucratic management of the individual, good interaction between the levels of drug users and better training. The Health Inspectorate pointed out in his report that it is not enough to provide good professional follow-up. Drug users are under-represented in their health needs. There are too few ligaments in the system. Many have also pointed out that there is a lack of certainty about how to deal with drug addicts. Today, it may seem that there are too sharp shots between health professionals and the municipal health service. This is particularly true in Oslo. Cities are often not notified when a drug user cracks or stops treatment. Interactions need to be improved here. A personal plan must be implemented in a completely different way. Too often we hear about rigid plans after a common template, because the competence of the case handlers is far too poor. Many case handlers have too much to do, and penetration is high at the lowest level in the system. This is a heavy group to work with, and multidisciplinary teams are needed. It is nice that the leaders are sent on a course, but it is not very helpful if they are to make personal follow-up plans, corks have time or enough competence to make good enough decisions. I must say that I was initially skeptical considering that heavy drug addicts were going to attend outpatient treatment at noon. 10 a certain day in three weeks. For people who literally speak have problems holding on to their legs, this seems insurmountable. But there are many good examples of how it actually works. When a reminder is sent to a text message, or when someone is thinking of joining an outpatient clinic, it will be easier to make appointments and to get treatment in a tough everyday life. A lot of people treat you creatively. We've heard of lizards that lubricate to drug addicts to meet their basic needs, while drug addicts meet on an hourly basis. Some teams also spend more time calling up responsible groups, where relatives, professional staff and the permanent staff are participants. A good individual plan will depend on one focusing on the individual’s own resources. No matter what a life situation you are in, all of you have powers and can be with and create a better or more stable existence. In an individual level, one must not just focus on the problems. It is important that institutions are open and that one is not moralising. Drug users are very different and require individual solutions. It must be allowed to crack without falling back into line again. The basic thing in all situations where people are to seek help and get help is that they need help to hold on to their dignity. At the same time, it is human enemy not to meet expectations of being able to close. The one who doesn't meet any expectations is actually written off and invisible by the big community. So over to a slightly different problem. What are the measurement criteria for good care? For the left, it's important to stress that not only can you measure the quality of people becoming restless. A better state of health and a better quality of life at the stage of rehabilitation that one is at is important in its care. Left thinks it's a good idea to try to make the best use of the different cultures and the different environments where a job is to get people out of drug addiction. All LAR patients must be followed up with organised social and rehabilitation provision. Methadone and Subutex do not replace lost education, loss of self-respect and absence of social networks. Few of these patients will go through a treatment without interruption, with no setbacks and no cracks. It is important to consider such deviations from the treatment as an expression of complexity and to be preventative of the deviations that will occur. The processing network therefore needs to be much more flexible. One must increase the height of the deviations and reintroduce the drug user after the deviation. In order to close one, the treatment device often needs to be ‘jumped’ after the patient. The key is that the treatment system needs to adapt to the patient/drug addict and the particular characteristics of his/her suffering, not to the contrary. Flexibility is an important keyword. The auxiliary device must show that the door is open, even if the patient initially may not want to enter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e164	Like the representative Ludvigsen, I am concerned that this patient group will receive that treatment and follow-up according to the law. It is therefore positive that the interpellant addresses questions about the provision of services to drug addicts, which are among the weakest groups in our society. As mentioned above, in 2006, the State Health Authority carried out a nationwide supervision of multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts in the specialist health service. The Health Authority, as the representative Ludvigsen points out, has summarised the findings in its annual supervisory notice. According to the supervisory notice, a total of 22 establishments were supervised. By 18 of these, there were 32 deviations, and 22 comments were made. These inspections were carried out to assess whether the establishments were properly operated, as required by law. I am not satisfied that there were deviations or comments at 80 p.m. by the supervised establishments. The main points of the country-wide supervision can be summarised as follows: breach of the 30-day time limit for the assessment of the right to the necessary health-care professional competence in both assessment, investigation and treatment not sufficient access to specialist competence — in particular, medical care did not often apply to adequate record-keeping of medical products in accordance with the legislation; Health surveillance has provided further information on these findings and on the status of follow-up of non-conformities. By the end of March, the deviations in 12 establishments were corrected. This is a work that is ongoing, and which we follow very closely. This shows that businesses take the discrepancies seriously — it should only be lacking — and try to comply with the laws and regulations. Health surveillance has confirmed that the health surveillance of each State will follow-up until all findings are corrected. In Stortinget's treatment of Rusreform II, Ot.prp. No 54 for 2002–03, it was recognised that, at regional health establishments, the State would take over the entire county responsibility for the treatment of drug addicts from 2004. At the same time, it was also agreed that the drug reform should be evaluated after three years and that this evaluation should be presented to the Stortinget. This evaluation has now been carried out. I will come back to Stortinget with a detailed explanation of how we want to follow up the evaluation. It may be useful for this debate to present the main findings of this evaluation: While there has been a significant increase in cooperation and interaction between drug addicts in specialist health services, there is still a need to strengthen cooperation on better and more complex and coordinated services. This applies between specialist health services and municipal services and to voluntary and non-profit-making measures against drug addicts. Drug addicts who are referred to specialist health services shall, as you know, receive within 30 days an assessment of their entitlement to the necessary health care. Where such a right is granted, an individual time limit shall be set within which the processing is to be put into operation at the latest. There are still too long waiting times for some patients. Drug addicts have received patients’ rights in the same way as other patients, but they are not always followed up in practice. The evaluation is very clear.It is also clear that, after the specialist healthcare service was given responsibility for the treatment of drug addicts, better conditions should facilitate interaction between multi-disciplinary specialised treatment and the other specialised health services. This is particularly the case for mental health protection, because a significant proportion of drug addicts suffer from, in part, extensive mental disorders alongside their drug dependence, and many patients in the psychiatric community have, in part, major drug problems. If one looks at the supervisory message and the evaluation as a whole, there is a great deal of convergence between the deviations and observations pointed out by the Health Authority and the weaknesses of the services identified by this evaluation. The responsibility for the treatment of drug addicts has been separated from the specialist health service for many years. Prior to the introduction of the drug reform, the responsibility for the treatment of drug addicts was enshrined in the social services law. For this reason, treatment provision has also been based mainly on social and educational methods and theories. Single surveys and evaluations show that many drug addicts have received good help and follow-up. Introducing the drug reform, two different trade traditions and cultures were linked and subject to the same health legislation. It is said that it has been a demanding task, but it has led to several good results. However, I very much agree with the representative Ludvigsen that much remains before we can say that the treatment provision for drug addicts is the way we want them to be. We've got confirmations of that, and we still have a lot to do. That is why I have made a number of demands in this year's mission document to regional health enterprises: The rate of growth in mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts must be stronger than in somatic settings.The duration of multidisciplinary specialised treatment should be reduced.The waiting time for detoxification should be reduced.Health enterprises should ensure that young people of parents with mental or drug dependence are provided with the necessary assistance and follow-up.Health enterprises should implement cooperation measures between specialist health services, community services and child protection for pregnant drug addicts in LARs and other multidisciplinary specialised treatment.All drug addicts referred to in multidisciplinary specialised treatment should also be assessed in view of the needs of other services.Health enterprises should strengthen the health professional competence in multidisciplinary specialised treatment.Data should be reported to Norwegian patient registers so that we can better monitor developments in services.We should strengthen research.The clinical ethics committees should also work on issues related to multidisciplinary specialised treatment of drug addicts. In addition to these specific demands on the drug field, I have made general demands in the mission paper that specialist health services be strengthened. As far as research is concerned, I have asked for the strengthening of areas in which research is weak, and in particular the multi-disciplinary specialised treatment. I would also like to remind you that this government has strengthened the drugs field in the state budget, both through the supplementary proposal for 2006 and for the current year. In sum, with decisions in Stortinget, we have strengthened the drug field directly by 210 million. kr. It is money that has gone to more treatment sites, voluntary work, rehabilitation and prevention. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we promised, as we know, to introduce a special waiting guarantee for children and young people under 23 years of age with mental and/or drug problems. It has to be a treatment guarantee, and a proposition on this we'll be joining in a very short time. It will also include a legal ‘cleaning’ of some issues that have been unclear since the introduction of the drug reform. In order to ensure drug-dependent full patient rights and prevent accidental discrimination, which is also happening, I will also make some clarifications and proposals for amendments to the Patient Rights Act. I believe that there is a general problem in the specialist healthcare system that there are too many variations between regional health companies and within each regional healthcare company, both in terms of the proportion of patients referred to and in terms of patients entitled to the necessary health care. We also find such variations within the specialised treatment. The Social and Health Directorate is coming very soon with a supervisor in this area, so we get a better basis for doing the job at all levels. In a short time, I want to present an escalating plan for the drug field, as we have also promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. This will include both prevention, treatment and follow-up. I think it's important that we do what we can to prevent young people and others from starting drugs. Whenever someone does, they have to be treated quickly. It is also very important that they are followed up when they have completed the treatment offer, because it is easy to have relapses if there is no one there when you need it, after you have been in for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e259	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a good deal, and I note that the Council of State and I have a reality that is quite similar. I also noticed that she said that the escalation plan that is announced will soon come. Then I expect that it will happen within a month. What the supervisory report from the Health Authority also showed, and for which the Council of State did well, is that there are many deviations. That's okay. We're not going to worry about it that much. But the point is that we have to learn from deviations, and then it has to lead to action. I think that a good method here to get more professionals, especially on the medical side, is to go in for – and I suggest it – that services within the russorga should be counted, so-called meritorious, in relation to gaining specialist competence. That's what I think I'm going to have a positive effect on the recruiting, on getting more people. At the same time, we have to make the care agency more professionally interesting, so that there are more people who are interested in the subject. It is true that this profession has a low status, not least among laymen, and this makes the lack of professional personnel a big one. Another thing is that we know that the problem for someone, especially in Oslo and in other big cities, is that the drug addict doesn't get his hands on it. One possibility is to provide regular medical services as part of the team at outpatient clinics, getting it into the multidisciplinary team in one way or another. We have also noted that the Patient Rights Act is something that this big business has stated that one should keep. It is a fine law, but he has argued that people are able to complain about decisions and to take the initiative themselves. We know that many drug addicts are not in the situation that they are able to do it, so I think we need to establish an aid system that takes care of these people's rights. Another factor is that those who receive LAR treatment need to be provided with a proper housing and rehabilitation facility after treatment. We use hundreds of thousands of dollars, maybe, to stop at a drug institution, but if the drug addict is sent back to miserable housing, and he has an extremely bad economy, there's little sense in this. I don't have time to go into it any more, but one more little point: we need to secure the economy, and as everyone knows, the Left has launched this with a city pay, and it could be one method. In the end, I would like to encourage cross-political cooperation in Russorga, with the hope that we can get a proper lift for everyone who wears.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e274	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative Ludvigsen that it is absolutely essential that a teacher of the deviations that have been pointed out. And it's not good that there have been as many deviations as what has been documented by the Health Inspectorate's reports, and through the evaluation that has been made. So I also believe that Ludvigsen had a point when he talked about the status. It's a little bit longer canvas to bleach, but we also have to take it seriously. The question of individual levels applies here, as in many other areas, and unfortunately we see too many examples that it does not work in practice. I want to take the initiative to try to get to a simpler system of individual planes. I hear people say that they almost can't stand to sit down with it, because it's too extensive. There's too many forms, there's too many things to fill in, and then it doesn't happen. We have to do something about that. I think we need to simplify the whole system of individual planes. It's very important. Secondly, I believe that what I said at the bottom of my main post, and which also Ludvigsen was a little busy, is absolutely crucial. Let me use an example from South Africa, as I heard this week. A person who had major drug problems had been so fortunate and had been in for treatment. He had been there for two months, then came back to himself, didn't have such a very large family around him, but had friends who came to visit and said, "Who is it now to follow you up?" He was going to have a person follow-up, but he would not receive a reply before two to three months. Of course, not many days went by before he again had problems. So it's so vital that we do something to get a system, as Ludvigsen also points out, that when people have been in a treatment system, there's someone there that fits all the time, or else you can't get out of it. It's wrong for them. There is also a wrong use of society's resources. We will also take that into account. It's also in what was said here when it comes to follow-up. When I was visiting the Tyreli collective here in Oslo a short time ago and met some of the guys there, it was an important message. It was that they were mentally ill because they were inside the system and got treatment, but they had to cut contact with many friends, some with family as well. They said to me, we're so nervous about what happens when we get back to our municipality, because we have no meeting places, we have no one to go to, and it's very easy to fall out again. – So: post-protection, post-protection, post-protection! When it comes to having a contact person, it's very important, and of course it's also that people get there quickly when they need treatment. I am very pleased that we have this debate now. I hope and believe there will be many good recordings, which we'll take with us now, in the final question of the Roadmap of the drug field. And once again, the treatment guarantee is right around the corner when it comes to those under 23 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e291	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up this topic. This is a theme that has been regularly discussed in Stortinget. I have to say that over the almost ten years that I've been working on it, I've seen both a very positive development related to commitment and that these themes unfortunately still appear because we haven't managed to solve many of the issues. I think most of us have seen in practice what drug abuse can do to a human being. I want to use an example – a person – that I have been working with for almost two years now, a heavy heroin addict that the mother had found several times with overdose. As a result of learning to live with this, she was given life in her son again several times. Then he comes to detoxification, and is told that it is so and so long wait. The family lives under stress: does our boy survive or does he not survive in this waiting period? He comes in to detoxification, gets a detoxification, as you call it. He was told that when he finished it, he could expect a waiting time of approx. two months and so few to come to treatment. This is called – in popular language – madness. This shows that the issues related to this group of people have not been understood. So that's what happens next. He comes within the LAR system and begins with medically assisted rehabilitation. The problem is this: the person is returned to the municipality and is given a social dwelling. Besides, nothing happens. Then we all know what's going on, for drug-assisted rehabilitation only applies to opiates. This means that you start using other substances, such as: cannabis, amphetamines and methamphetamine, and then it loses the offer, which is, of course, to be made after giving positive tests. This is just to illustrate one single thing. There's a lot of these things out there. It also shows how important it is, what the Council of State had to do with after-care and follow-up, everything that has to do with thinking about the whole treatment chain and not just separate issues such as detoxification, treatment or housing. You have to think about the whole chain and see the human being behind the drug addiction, not just the drug abuse. I also think it is quite obvious that there are major shortcomings here, especially with regard to what has to do with the status of professions, linked to specialising in the field of drugs. I also think it's important to take into account that you have to have a variation in the offers that is, because we as people are very different. We react in different ways, take things to us in different ways and learn differently. Furthermore, I think it is also quite obvious that at least a review of an authorisation system should be considered for institutions to work on drug treatment. It's important that we get a lot of research in this area too, so that at least part of this can be research-based. Part of it isn't that. Many have good results. The problem is that we don't know enough about how it goes over time. Let's do a little bit too short a perspective. I think we have to look over time how things are done, and then think about the treatment chain as a whole. And I think the second-largest problem we're facing is what we do when we're done with the treatment itself: how do you get the social network in place? How do you get things back in place after the family is largely torn apart, the economic foundation for him is completely broken, and you've worked up a lot of debt. You have to go back. One can only imagine what happens to a drug addict who has accumulated debt over time, for example. in a drug-related environment. It's not exactly a good thing to get out of the dorm, so to meet the same team that is going to have their money back. Because there are people we're talking about, I hope we're still going to focus a lot on this. We need to see the people behind the drug abuse, not just the drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e310	I will give tribute to the representative Ludvigsen to raise this debate. Although there has been a clear political objective to strengthen the supply of drug addicts and mentally ill, the reality has been that somatic health services have increased significantly in the last ten years. The Health Inspectorate’s report, as explained by Ludvigsen and the Council of State, shows that there are major gaps in treatment provision, rigid printing practices, the absence of medical services, lack of internal control and, not least, the involvement of the Council of State, aftercare, which is so crucial. As the Council of State also pointed out, it is not good enough. It's far from good enough. Russ reform was a step in the right direction, because drug addicts became formally and legally equal to other patients. The right has been a driver of stronger patient rights and has fought for treatment within a professionally sound time frame and the right to free choice of treatment site. However, we see that patient rights are more formal than reality for many patients, especially those who are addicted to drugs. If patient rights are to become a reality, there is a need primarily for a strong upgrade of the offer. That's how the Department of Drug Addiction has formulated it – «money or life». We need more places and better quality of supply. Former Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen was the first to instruct regional health firms that the growth in drug treatment and mental health protection should be stronger than in somatic care. The co-operation administration began a escalation for the drug field, with an increase in appropriations of 600 million in total. kr. The number of places in the LAR doubled, we extended the lowthreshold provision from 8 to 42 municipalities and introduced a separate grant for municipal services. But we're the first to recognize that this was just a beginning. I agree with the representative, Mr Ludvigsen, that there is a need for a cross-political lifting. The right will have a binding economic escalation plan for the drug field with earmarked funds for healthcare businesses and municipalities. The escalation plan must include treatment provision, care and prevention measures. We've been waiting impatiently for this plan from the Government, but we now understand that it's similar around the corner. That's good, because this is urgent. It was also proposed to the right last year to increase the funding for drug treatment by 50 million. kr, as an immediate measure, and I am pleased that the Government is now going in for the same thing. In addition, the right has provided a national contribution to rehabilitation, where drug addicts must also be given priority. But an escalating plan is not enough. We are still receiving alarming reports of deficiencies in treatment and care provision. Last year, the trade union council in the drugs field mobilised organisations and some policymakers to stop the proposed guidelines for drug treatment, which would have been – as we perceived – ten years ago. Fortunately, the guidelines were not formally implemented, but there is much evidence that health businesses have introduced a practice that punishes and condemns the most disadvantaged. Those who have repeated treatment attempts behind them are not considered to benefit from e.g.: the detoxification offer. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on whether this leads to correctness. Right thinks that everyone deserves a new chance, and that everyone should have the opportunity to succeed in creating a better life. Drug addicts shall not be penalised for not having succeeded in previous attempts to become drug free. They're going to have a chance over and over again. We've seen a lot of examples that drug addicts who have almost been reported have actually done it in third or fourth attempts. As I said, I am concerned about the guidelines for drug treatment in healthcare companies. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State to explain the status of further work on the guidelines for drug treatment in healthcare establishments, whether it will be part of this plan, or whether it is a matter of particular concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e329	The Christian People's Party, like many others, has been waiting for the Government to present an escalating plan for the drug field. It was alerted six months ago. Drug users are among those who had taken rapid action. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the Council of State now in this room confirms that that plan is on its way. We have great expectations of him, and we also hope that there are clear commitments when it comes to both action and money. As the representative of the service provider Ludvigsen has focused on: There are major challenges and no need for treatment for drug addicts. Russ reform would provide drug users with complex problems better and more co-ordinated services. The treatment would also be better. The evaluation of the drug reform just before Christmas showed that much remains to be done. Among other things, the role of private nonprofit institutions is unclear. There is a loss of important competence when these institutions have to close because they do not have agreements to finance the treatment provided, while drug users are waiting for treatment. The Christian People's Party expects that the role of private non-profit institutions will be clarified in the context of the escalation plan for the drug field, and that the Council of State will ensure these institutions and the competences they hold, a role in the provision of care. This was also debated in this Chamber in an interview by the Christian People's Party before Christmas. What is as important as a good drug supply is a good aftercare, as the Council of State stressed, having a place to live, a firm activity to go to daily, such as studies or jobs, and networking with family, friends and colleagues. Christian People's Party puts this in focus in the treatment of care messages. If this is not the case after the treatment is finished, there is a great chance that the treatment will be lost. Further efforts must be made to interact between the specialist services, i.e.: those responsible for interdisciplinary drug treatment and the municipalities. Individual plans must be used actively, and provision must be made for the exchange of happiness between all involved. An important aspect of a escalation plan for the drug field is the focus on the prevention of drug abuse. Yesterday, in the U.S.A., we read that several young people use cocaine, especially as a party baptism. In 2006, the police made record seizures of cocaine, cannabis resin and amphetamines. There is reason to believe that the use is larger than ever. This is alarming, and the Christian People's Party expects concrete action as soon as possible, to do something about this. In particular, it must focus on the free provision of leisure time for young people and on holding campaigns. A report from IRIS recently shows that early help to children and their families can prevent both drug problems and mental and social problems. Early efforts aimed at children both in kindergarten and in elementary school, and at their families, are therefore important. Therefore, it is also good for the Council of State to notify measures to remedy this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e342	Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland said something like everything is related to everything. I think that point of view at least applies in this area, because this issue of drug problems is an incredibly complicated matter, and everything is related to everything. The representative Hareide just mentioned this with prevention work, and how we manage to get young people at an early age to get habits that lead to their not becoming drug addicts later in life. It is about being willing to use resources in school and in youth provision, which leads to both awareness-raising work, but also some offers, so that young people who can easily fall into bad environments — where drugs are part of their daily lives — actually choose a different route. It's probably the most important thing we have to do to prevent us from getting into a lot of drug problems in the future. We have to start with those who today are from ten years up. It means a commitment to school and a commitment to youth services. We know that prevention work is far more profitable than repairing. Professor Peter F. Hjort in Tromsø has said that it is fifty times as profitable to bet on preventive health work as on repairers. I can't say that it's fifty times as profitable, but it has to be many times as profitable to bet on prevention. That's why I think that's where we have to put a significant part of the work. But regardless of the social background, no matter where in the country you come from, we know that there are a lot of people today who are struggling with major drug problems. I have been working for many years at a work office and know what drug problems lead to personal tragedies and major family problems when one of the carers is so stressed that they can't work. It leads to domestic violence, it leads to problems with paying the bills, and it infects the whole family. Therefore, there is no doubt that even more work is needed to find different treatment options for those in such a situation. When you're going to bet on treatment, we in SV think that there's one thing that's absolutely fundamental, and that's that we have to have some common benefits in place, so that people are included in a common environment if they have problems with drugs, so that they're not placed in special environments, but get to share in the common good that many others get to share in. Of course, we need some special treatment for drug users. We have some examples of this that we have succeeded in Norway, but here it is certainly a lot to pick up in the future. SV has great confidence that the Minister of Health is taking this matter seriously. We know that the government is focusing heavily on both psychiatry, drug care and a combination of these. We therefore look forward to the further work to be done by the Minister of Health, because this is one of the biggest societal problems we have. That's why it's so good that the interpellant picks up this question. We can't discuss this too often in Stortinget, because it's one of our biggest societal problems, on which we must constantly focus, not only on prevention, but also on helping those who have come up with a situation they don't deal with. Finally, I would like to say that this is also about human vision. It is very important that you do not view drug users as someone we put on the side. Drug abusers are something we have to live with in all environments, and it is very important that we include them in our social networks and in the Community systems that exist in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e359	The Russian reform was meant to see the whole human being in all contexts. Let me start with two examples that are about it missing, just as the representative Nesvik was about. The first example is told by the Church's Bymission. It's about a young girl on methadone. She goes to a place in the East to visit her very ill sister. She has to go to the pharmacy to get the drug. The pharmacy can't get hold of LAR that day. She doesn't get the drug. It's Friday. On Monday she returned to LAR and was told that she had to go at the back of the line because she did not keep the agreement. She dies a few days before six months have passed. I'm not going to comment on the example. I'll leave it there because it's obvious. So the second example: the government and everyone does something commendable as important as making sure that inmates get a chance to live a good life by giving them school in prison. In these days, school provision is being stepped down in treatment for those who are entering drug treatment. Two examples: At Hov in Land lies the centre of the state. There is Dokka secondary school – falling from 5 to 1.4 teaching positions. Sollia, close by, gets a step down from 2.5 to 1 teacher's position. Circulars from the school authorities say that in such places the school should only be a part of the therapy. But what is this? We know that both meeting living people, being able to work with what plagues you and at the same time getting rusted up to meet life, are important to these people. It does not have to be – to feed it – that in order to be drug addicts, you have to get in prison to get an education offer! I see this as a system madness. I speak openly to the Council of State, because I perceive that she has also documented an open mind here, and because I think this must be cleaned up. The two examples that I have now described are simply system inconsistency. The Church's Bymition, which described the fate of the young girl, had more examples. This concerns medically assisted rehabilitation, where there are often some hopeless bureaucratic rounds between social services, doing their job, and the LAR system, doing their job. But there's one loser, and it's the one that needs help. As the representative Ludvigsen said, if you go to the slimmer, you can crack five times, but if you crack like the rush, you get counted out, just like a boxer that takes the count of ten. We know, for example. through successful rehabilitation, that people who make an agreement to be reclaimed voluntarily can be picked up. And we know through the many circumstances of life that a crisis is usually a good starting point for learning something more. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to say something about what I think needs to be done in order to achieve a cross-party impact on the treatment of those who want to quit drug abuse. First of all, what everyone's been up to is that there must be enough resources. Of course, it becomes clear that once the entire treatment system has been brought into the specialist healthcare system, there must be enough professionals present, in addition to those who were there before. For example, in outpatient clinics and elsewhere, there must be enough people. Some of those who have spoken very clearly about this are among other things. The Norwegian Medical Association, which has stated clearly what is missing. And then more of us -- I also now -- have given examples of something that makes the system almost more important than humans. It's about as bad as it can be, because there's something life has taught me to deal with people who are disabled, it's that they can take a thank-you, but you really have to be willing to go with them. Then you have to do it, then! In fact, good professional work is about going with people. It is not about shutting down behind the circular and formal forms. If you get tired of it, good employers will make sure that wise professionals get a breathing exercise sometimes. It's a smart staff policy. But it must not be the case that those who labor become losers – even if they like – because the system becomes too rigid. As has been stressed by several, and it cannot be said enough: wise people will be able to cooperate relaxedly with municipal services, state services such as healthcare, government services such as education, etc. But then you have to make sure that there are enough such wise losers with experience and who dare to include the experience in the specialist health service we have. I hope the Council of State will take these points with her when she comes back with what she has signaled she will do. This is about dignity, but it's also about hope for a better life for the people we're talking about here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e378	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for raising an important question, a question that politically grows bigger and bigger in our society. I would also like to thank the Council of State for its response to what the interpellant is asking for. Noise problems are a major social problem. Individuals fall out of schools, fall out of work, they come out into a criminal society, into a criminal environment, and they go into prison. They will need varied health services, not just for one day, but for several years. But first and foremost, this gives rise to personal tragedies in which individuals lose contact with family, lose contact with comrades, colleagues and friends, and at the same time feel that they are being excluded from a social network and a community. That's why I think it's important, as pointed out, to have greater transparency about this with drug problems. We all know someone, either in the family, in close proximity to each other or in the workplace, who has had to deal with these problems. However, this problem with drug problems has been a concern to address, even if you, as a trustee of businesses, became acquainted with colleagues at work as ill. The question is, what can we do to help? This issue has always been difficult. Each of us has a responsibility to our comrade, our neighbor, our colleague and our family member by discussing this and raising the question: is there something we can help with and help with regarding the troubles we are obviously seeing? It's a little bit about raising awareness. I think awareness has to happen through preventive work, as was said here, and through school. It's very important. MOT, which is a very important organization, has to take responsibility and say no to addiction and various stimuli at a young age. This is about care and inclusion. I have experienced myself that when I have had comrades who have had problems with alcohol, I don't let them get so close to me anymore. You feel a little uncomfortable, instead of perhaps standing up and taking responsibility, looking out and contributing to good contact. This with drug problems seems to me to have a much clearer face – at least I see it myself, after I came to Oslo. Almost every day I meet at Karl Johan not only one, but a dozen people standing along the street, who really have problems. They remind us every day that individuals are struggling, and that they are hurting, that families are hurting and thinking about theirs lying along the street, not only here in Oslo, but also elsewhere. I think it's important to expand the treatment system. There is no fasitis at which type of treatment is good. Individuals must be motivated. It's family that supports, and there are colleagues who support it. It is a responsibility that must be taken by the municipality, state and state in order for us to find out. I think there must be a lot of different measures, but we need to be better at evaluating the different treatment options we have. We need to see which offers have given the best benefits, not just for society, but the best benefit for those who need a treatment offer, not just one day, but in the long term. Then we can help them back to society in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e392	First, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I know it so that here there are many recordings and many points of view that can probably be used by the Government in the work that is now going on. What we can say is that we need system solutions, but as the last speaker, and also others, are in, is the individual we're talking about, so that must be individual solutions. I thought Asphjell got this very clear that individual plan must be in focus. It's the individual, the person we're talking about. At the same time, of course, we must have some structures. I'm very much in agreement with what has been said here, that of course everything is related to everything, and that we have to create grips and have prevention. But we also need a good treatment. In other words, these people that we are talking about today are entitled to treatment. They have a right to it under the patient law. We don't have to do the other pieces now, although they are of course important. After-shave protection is of course important. One can only point out that when the Health Inspectorate was to initiate supervision within specialised care, they were encouraged that they should also supervise the municipal service equipment. Of course, they saw that this was related, but they concluded that it would be too extensive. We only see how complex it is when a real system organ like the State Health Authority doesn't dare to open over this big field. Here's the huge challenges. I believe and hope that this debate will lead to – and I understand that all parties in this room are basically a few, and have a strong desire – that the addicts in this area should receive a better quality of treatment – of course, I am talking about the whole chain, not least within the specialised treatment provision. But good will is not enough, as we know. We need to have more measures, and we need to find out what kind of measures. And measures without money are rarely a good mix.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e403	I take with me the input from this debate, and I think there were a lot of good suggestions. This is, as others have said, inter alia: The representative, Nesvik, is a demanding area – demanding because there are different people who become drug addicts, as all of us are different. That means we need different offers. Something that works on someone, it's not likely to work on others. That's why we have to have the whole flora of offers, that's ideal, private, voluntary, public – all of them. But we have to make sure that there is quality in the offers we offer, and we have to make sure that there are offers that actually work. It also means, as several speakers have said, that you have to evaluate and see if it actually works. So both the representatives Nesvik, Dørum and others have been involved in single examples, individually tragic stories. Many of us also have many other examples and stories. We must take that very seriously. All the examples about people – those around them, the families and the network – who have bad days require us, as politicians, to take it very seriously, and to do something about it in practice. It shows that there is a need to do something. To the representative, Sjøli and the question of guidelines: it is also right around the corner. We do not intend to include it in the escalation plan, but we will bring it as a separate matter. We'll get back to that, too. As for the representative Hareide, I agreed with everything that was said, so to speak. I just want to stress how important the voluntary, ideal offer is within this care. But it's a small but, because we also have to be absolutely sure that there's good quality and good control of what means we're using. Unfortunately, we have had an example recently, which is a separate matter in itself, which is now being followed up in different ways. We also come from the government side to have a little closer control to check that all the money actually goes to what we have decided they should go to. This applies in general. That doesn't mean that it's not an unusually good job done by the volunteer, which we also need in the future. Then to the representative Ryan. I agree with almost everything that has been said from the pulpit – by all – but what this representative says about humanity and dignity is important. When people are in the most critical situations, it is important that we remember and take their dignity and respect very seriously. The representative of Dørum addressed this with school offerings. This is a very important matter. This week, the Ministry of Health and Welfare met with the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion on the very school offer to drug addicts who are on a daily basis. After all, the purpose is for you to have a better offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e420	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e434	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one hour and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e445	Combating high sick leave is a goal for everyone in this room. It's good for society, and it's good for the individual, who instead of being sick and sick can go to work and be healthy and active. However, the way we organise and finance measures to get sick people back to work is highly distributive. Here we're more disagreeable. The opposition's proposal is rejected by the majority with two main reasons. One is about a significant principle in our tax system: that all labour income should be treated equally. It implies that all income is included, including goods which do not come in the form of pure wages, when calculating the tax. If the employer covers the costs incurred by the employee for the treatment of illness, it is considered to be part of the income of employment, in kind. Therefore, this should be taxed in the usual way. Deviations from this principle lead to the eroding and complexity of the tax system. With such justification, it was also cleared in all the deductions made by the Bondevik II government. It is therefore appropriate to exercise caution in introducing new tax exemptions. The second reason is that we have adopted a much more comprehensive system, which includes all, and which does not have negative effects on taxation or distribution policy. As everyone here knows, the size has granted 604 million. to a scheme for the grant of health and rehabilitation services in order to speed up the return of sick people to work. This is part of an agreement with the social partners. 380 million of this goes to health businesses. Dr. 20 million, which the tax exemption scheme costs the state, is going to be small in proportion. The grant scheme has a wide range of actions and services. Both hospital services, health-oriented rehabilitation services and labour training, to mention something, are part of the scheme aimed at being as unbureaucratic and targeted as possible. We have already seen the first item of happiness printed in a newspaper: the newspaper could tell on Wednesday 25 April about Tone Flöjsand from Nordland, who was operating on express flights, and as if four weeks were back at work as a home assistant. Then set the option, and searched. Two weeks later she was called into surgery at the hospital in Kristiansund. Normally it takes three months to wait for an investigation. She'll be back at work in four weeks. I'm excited about the continuation. I hope for more things of joy, and hope this will work so monstrous. Whether it is to comfort those who have private hospitals loved: they are also part of the scheme. The most important thing is to treat people as quickly as possible, in private or public terms. In other words, the government parties have the same objective as the opposition, to reduce sick leave by means of faster treatment, but we are thus betting far more on this than a tax exemption scheme would mean – this in a way that benefits all workers, not only those who have a willing and imaginable employer. In addition to what I have already mentioned, a proposal to exempt employers from treatment costs has negative aspects in relation to distribution. As a rule, the most resource-intensive workers, who often have high wages, good bonus schemes and fine treats from before, are credited when it comes to the employer deciding who should receive such health care — by being employed in an enterprise. In addition, if the State provides tax exemptions for the payment of health care by the employer, the unfairness will be reinforced against other workers who do not receive this benefit from the employer. Employees with a weak position in the labour market, or employees in companies with a weak economy, do not get access to this benefit, which I consider to be a significant weakness with such a tax exemption scheme. In addition, studies have shown that benefits in kind and benefits in kind are very different among the population. About three-quarters of those who received treatment costs and treatment insurance from the employer in 2003 were in the top tax position. Providing everyone with the best possible access to health and rehabilitation services is, of course, an overall objective of health policy. You have to be careful about prioritizing certain groups in front of others. Nevertheless, through such a large-scale effort as has now been undertaken by the Government, it is appropriate to ensure prompt treatment for the sick. It is established doctors or health care professionals who have to assess the reference to the measures covered by this health care scheme and they refer directly to the specialist healthcare service. I experience such a scheme as better than having a limited selection of employers select those to receive private health care. An additional element to take into account is that enterprises participating in an inclusive working life, i.e. IA companies, should be given priority, primarily through the information work on the scheme. A good service to IA companies will in itself make it more attractive to be an IA company and thus help to strengthen the work of reducing sick leave. Under the previous government, such a tax-exempt scheme existed for the costs of treatment paid by employers. In contrast to what is claimed in the minority comments, there is no evidence that this scheme ‘functioned as intended’. Yes, the number of private health insurances in collective schemes increased – I don't doubt for a moment on the figures of the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation – but the main thing is whether the tax exemption has reduced sick leave. That is why I am not familiar with any documentation. Besides, if it turned out that this had an effect, it would be marginal. Under the previous government, no effect was taken into account in the budgeting of sick pay, either when the scheme was introduced or when it was terminated. The tax exemption scheme cost more than 20 million. kr. The benefit scheme for sick persons, which has just been introduced, is more than 600 million. kr. When it takes effect, it's estimated to give only 1 pst. lower sick leave. Therefore, such a tax exemption as the opposition proposes does not have the potential to become a particularly significant instrument for reducing sick leave. The social partners share the view that tax exemptions are a good tool for reducing sick leave. In the 2005 election campaign, LO made it clear that they wanted the scheme removed. The NHO and FNH, the main financial industry organisation, wanted it reintroduced. In any case, this is not a requirement that has been asserted with the strength of the cooperation of the social partners with the Government in the follow-up to the report of the Sick leave Committee. It has been mentioned, but no significant emphasis has been placed on it. In summary, the government parties reject the proposal because it violates the principle of equal pay and benefits in kind. We believe that it is far better to invest in a system in which all employees can participate. In addition, we believe that the tax exemption has distributional aspects that are unfortunate. Here, too, the slogan must be: ‘All shall be included.’ The rapid treatment of sick people is achieved in a better way and with a stronger social profile with the proposal for the purchase of health and rehabilitation services, which I have repeatedly referred to in my article. The Government parties will therefore not vote in favour of Document No. 8:26.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e482	I think it is a bit eye-catching that the government party now defines health costs as a treat, i.e. that paid health costs are defined as a treat. It's very unfortunate, and it also discriminates against the companies that are so large that they can pay both doctors, nurses and physiotherapists, as we do, for example. on Stortinget. My question to the representative Agdestein is whether this too is going to be a good thing. If a person works in an enterprise where a doctor, a nurse and a physiotherapist are assigned, and one benefits from these services, for example. physical therapist to avoid damage to the load due to the PC, neck injuries, etc., should it be defined as a benefit that would result in an increase in tax on this service?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e489	We're not going to think of that as a treat. There are differences between measures of a general nature, in order to reduce sick leave, which applies to all employees of an enterprise, and where one with measurable results can show that a worker is active in reducing sick leave, and to provide private health services to specific, selected persons working in specific, selected enterprises. There's a big difference in principle, and that's why we're not going to normally regard occupational health as a benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e494	The representative Agdestein's fundamental arguments and dogmatic arguments are not in line with reality, for it is that rich and prosperous businesses can afford to hire doctors and physiotherapists, while small, and not quite as wealthy enterprises do not have that opportunity. I'm glad the government has opened up to spend $600 million. kr to buy people out of the health queue and to buy services in private hospitals, but why then this violent argument in principle against the fact that this can also apply in the case of health costs paid by employers? I know it's because it has something to do with taxes. But this isn't a tax haven. It is a question of avoiding a criminal tax, because the reality is that for an employee it will pay to be sick – it will pay to say to the employer: Do not buy treatment for me, because then I have to pay taxes on it. Does the representative think it is right to receive a criminal tax if the employer pays the costs of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e503	I believe it is right that when an employee receives an additional benefit from his employer that the others do not receive, it should be included in the employee's salary. I also distance myself from what Sanner's representative says that doctors and physiotherapists in general are something we're looking for – that we're looking at this as a so-called treat, or something that we're going to prevent people from getting access to. We don't mean that. But we're talking in this case about individual services that individuals who are employed get access to, and that other employees don't get. It's unfair, it doesn't include everyone. Therefore, we oppose the granting of tax subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e508	When the representative Agdestein mentioned the new slogan «All shall join», he recalled something he learned to sing at Sunday school. But I expect that it has not been the source of inspiration for the Workers' Party's new slogans. But on the specific matter. I understand that it is better for distributional reasons that everyone is left behind than that some people move forward because the employer, for example. in a small enterprise, a key employee actually receives medical treatment. It is a principle that the Workers' Party has broken earlier, namely in the autumn, by buying out workers through operations in both private and public hospitals. You wouldn't do that before because it went against those who didn't have work. My question is: will the Workers' Party in this proposal consider whether it is not better to buy out someone, so that they can have a better life than to have everyone treated equally?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e517	I think the question from the representative Syversen would have been more relevant if we had not had the large package of measures of more than 600 million. kr, for now small enterprises can also apply. The worker concerned may go to his permanent hospital or to another clinician and apply for the operation or offer needed to get out of the health queue. With the scheme that was before, it was entirely dependent on the willingness of the employer to do so, that one would happen to work in a company that had an employer who wanted to do so. I believe that it was far more exclusive than the system we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e522	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e526	For the Progress Party, it is important to bring down the health cows. We are concerned that everyone should have the health care they need. Whoever's exercising these health services, we're not so busy, but we're concerned that they should initially be publicly funded. When there are some companies that failed in this well to spend money on their additions in order to get a health supply, it comes simply from the fact that this doesn't work well enough today. So it's not a well-funded public health service for everyone who needs it. What's special, and a little strange, is that the majority want companies to pay employers' fees for these health costs in addition to the health costs they take in order to get back to work more quickly, and more quickly out of the health sector, and they should also be required to pay taxes on health costs. It could be 50 pst, 50 pst. taxes in order to obtain the health care they need. It's because the government is failing, that businesses are spending money on getting their healthier and faster. So today, there is a difference – something that the representative Agdestein tried to get away from – between small companies that buy health services for their additions to get them back to work faster, and large companies that can have doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, like us. has on Stortinget. It is then that if you have a problem with musculoskeletal abrasion or something like that, you can contact the company health service, and you can get advice from the physiotherapist on how to sit and what to do to prevent this development from being negative. What's strange then is that in small businesses that can't afford to pay their own bodies, their own nurses, their own physiotherapists, it's to be seen as a good thing that's going to be taxed hard, while in the case of rich enterprises, who can afford to add this health care staff themselves, there are now entirely different approaches and completely different rules. We think that is a strange discrimination. I cannot see that the representative Agdestein responded well to why such a distinction should be made. We don't think it should be such a distinction, and we think that small businesses must also be allowed to buy health services without this triggering taxes. So here it is that the majority view diagnosis and treatment as a treatability. I would like to quote from the setting: ‘Buying health care for selected employees is a form of in-kind benefit that should be taxed in the same way as other benefits.’ So it's time for the government to think of health services as a treat. I thought we had a society where we aimed that everyone would get the health they needed, and that it wouldn't be defined as a benefit for the individual. We don't view health services as a good thing, and I hope we don't get such a development. We have to take a roof to get the cows down. Then it must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at once. It must be possible to use more public resources to reduce health cows, while providing some help — at least a private enterprise should not be penalised as an incentive to bring down health cows. It must be possible to distinguish between necessary health services, which we do not think are beneficial, and treatment that is not a need for health, for example. face lifting or silicone injection both here and there. Of course, it is a treat if it is paid by an employer. However, the necessary health services as an annexer must be provided in order to do their job cannot be defined as a treat. The fact that we have long hospital cows today is simply wasted with resources, as well as a human burden that cannot be measured in dollars. That is why it is sad that this proposal does not go through in the Stortinget. This would have been a contribution to helping more people get back to work faster. It says no to the majority, and it seems to me that I am sad and sad on behalf of those who are currently in a condition of health, who could have got this help from employers to get back to work, but who may not be able to afford to pay the tax this will impose on them. Finally, I will present the proposal from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e550	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has then promoted the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e555	The Progress Party is constantly asserting that they are pursuing a policy that is in the best interests of ordinary people. In spite of this, the 2007 government budget proposals of the Progress Party show that a person with a million income receives nearly three times as much tax relief as a person with a revenue of NOK 300000. As we are now discussing, it turned out that there were people with the good incomes who made use of the scheme in the past. It is not the great sums we are talking about in this matter that we are now discussing, but nevertheless I allow myself to ask the representative Hagesetter: Why my Advancement Party is it right that people with the high incomes should receive the greatest tax relief in this matter as well as in this matter we are now discussing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e562	First, I want to say that when you give taxes, it's hard to get away from the fact that those who pay a lot of taxes also get significant taxes. The government and the finance minister from SV also discovered that they were going to present their first budget. The point here is that we don't want to give an extra burden to employees who don't get what they are entitled to from the public. For example: receive a treatment offer costing NOK 50000, which means that employers have to pay in addition to this cost an employer’s tax, and employees may be required to pay NOK 25 000 in tax. Obviously, it will put the greatest strain on those with the lowest incomes. Those who have millions of income are unlikely to care so much that they have to pay NOK 25 000 in taxes, but for those with the lowest income, this could be a significant burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e569	I really just have a very brief question, I. If we look at the scheme as it worked before, we know that those who got health insurance were those who were essentially in the top tax position -- in other words, those who belong to that group of employees who earn the most in this country. What we're talking about here, after all, are insurance schemes, essentially – that's also what the minority refers to in the cancellation. It is health insurance they refer to when they say that this works, according to figures from the Main Financial Industry Organisation. My question is very simple: what makes the Progress Party have no concerns about such a distribution – or is it such that Gjermund Hageseter has any concerns about implementing such a negative distribution effect as the tax proposal entails?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e581	What we are primarily afraid of is the long health cows we have today. A waste of resources by the fact that workers, ordinary people, are forced to stay in long-term health queues to get the treatment that the government should actually provide for them. It's because the state and the public player have failed, that there's really a need for private companies to offer this kind of health insurance, so one gets back to work faster. So now if you pay an insurance, the tax on that insurance is going to be the same for one with a high salary that for one with a low salary. This change means that those with low wages simply cannot afford to pay that tax, while those with high wages can afford it. It may well be that this is what is now the cause of the misalignment that we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e593	The representative, Mr Hagesett, gives the impression that the proposal on which the Party of Progress is based is less discriminatory. The government parties have described in the setting that this is the opposite, and that the safe tradition is that health is a public, free responsibility. It must be organised and financed so that it can be maintained. My question is: Why does the Advance Party not agree with the Government that the organisation and funding of the treatment offer should be done so that those in need of help receive it, regardless of their status and position?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e600	We think it's right that everyone should have the health care one needs. Of course, if employers had the choice between adding a public treatment offer and having to pay themselves, they would not use money from their own company. They wouldn't pay for a treatment offer if the public could have done it instead. It says itself. But that's because the state -- the public -- is failing. So you don't get that kind of health service. One has long health cows. That's what makes this show up, that private companies are forced to finance it. So instead of going against this kind of proposal, which will result in very hard taxation of workers who are being offered treatment, I thought the representative Lundtigen should rather be busy making sure that we get a good enough public health supply in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e605	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e608	We have been through a fall and a winter with a strong focus on the far too high sick leave. There is a willingness from both the employer and the political system to take action to reduce sick leave. We all agree that such cooperation between employees and employers and the public is important. We all agree that it is necessary to take a series of measures – there is not one measure that is a sedentary, sedentary to reduce sick leave, but we must think here of both prevention and treatment. It is also now agreed that it is important to take action early in the period of sick leave. It is known from experience that the longer a person goes ill, the less likely he is to return to work. It is therefore gratifying that there was a cross-political agreement to grant 600 million. NOK in order to be able to get workers back to work more quickly. It is a measure that has previously been opposed to the left. I am pleased that they have now blessed this measure. I am also pleased that during the examination of that proposal, the dogmatic resistance to private health services was removed, and rather opened up to the use of free capacity, where free capacity exists, regardless of whether it is within the public or private sector. The more difficult it is then to understand the violent fundamental resistance and, in part, the dogmatic argument against this common-citizen proposal. I have registered that four main arguments are used. One is that you don't like that it says 'tax' in this proposal. But the proposal is not about giving tax relief. It is a matter of avoiding the imposition of a criminal tax if the employer pays a worker’s treatment costs or a health insurance. The opposition of the Workers' Party, SVs and unfortunately also the Centre's opposition to this proposal means in practice that it will pay off for an employee to be ill, because if the employer comes to you and says, dear, I will now make sure that you get treatment so that you can get back to work quickly, the employee can say that'sorry, Mac', I can't afford it. Thus, if the employer pays the cost of treatment, a criminal tax will be imposed. Then it is obviously better for the Workers' Party and SV, and unfortunately also for the Centre's party, that they stay ill than that they are paid for the treatment costs. The second, according to Agdestein, is that it is restrictive to introduce and deduct taxes. There is also a view that I share in principle, but I have recorded that the Workers' Party and the Centre are quite liberal in terms of tax deductions in the priority areas selected – on agricultural tax deductions, on tax deductions to LO members or on commuting deductions. There you have a more pragmatic attitude, and you're not quite as principled and dogmatic as you are in relation to this. So that's the third argument. It's that everyone has to go. But it'll also be rhetorical. The reality is that the rich, as I understand, the Workers' Party and the SV are really out to take, will always be able to take care of themselves. If you have a rich employer and you have a liberal economy, it does not mean anything to the world if the employer pays a poor health insurance. But for ordinary employees, those who make $300,000, $400,000, $500,000, this might mean a lot. I have the impression that in the pursuit of the rich you are willing to use almost any instrument and ignore any consequence of these proposals. It's kind of more important to be able to go into a campaign and say that we've taken the rich, than to say that we've implemented an action that actually works. This is a proposal that is important for ordinary workers. I think – with all due respect – that this is something that they so-called rich, with a rich employer, cares about the cat. This is true of ordinary people. The last argument I'm recording is that you're against people buying past the queue. The fact that you should not be able to buy past the queue is, of course, a seemingly fair and solidarity. But this is a principle which the representative of Syversen was also involved in, which has already been broken. You're willing to spend $600 million. NOK to buy people out of a queue to make sure they get back to work faster. But when there is a proposal, which the representative Aasen Agdestein characterized as marginal, then suddenly there is a very fundamental resistance to it. I would like to stress that our proposal is not intended to go at the expense of anyone. It is a crystal clear premise in our proposal that you should not crowd out other people who are at work or who are not at work. Here it is about buying free capacity. Free capacity can be purchased in public, private or abroad. In other words, it's not about forcing anyone. This is about using the available capacity that is. So finally, I've exchanged letters with the Minister of Finance on the coverage of massage expenses. Not that I myself have stiff shoulders, but I have registered that the Minister of Finance has also opened up the possibility that criminal taxes should not be imposed if you get massages to prevent sick leave. In other words, that's okay. But at the moment you've gotten sick, you're going to have to risk getting a criminal tax if you go to the same masseur. I can't understand the big difference between being massaged at work and being massaged when you're actually sick, when it can help you get back to work faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e633	I think we can all agree that we want to bring down sick leave. It's just a question of which way works best, and what arrangements you're dependent on. Under today's scheme, free capacity can also be purchased in the health sector. There is no contradiction between this scheme and the proposal which, among other things: Mr. Sanner is behind this. My question is: Do you think it is the employer who should give priority to the health queue, or is it the doctor and others who print sick messages, who have now become much more active in the new scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e642	Some of the problem is that we just got into the situation that we have to give priority. That's because we don't have a health care system that can ensure that people get help when they need it. What is contained in our proposal is that it is the employer, the company or the public institution that pays for health insurance or treatment costs. But I would like to say that in the democratic working life we have, I would consider it quite natural that this type of proposal is something which, of course, should also be discussed between employers and employees. I agree with the representative Agdestein that in a workplace this is something that should apply primarily to everyone, not just to anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e649	Jan Tore Sanner has the gift of frenzy. I have never heard Jan Tore Sanner in position argue very strongly that we should have a health care system with a lot of overcapacity, so that employers can make sure to buy free capacity in the public health service. On the contrary, I have heard that Jan Tore Sanner in opposition has always talked about labour shortages. In fact, there is a shortage of labour. It is not that there is a pile of unemployed doctors around the streets, who will be able to go in and do all the tasks that Jan Tore Sanner believes private employers should go in and ask for. This is about our lack of health care. Then the question is very simple. At the moment that we use the community's money to ask employers to sponsor workers by financing this privately, it will subtract resources from elsewhere. Doesn't Jan Tore really see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e656	No, I don't. On the other hand, I fully agree with the representative Holmås that there is just a shortage of labour that is the main problem in today's economy and in today's labour market. This proposal intends to reduce labour shortages. The fact that many workers go sick and do not receive the necessary treatment in order to get back to work quickly is precisely one of the reasons why we have a major shortage of labour. Our proposal also states that there is no need to purchase treatment from a public institution. You can buy from a private institution, or you can buy from a foreign country. That was actually the reality of the insurance scheme we exempted from criminal tax, a scheme in which insurance companies also bought treatment abroad. Then you will avoid that representative Holmås is anxious, namely that it should be too crowded at the public hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e663	It's a pleasure to listen to the representative Sanner from the new Right. But I must say that the raisin in the sausage was the end, where he claimed that this would not be at the expense of anyone. So we are facing a sector where there is no shortage of resources – the proposal is for the benefit of everyone! I ask the representative to answer the Norwegian people why such a proposal is not unanimous when it benefits everyone. Does the representative Sanner have more examples of such free lunch in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e668	The question is very good, but it should be left to the representative of his own Minister of Finance, why there is so much fundamental resistance and such dogmatic arguments against it. I do not understand the resistance, because I believe this is a proposal that gives a win-win situation, which allows employees to return to work faster, and you can use the available capacity. I am strongly responding to the arguments that the left-hand side, unfortunately also the centre party, uses against the proposal. An attempt is being made to label this as a proposal that will apply to the rich. This is a proposal that will apply to ordinary workers, who will create greater justice, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e673	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e676	I must admit that I do not think this is a very difficult proposal to discuss and deal with here, either in principle or pragmatically. Usually, right-wing people argue in principle, but not in this case. Usually, right-wing people say that everyone benefits an employee, should initially be taxed equally. If you are paid, you are taxed. If you get a car from your employer, it should be taxed. If you get a free vacation from your employer, it is taxed. If you receive free home insurance, it is taxed. Then it also makes sense that you will receive a free health insurance from your employer, and it will be taxed for. There is no hokuspocus to go in and look at purely in principle in relation to an overall tax system. The more pragmatic approach to the problem does not make me think there is a difficult debate either. We don't have any good evidence that this works. We do not have good research results to show that this particular measure led to lower sick leave or to an overall prioritisation of the Community’s health resources, which in turn led to more people moving faster into work. What we know is that we have real and good evidence that it led to more health insurance. With Right and Right friends in the financial industry, there is no doubt that this led to more health insurance. I don't think making sure that there are more health insurance is a legitimate measure that the community is going to spend a lot of money on. It would have been a lot better if the money could go to the community instead, and overall contributed to more people getting a proper follow-up of a good public health service. The second pragmatic approach is whether this has a good distribution profile – and it does not. Three-quarters of those who received the kind of health insurance we're talking about here belong to the high-wage groups. The parties claiming to have the “heart in the right place” should be concerned that the community is sponsoring a system that benefits primarily those who have the most money. So we see that even after we remove this, there will be more health insurance. It shows that it's not money. It is not about money when it comes to sponsoring high pay with health insurance. Then the question is, if there is no money in that sector, are we going to spend the community's savings on this? So my answer is, no, I think that's actually not right. So it's the last piece that's very important, and it's because we actually have scarce health resources. We're training a bunch of games this year. Over the past five to six decades, we have had a doubling in the training of doctors here in Norway. We train more doctors and more health professionals, and this is very important because we have a growing need for health care in the years to come. Then we talk about how to prioritize the community's health resources. I believe that it is a task that the community should take. We're the ones who have to decide. We've done it. We have said that it is important for the community to make sure that priority is given to people who are sick and who are workers, and we have done so by placing money in the fund that is now to give priority to some of these in the queue – preferably by not pushing on other capacities. We're trying as best we can to prioritize these, because it makes sense for society as a whole. I do not want to let private employers give priority to who should go the farthest in that queue. I don't want to promote such a system. I know that some employers still give priority to buying health insurance for their employees, but at least I do not want to lubricate this system financially with the community's money. So Jan Tore Sanner says that we can let the private fix this. Yeah, where do the games that work in the private sector come from then? Where do the plastic surgeons who work in the private sector come from, and who are now using their powers to perform beauty operations on people? They come from the public. We have given them specialist training that is very expensive, and they move into the private sector and provide their services instead. So I don't want to know that we're going to spend the community's money encouraging that spiral to go faster in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e694	The representative Holmås compared health services to free car and free vacation. That was pretty interesting. As far as I know, free vacation and free car are not a public responsibility. But healthcare is a public responsibility, and it is therefore the public that fails and does not provide the necessary healthcare that people need and require. That is why this type of proposal is coming. My question to the representative Holmås is: Is it more important for SV that all people are in an equally long public health queue? Or does the representative Holmås think that society is getting better and warmer if as much treatment as possible, despite the fact that these people do not belong to SV's nuclear electors?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e702	It is most important that as much as possible be treated, and the way we provide for this, is that we use the community's resources in the way that overall benefits society the best. Instead of sponsoring health insurance by employers by providing tax incentives, this money should go to the community so that we could spend it on health care. That seems to me to have been a far better way of prioritizing society's resources. I think we can agree that that priority is not really some employer who is going to do it separately, based on who has the most money. In fact, it should be us two in common, together with all the others on the Stortinget and in other political bodies, and doctors, who assess who should be given priority in the queue, who should give priority to health resources in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e707	Large groups have been in action to try to solve the issue of sick leave, not least last autumn following the government misdemeanors with the IA agreement. The reason is that we're busy with the labour shortage. The representative Holmås was also in his reply earlier to Jan Tore Sanner inside the scarce labour force and was busy with it. The same is true of his Minister of Finance, who, at least in the past, has slept poorly at night in view of the fact that we need more labour. Does not the representative Holmås, despite the lack of evidence that there are enough results from this scheme, mean that all measures to get people back to work quickly in the situation we are in are important?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e712	I am willing to assess the vast majority of measures for which there is good evidence is the best way to use community resources to reduce sick leave. But Svein Fleet or others have not provided any such documentation on the table. They've managed to put evidence on the table that shows that there's more health insurance, but, with respect to reporting, it's not the same as getting more people healthy. The other thing that I think it's important to say something about sick leave is: we're not doing this just because it's about labour shortages. It's about having people who get sick, and most of those who get sick, we find ourselves in low-paid sectors. There are very many low-paid health workers who get sick, there are very many who work in the cleaning industry and other low-paid service workers who get sick. They will not benefit very much from this measure. That's what people who work in high-wage jobs do. If employers were to spend money on one measure to reduce sick leave, they should rather spend it on preventive work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e719	I have to say, in this debate, I have a little trouble finding the reasons of the government parties for why they should be against, like with a pragmatic starting point, to make one contribution – perhaps not the biggest contribution, perhaps a limited contribution – to something that should be good, that is, to bring down sick leave and keep people healthy and at work. But with regard to the resistance of the representative Heikki Holmås from SV, it is easier to understand on a principle basis. This is about using taxes to make people do sensible things, and it might be about triggering some more private initiatives in the health sector. I understand that both parts break on basically heavy water and are difficult for SV. But my simple question goes on sick leave, for the representative Agdestein from the government parties stated that this proposal did not make a significant contribution. That's what I'm interpreting, that it's after all a contribution, and it's like we've had a hard time finding something that makes a contribution at all. Does Heikki Holmås agree that a certain contribution to reducing sick leave would this proposal be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e732	I'm certainly not sure. It may cause some decline, but I am certainly not sure of it, and I should have liked to have some good evidence of it before I would agree to consider whether we are going to spend the community's money on it. I am absolutely sure that Lars Sponheim agrees that it is important to make the best possible use of the community's resources. If we look at the money we spend on tax relief in this proposal, in addition to all the money that employers spend on health insurance, I am sure we will be able to see that overall this money could have been spent in a way that better reduced sick leave than the proposal here from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e737	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e740	At first a little greeting to Heikki Holmås, who thought some were particularly concerned about having «the heart of the right place». When we first talk about health, we're basically concerned that most people have it, not least for health reasons. On December 5, last year, the Evening Post told the story of Nathalie Brodahl. She had had prolapse in her back. The decision maker thought she should get sick, but that didn't want Brodahl. She would rather work and be useful. And she was lucky. She had an employer who said she was willing to pay for the necessary treatment. Result: Brodahl dropped out of search, she continued to work, she got a better daily life, and the state saved social security costs. The issue today is simply the following: Is it positive that people such as Brodahl do not get sick, or is it primarily a problem that employers provide their employees with an offer of treatment faster than the public health service in a given case? In my opinion, it is primarily positive that employers show responsibility for preventing long-term sickness. In the field of health and safety policy, it is, in fact, a sensible requirement for employers to take preventive measures to prevent health and safety at work, and employers, as everyone knows, also have a follow-up responsibility in the IA agreement for sick workers to get them back to work more quickly. A natural consequence of tax policy should then also be to stimulate such a stronger employer responsibility, according to the principle of taxing less of which one will have more, and to the extent of vice versa. Otherwise, when the ministry makes it a central counter-argument that most people who benefit from an employer-paid scheme may be in the top tax position, I think it is evidence that one has forgotten to ask the general question, whether it is actually positive that tax policy can also help to get people back to work faster. It could have been a major counter-argument if there had been evidence that tax deductions for health insurance paid by employers and treatment costs actually increased waiting time for others with similar treatment needs. We do not disagree on that. However, we can also see that the government parties do not have evidence that this is the case. There does not appear to be a major conflict of interest between favouring employers' work against sick leave and the desire for good, universal and, in particular, fair health services for the whole population, whether financed from the budget of health regions or through the purchase of health services. It is also fully possible to ensure that employers who choose to have such schemes actually offer this to the whole workforce. Moreover, without tax preference, public authorities do not have real opportunities to ensure that such employer-paid schemes actually become an offer to all at work. The opposition has tried to be constructive in its proposal. The aim is to provide a regulatory home in order to provide tax exemptions for the employer’s coverage of health insurance and treatment costs. The Christian People's Party would be absolutely open to a dialogue on the rational design of such a scheme. It wouldn't necessarily be a blue copy of the previous arrangement, even if we didn't have any significant objections to it either. As you know, all the main social organisations, with the exception of LO, have been positive for the reintroduction of the previous scheme. And central people in the LO have given signals that there would be a positive outcome with defined tax-advantage schemes related to sick leave. However, we have to note that in this case, the government parties are cash repudiating. It's search, primarily for the purpose of combating long-term sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e755	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e758	In relation to the cash support principle, the Christian People's Party believes that those who do not use will receive money. In the case of health insurance, or this case, they believe that those who use it will receive money. There could have been a fundamental clarification of the stand of the Christian People's Party. This proposal recalls the time before the Workers' Party and the welfare state came. Business owners, those who were rich enough, paid health and school services for their employees. Those who did not have a job were put on the outside. The principle then becomes that those who have will get. Does not the representative of Syversen feel more comfortable with the slogan ‘All shall join’?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e763	Well, the slogan 'All shall come with' I have the sense for in certain contexts. At the same time, I have no sense of a policy that says that ‘Everyone shall stand still’, if that is the concrete consequence of the kind of policy that the government parties are now defending. I'm not going to take up the entire cash support debate, just saying that the principal starting point of Klungland is I completely disagree. But I am aware that the Workers' Party thinks it is good to spend NOK 140 000 on operating expenses for a nursery place, and that those who do not use it and fit their own children should have zero. I am aware that this is the position of the Workers' Party. So with regard to this specific matter, I would say that it almost sounds as if those who are being treated should this proposal be adopted, after the Labour Party's view is not to be dealt with. But they must be aware of that. The question is whether we want to use the capacity and get more quickly back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e770	This has become such an slogan debate, and then there are many things that can be said. So instead of «All must join», the Seven believes that we stand for a policy where «All must remain». Maybe it's a little bit over the top. But the policy of the Seven is based on «Others shall remain». Because what we're talking about here is giving priority to the resources that exist in the healthcare system. I know very well that the representative is aware that there are always tough priorities here. If that's the way we make provision for a system that more than today develops a private hospital, to a greater extent than today, the public health service is draining resources because the private health insurance system is failing, I cannot, with my best will, understand that this is going to be something that the Syversen and the Christian People's Party will stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e776	Now it was Klungland's representative who started the slogan debate. I thought it was such a special starting point that it must be allowed to replicate. What I actually feel is the main argument of the government parties, is a kind of ambiguity aspect, that you're so afraid that someone is going to be bought out of a situation where you're not at risk of being diagnosed with long-term disease, that you choose not to get that opportunity either. I don't understand the logic. I almost think it's a bit rude – I think I have to say it – when the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have now agreed to buy out specific groups in the labour market, which in the past has been strongly opposed in principle because they have said that it is at the expense of those who are not in the labour market. So that the Workers' Party and SV, and the Center's party for that matter, it seems reasonable to present that argument now, amazes me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e783	The Christian People's Party claims that they are concerned with fair distribution. Earlier when the Right has been out with its great tax promises, the Christian People's Party has said that it is not relevant; it will weaken the level of welfare so dramatically that they will not participate in it. We saw in the last period, compared to what is now the reality of this government, that they were nevertheless fooled into being on a 13 billion dollars tax bill a year. Does the Christian People’s Party stand firm on its principles of weakening the public offer when spending money on tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e788	I'd like to have a very general tax debate. For the Christian People's Party, it's a point to have a tax system and a tax policy that makes a business work, not least, and that we have a tax system that also encourages people to choose to work, thus giving productivity to society. I want to say that in general, the tax policy that the previous government led was good, not least because the previous Stoltenberg government had led a far too weak industrial policy in that area. It's the policy that today's government benefits from in fact, it's the policy that makes us have a business that goes very well and that makes it competitive. So a tax debate I think is very interesting, but if we're just talking about the level and rates, I think one forgets a very essential basis for a good tax policy, namely whether it leads to a good working situation for the business community, and whether it encourages work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e793	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e796	This is a very important topic for the many people who have work skills but are out of work. It is an important theme both for individuals to have a good life and not least to have a good social economy. There is disagreement between the government parties and the opposition, which is what is best. I think everyone, perhaps with the exception of the representative Sanner, agrees that there is a shortage of resources, and that that is why there is a matter of prioritizing. What is then proposed by the opposition is that a person should be exempt from tax on treatment paid by the employer. From some it is produced in such a way that it will remove today’s discrimination, while from the side of the government parties it is very clearly pointed out that it will create new and greater discrimination. It is quite obvious that those groups of workers who have a strong negotiating position or those who have a high level of profitability have a better chance of doing so than groups of workers or employers who are in a more difficult economic situation. It is therefore a little surprising that the Progress Party is so unique to the proposal, because the Advance Party's voters are to a large extent those who have a lower level of income and profitability. This also applies to their support from employers. This is a central reason on the part of the Centre Party to stick to the universal system, which involves as much equal treatment as possible, and that there are public goods, public priorities and public bets to ensure that everyone, regardless of their status and position, is provided with the best possible health care. What is Regeringen’s line is to invest heavily in improving the situation in both hospital and health care and rehabilitation services. It's worth over 600 million. kr for the current year, and it will produce results subsequently. I want to focus particularly on the rehabilitation services within the 600 million. kr. It is important that in the distribution of the money, we use the capacity of the many good private institutions operated by NPISHs or private owners who operate according to long-term principles without emphasis on economic profits withdrawn from the business. There's a lot of good capacity here, there's free capacity, and there's capacity for a reasonable money. Therefore, it is important that the money now going to both NAV and regional enterprises should go to a treatment that is of good quality, and to the extent that the public has to buy services, it must be done at a price in long-term contracts, where one assumes that it is of good quality. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it may not be right to assume that, as it appears to be happening today, there is a large degree of insourcing of services to the public, when there are good and reasonable private offerings. Finally, I would like to stress the need for management and control systems that ensure traceability of what money is spent on this with additional health care and rehabilitation efforts, and that also provides a basis for evaluation, i.e. more effective, good services. In the end, I just want to reiterate that health care is a public responsibility, and it is important, on the part of the Central Party, to ensure the necessary appropriations and to increase the effort for better organisation, because there are great opportunities for improvement in order to make people healthy faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e811	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e814	I registered that Lundtegen had a greeting to the Progress Party. He was concerned about why we agreed to this proposal, all the time it was – in his opinion – those with low incomes this would affect. I guess that's the opposite, that those who earn very well in this country are able to do it by their own means, and not least can buy themselves out of any queue. That should be a concern for the Centre Party, so I am surprised that this proposal is rejected. On the one hand, the central part of government is very much for what has now been done, among other things. The IA agreement, which is to grant 630 million. SEK to buy more rapid treatment for sick workers, whereas employers and employees who are now following this without State contributions are taxed. My question then is, what is the big difference in principle? One of the proposals here, what we're now promoting, is that you're strongly opposed, while granting these 630 million. kr you were very much in favour. I'd like to get a reason for the big fundamental difference with the central party's eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e821	It is quite wrong, the representative Leirstein here claims, that the reduction in taxes on employers will lead to no State contribution to that priority. Reduced tax is a government contribution. What's the central part's line is what's in the setting. Through what has happened in the Sick Pay Committee, the follow-up to it and the follow-up to the IA agreement, we get a public organization of everything, where there are diagnosiss, the objective conditions, which are to be taken into account, rather than taking people out of health cows, which we need to get away from as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e828	In the setting, among other things, writes the representative Lundtigen that such purchases of healthcare relate to selected employees and that they are negotiable. We have heard earlier today that it is for those who make a lot of money, and that is those who are in the top tax position, as the representative Agdestein says – that is, almost an average of the population. Is it not true that the selected employees who receive the treatment are not taken out according to income differences, but that there is a completely different material thing, namely whether you are ill or not? Is there any discrimination in the companies against which the representative Lundtigen disagrees?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e835	It's perfectly correct that those who are taken out are the ones who are sick. What is at the heart of the totality here is that we need to organise the total health and rehabilitation provision so that if you are ill in one or the other situation in life, it is something that needs to be resolved independently of other circumstances, such as your professional relationship. It is quite obvious that the functioning of tax-favorised incentive schemes helps to reinforce differences. One does not go to the root of the problem and ensures a better organisation of the public offer and a quantity of resources for the public offer so that this becomes unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e842	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e846	I will use these minutes to make some comments on the debate and not repeat the arguments for the proposal to which I am advocating and for which it has been well argued by my co-rapporteurs. So far, this has become a more interesting debate than one could expect from the size of the matter. It has interesting principal aspects, not least by the fact that the representative Agdestein, attended a good party meeting on the weekend, broke the slogan 'All shall join' into this debate. In a situation where we have a significant queue in one of our most important areas of society, it becomes an interesting issue. The fact that everyone should come along should mean that we have to wind up all the cows and make sure that everyone comes on the inside at the same time. The doorway may be crowded if we are not to organise things like cows, and economists may not just like that there should be no cows in some areas – even if they are too long in the health sector – because this leads to reasonable use of resources. Then it gets so fast that everyone goes into the queue, because then everyone has the same hurt, and then you can comfort each other. I think the representative Agdestein should perhaps explain a little what she means here. This raises some important fundamental issues. In the health sector, priority is given to this. It is prioritised on a medical basis. It's prioritised by doctors, who look at how fast we should treat you, because you're a young person, and you should get to work quickly. It is clear that such consideration is taken all the way. To give the impression that this is going to be a random number patch, something like when you're in a pole queue, and then you're going to be taken after each other, I think you're just going to have to look in your eyes that's not right. There are differences in public health services all the time. Fortunately, some people use their heads and organize the queue – as long as we have a queue. So it's been mentioned these 630 million. kr that appeared when the government just up during Christmas negotiated with its parliamentary basis on the other side of the Youngstorget on the sickness pay system and sick leave. That was the way, as far as I can remember, the Government of the State Budget proposal terminated the arrangement that was, and that was how the Government thought it would be. So something happened in a secret back room, where it showed up at 630 million. kr of the country’s money to be used to buy healthcare and move the queue, so that the most useful people – if that is what you have thought – or the LO would like to contribute to the queue will be allowed to arrive in the queue. That very principle was introduced at that time. Because the government originally didn't think so, but now it's used as an argument against this proposal. I don't see the logic of it. I'm going to shift a little to the labour force and the sick pay that was also mentioned in the debate. I think all of us who have worked on these issues over the last few years have been looking for good suggestions to help reduce sick leave. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Finance spends a lot of time and is frustrated that there are no better spell forms to help reduce sick leave and sick pay. I also understood this in the speeches by the representative Agdestein that, to the extent that this proposal can at least be a contribution, the situation in the case of sick leave is enough so that we should use absolutely all the contributions where the State can trigger significantly greater effects than the costs of sick leave. Then there's a paradox, as I say, when I sit and reflect around this, that when everyone agrees that there's the lack of labour that's the important thing, we have to bring down the sick leave, we have to try to avoid, through a small, simple operation, for example, that people get sick leave, they can't spend 20 million. to trigger the effects of this proposal, while one, for example. spends DKK 1 billion in government contributions to an AFP scheme to stimulate early retirement. I have to say that there is a great paradox in a situation where we really need labour to a significant extent. Finally, with capacity. In any case, here we can buy allowances abroad with great advantage, at my discretion, and no one should think at the expense of what we might have of medical resources domestically.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e863	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e866	There are exciting debates in Stortinget which are a positive surprise. I'm sure that's the representative of Sponheim and I agreed. This debate has been basically, but there may have been a little too much debate in relation to an action that has no documented effect, and that is what will be my point in my question to Sponheim. Sponheim was himself a minister of the previous government when this scheme worked for a short period of time, and it was not admitted that the scheme would have any budgetary impact when the scheme worked. Does the representative, Mr Sponheim, think that this tax exemption proposal is a good proposal when it is not even noted on the expenditures?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e873	I believe that this proposal has had an effect. I don't think it's any very big effect, but it's like in my approach to these kind of problems that I can't just see the macro effects of this, I can't just see the big problems. I see a lot of single examples. I see a lot of people who through this scheme have been given the opportunity to release a sick leave, who have received the surgery that allows them to continue in their job. It's also important. I am absolutely convinced that this system had a certain effect – as I also perceived Agdestein in her main post, where she said it had no significant significance, but a certain significance – and I am absolutely sure that this system could have a greater effect gradually. However, I expect that since the representative Agdestein will wind up all the cows – because it is an effective way to do so – there will be no more such proposals, and that will take out the capacity of the public health service, and that can already be done in the revised national budget and perhaps in the state budget for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e880	I think it is largely a virtue to comply with the agreed agreements, but I hear that Lars Sponheim has a different view of it. But I'm kind of jumping at the intrusion angle of the representative Sponheim in relation to this, because it's also a little about non-discrimination here. If I buy a health insurance, I have already paid a lot of taxes to the community on the money for which I buy that health insurance. But if my employer wants to buy exactly the same health insurance, then Sponheim believes that the community should sponsor this, and the insurance should therefore be cheaper. It's possible that in a liberal world this might sound wise and interrelated, but at least it's not particularly social liberal. Because what we know from experience with these things is that it's not the cleaning worker and the bus driver who gets these insurances, it's the financier and the engineer. I don't think that's particularly social.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e889	Being able to give people both health insurance and prompt treatment means I'm social. Even if you can't help everyone at once, at the same time, it's good that more people get quick help. It's good economy, and it's both liberal and social. But then once again, if we're going to discuss Difference Norway and injustice, we see that the greatest difference in a country, and perhaps the greatest injustice, unfortunately, is that we're so intermarriage differently in terms of health. Genes and health are so unequally distributed that it might be here that we find the greatest differences. The fact that we use both this tool, which in itself is very small, and many other means of enabling people to keep their health longer, must then be fundamentally good and social – if one is not liberal, so also for a socialist.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e901	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e904	The opposition party proposes to reverse the tax exemption scheme for treatment costs and sickness insurance paid by employers. There was a budgetary settlement in the previous large-scale period between the three previous government parties and the Progress Party that provided the basis for the system to be introduced. The new government already proposed that the tax exemption be abolished during the 2006 budgetary procedure. The majority in Stortinget decided to remove the scheme because there are strong principle arguments against the system. The Labour Party, SV and the Centerpartie stressed that the tax reform was just about to clean up and tighten up the tax system. It also applies to the minimisation of taxes on in kind, as proposed in Document No. 8:26 for 2006-2007. I believe there is a widespread perception that treatment costs and health insurance are considered private expenditure. Many have been willing to pay for such treatment or insurance itself. On the other hand, if the employer pays for the treatment, this is indisputably an advantage for the employee. This must therefore be regarded as a form of remuneration. For the government party, it is an important starting point for all remuneration to be taxed equally. It should be uninteresting if we talk about cash or cash payments. The opposition party clearly bases its policy on another norm. Unfortunately, in our society, there are many examples of unfair distribution of performances. In writing to the Committee, the Minister of Finance pointed out that about three quarters of those who received treatment costs and treatment insurance from employers in 2003 were in the top tax position. The Council of State points out that fiscal non-discrimination of all forms of remuneration is important in order to prevent discrimination. That's my point of view. There is particular reason to note that the Christian People's Party took the position they are doing in this matter. The party is happy to present itself as the bearer of justice and social conscience. It has clearly failed in the matter that we are now debating, since the Progress Party got the Christian People's Party on new ideas in 2003. The proposal that employers can pay treatment costs and health insurance also has another very negative side. In practice, the system makes a clear distinction between people. Normal workers become the losers in the system. It turned out that workers without a particularly strong position in the labour market were not offered to employers to pay the costs. We found a corresponding effect in companies with weak economies. The government party cannot defend a system that favours the most resource-intensive workers and the most profitable companies. Building systematic inequality between people and businesses is not our policy. It accentuates differences and does not bring down unlucky differences in society. We cannot defend such a policy. Our option is to grant permission so that people who receive sick pay can return to work as quickly as possible. We followed up in this area by allowing 600 million. kr for such purchases of health and rehabilitation services in the 2007 budget. In our option, we don't let employers choose who will be treated. We also did not leave the profitability of the companies in charge. The new supply of health and rehabilitation services works in practice. In the newspaper yesterday we could read about the home assistant Tone Fluesand from Averøy. Heavy lifting and wear make operation necessary. It gets her quickly, and then rehabilitation. In less than a short time, the home assistant will be back to work. I'm going to take this example to illustrate that our alternative provides for those who need it. It is at least as important to provide medical assistance to the home assistant as to a person in the top tax position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e934	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e937	First of all, I must correct the history description of Sandal's representative, because the background to the proposal presented today is a common private document No. Eight proposals. A few years ago, it also came in as a result of a budgetary settlement between the then government parties and the Progress Party. But this is something the Christian People's Party has supported by itself being on a proposal for a few years back in this Chamber. I would just like to remind you that the reason why we support the proposal is that it can help individuals to improve their health, get back to work faster, maybe avoid getting sick, without going at the expense of other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e945	I would like to add some comments to what the representative Sandal said. He had an article that went on what the representative Agdestein had to say a little earlier, that everyone should come along, and that we have to ensure a health supply for everyone. Of course, it's the Progress Party 100 pst. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But the point is that this is not the case today, and that is precisely why some companies do well to spend money on something that should have been a public responsibility, namely the health care needed for those workers who need it in order to get to work as quickly as possible and to avoid the burden of unemployment. It has not been possible today in the public health service, and then I thought that it should concentrate on it instead of taxing those who receive this kind of treatment paid by employers. So to another problem, which has been drawn up before. This applies to the difference between rich enterprises, who can afford to add lizards, physiotherapists and nurses, and who can offer workers who are in the process of becoming ill, or who have become ill, so that they can recover more quickly. They then have no tax burden – and that is quite right – while enterprises that are not large enough to own their bodies and that have to buy these services must first be charged the employer’s fee in addition to the real cost, and then the employee who receives this necessary health supply must also pay taxes because the government party has determined that this is a beneficial thing to be taxed. In this debate, I have not received an answer as to why there should be such a distinction between large, rich enterprises and small enterprises, and I could well think of that for an explanation. But I doubt that I get it, because there is no material difference between these copies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e954	I take the floor because I believe that the debate – whether it is not due to a misunderstanding – has been somewhat influenced by the fact that these companies that discover that there are workers who need an operation or treatment that can solve the situation and make them work quickly are prevented from doing something because it is not tax deductions. That's wrong. They may go to a regular doctor or another person authorised to print a medical report, and then they may refer to a private hospital or a public hospital. If that institution finds out that the criteria are in place in relation to this grant scheme, which we have all been involved in adopting, it will receive the treatment required and which will make him or her healthy. So the problem is solved in and of its own accord. So making this slightly artificial contradiction, that if you don't get tax deductions, you don't get treatment at all, you might have been right before we had adopted this grant scheme, but that's not true today. This scheme has just begun to work, it has worked for a few weeks – started in March – and while we are here discussing it, I hope that people are referred to and treated so that there are fewer sick people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e959	It is not so rare, as the representative Sponheim pointed out, that there are matters that have relatively limited scope, which give rise to strong impetus to ideological debates. It was really the contribution of the head of the finance committee, Reidar Sandal, who made me ask for the floor, when he described what was supposed to be the two totally opposite positions of the government parties and the opposition to this matter. He described in very strong and beautiful colours how brilliant it is with the offer of rehabilitation in today's Norwegian healthcare system. Then I think we're on each of our globes. Because at least in the Health and Welfare Committee, we are getting an increasing number of enquiries from all the counties in this country that the situation of the institutions providing occupational rehabilitation is worse than it has ever been. Many of these institutions go for half the machine and less than that, and some of them are even threatened by closure, because, on the instructions of the Government, public health should not buy services from private providers. I think it would be useful to leave aside the great ideological rhetoric and stick your finger in the ground and smell where you actually find yourself in the area of the rehabilitation offer in today's Norway. It's also a paradox that when you come to an agreement, as you did last year, to put off well and well 600 million. exceptionally precisely to help people get back to work as quickly as possible, a third calendar year has now passed without this money being put into circulation at all, because the bureaucratic apparatus in the public health sector works as slowly as it actually does. There are considerable gains here if you put this money in circulation and make sure that the excellent institutions that are currently either going for half the machine or that almost have to close the door can actually do their job. With regard to the specific proposal, it is true that several have pointed out that the scope seems to have had a limited impact, but that does not prevent it from being significant for those individuals who have thus received an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e970	I will not prolong the debate much, but I need to associate a few comments with the last three articles. The representative of the Seven said that he would not benefit from the history I gave by the Christian People's Party's role in the matter that we are now discussing. I can prove that the arrangements put in place in 2003 came about after a budgetary settlement between the three previous government parties and the Progress Party. It's irrevocably fixed as a fact. It is also the case that the current government parties withdrew the scheme during the treatment of the 2006 budget. If the Christian People's Party has had other exercises and thoughts on this matter in the meantime, I don't ignore it, but these are the important and central elements of the history description. When it comes to Mr. Hageset's reflections on the effects of the system of government parties, I would like to highlight two main points. The only thing is that we can't defend a system that creates inequality between people depending on how much they think. And we can't have a system that treats companies that have very good profitability, and companies that don't have it and therefore can't give them an offer, unlike Document No. The 8's add up. So it's also an important tax policy foundation for what we've done. So the representative quoted me as paying so that I should have said that the provision of rehabilitation in this country is brilliant. It would be an advantage if the representative's salary had quoted me correctly. I mentioned the provision of rehabilitation and gave a concrete example of the fact that the system now introduced by the majority in Stortinget sees positive effects, and I referred to a woman from More and Romesdal who stood up in the media and told of her situation. I'm not a system runner. I don't mean that the provision of rehabilitation is good enough. I'm busy getting the money in circulation and making the system work, but it also has to be legitimate to point to the positive effects of a system that we still have to have a critical look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e981	It is excellent with single copies taken from the press. It has what modern journalism calls a human touch. But it doesn't work very well as a representative description, as the representative Sandal suggested. At least it works well as a representative description of what happened to the 600 million. Because so far, with the 600 million, it's with respect to reporting nothing happened, except that they're on their way in the bureaucratic apparatus. So far, I have not seen a single rehabilitation institution in this country look at that money. That's exactly what I allowed myself to point out, that this is precisely due to the system constraints resulting from the ideological approach of the government parties to this field. It is simply due to the fact that the vast majority of rehabilitation institutions in this country — which are competent, who have just gained experience in occupational rehabilitation — are unfortunately not public but private institutions. Because for reasons of principle one wants to distinguish between public and private institutions, the offer to users becomes harmful. I have tried repeatedly in debates in this Chamber to appeal to my colleagues in the health and care committee of the red-green parties, whether it would not be soon time to put these ideological glasses on and ask how to get something back for the 600 million, and how to escalate the offer of labour-oriented rehabilitation in the institutions that have developed their skills, and which have proved that the results of their treatment services are very good. To take one concrete example: the Heart and Pulmonary Disease Association operates an excellent rehabilitation institution at Røros, tipping top modern, which it itself has invested in and cost. Today this institution goes too much, very limited machine, simply because public health businesses are not interested in buying places for treatment for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e988	A brief comment to the representative Sandal, who would not answer Gjermund Hagesetter's questions. He would like to comment on the other, but not the questions of Hagesett. Since he is so concerned with millimetres of justice and will not help the so-called rich companies: what about the companies that have occupational health services, where employees are not taxed, for example. We at Stortinget? So it's the big businesses, the so-called rich companies, as Sandal's representative calls them, that have occupational health services, while the small businesses don't have the opportunity to provide occupational health services. They're the ones that are being discriminated against. Is he not concerned about having this millimetre of justice in this particular case, or does the Government perhaps plan to tax also those who have occupational health services? The exact same applies to taxes on training, just to take the example. The large enterprises have free access to training opportunities, while smaller enterprises receive tax supplements if they provide training cards to employees. It's the exact same principle. Either you have to be consistent, as Sandal's representative was concerned about, and tax those who have occupational health and training spaces for employees, or you have to give smaller businesses the opportunity to provide medical and training services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e997	It was the representative's salary that made me find reason to elaborate a little more on what I said earlier about rehabilitation. I agree with the representative for Wage that what is now happening in the area of rehabilitation should be dealt with with with with greater sensitivity, and that what was said as ideological glasses should be added. From my point of view in Buskerud, I have the experience that it is full of what the representative says, and which I myself took up in my main post, that what is developing is that good rehabilitation services within NPISHs or within companies that have very low financial profit motives are offers that are now becoming vacant and unused, while there is a build-up of capacity within the public sector that in many cases also contributes to greater costs. I'm glad this has been recorded. There is a point on which there is a reasonable consensus in the industry that represents the offer outside the public domain. The example of the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease is a good example. What I'm referring to here is as far as I've understood, in line with what management means. It's very important to go into it. I hope that there will be an interaction between the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Trade, so that we can get more for the money that has been put into the important action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e1004	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2787]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e1020	I want to start by thanking the employees of the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, who have enthusiastically shown the financial committee's members the results of the work and the importance of having this scheme. The government has submitted a proposal aimed at doubling the framework of commitments and policies given by GIEK, from DKK 2.5 billion to NOK 5 billion. Then one can ask – rightly, perhaps – if one needs more guarantees in a labour market as under pressure as it is today. To that end, the scheme is set up to relieve local and regional banks and secure jobs in the future. Enlargement will help to secure funding in time, in the coming years, and will therefore not help to increase the pressure on the economy today. It is important for the industry that uses the scheme – although it has enough to do today, and it is a good thing – that today one can sign contracts for 2008 and 2009, in order to avoid the wave valleys that would otherwise have come into the industry. Because when someone who is going to build a boat does not get the contract because the funding is not in place, you go elsewhere to build it. This option is that enterprises lose the job opportunities offered by a scheme that allows them to obtain funding. The background to the enlargement we are adopting today is that one will help to achieve a more balanced market within this industry, and one will release the major wave valleys that would otherwise come. Finally, I would also like to thank the opposition for the cooperation and for our unanimous attitude, and for the full support of the Government for its active enterprise policy from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e1033	The Guarantee Institute for the purpose of export credit is, of course, to relieve risks, so that the capacity of private banks to offer construction loans to the yards increases. As the rapporteur said, today the courts have full order books, while the yard industry is a sector vulnerable to international economic conditions. The situation is that larger yards do not have the same need for this credit, because they have easier financing opportunities through large banks in Norway and abroad. The contracts that will enjoy the orders are in time. There are issues about securing order mass for the coming years. I just want to stress the need for the balancing of economic fluctuations. Therefore, today’s prospects for the yard industry are such that one does not need to realise the increased guarantee framework now. But the increased warranty framework is a better tool to then meet what may be gloomy prospects. So, it's a wise move that we are now making a forward-looking decision that allows for a greater extent of bridging the economic cycle. But per year. Today, the order situation is such that it is not necessary to implement the measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e1044	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e1057	Before we go to voting, the President will present two requests for leave: from the representative of Heidi Sørensen on maternity leave for the period from 28 April to 4 May from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo on maternity leave for the period from 5 May to the end of the spring session of the Stortinge On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Saxi, is hereby invited to meet under the authority of the representative Olav Gunnar Ballos.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e1086	The increase shall now be added to the case No. One, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e1105	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e1113	During the debate, Gjermund Hagesetter has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «As a follow-up to the IA Agreement, the Government requests, with effect from 1 July 2007 at the latest, to submit proposals for amendments to the Tax Act §5-15, in order to provide for tax exemptions for the coverage by employers of the costs of treatment of employees under sickness and of treatment insurance.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26.ana.ud1896e1176	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
