ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e79	The called alternates, for West Agder County Ivar Hognestad and for More and Romesdal County Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, have taken their seats. The President will propose that Mr Odelstinget deal with the supplementary agenda after the ordinary agenda. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e103	I am referring to the fact that in a letter dated 13 March 2007 to Stortinget, Stortinget’s Ombudsman has submitted proposals to amend Section 3 of the Stortinget Ombudsman’s Act for the administration. The background for this is, among other things, a request from the Council of Europe for the follow-up to judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, EMD. The Ombudsman points out that the main responsibility for implementing the judgments of the Court of Justice against Norway lies with the administration, and that monitoring and monitoring of the follow-up of judges from the EMD by the Norwegian authorities must therefore be said to be within the Ombudsman’s remit. The Committee agrees and notes that, in its letter, the Ombudsman argues that such control already falls to the Ombudsman and that, therefore, amendments to the current law and instructions are not strictly required, but that further clarification and harmonisation of wording may be desirable. The Committee also points out that it is natural for the Ombudsman to give status to the implementation of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in the Norwegian administration in its annual communication to the Stortinget. Norway is probably the country where this may be least necessary. And let me add: if all the countries of the 47 members of the Council of Europe had been equally good in the follow-up to decisions in the Court of Justice, then much would have looked better in our part of the world. But it is not up to this odelsting to decide. I then show that it is a unanimous attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e118	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e134	As a matter of fact, in the context of the revised budget, Odelstinget should make a few changes to the tax regime for 2007. The main political issue in the Inst. O. No 80 is that it will be legal to re-deliver the full tax lists. The main reason why the majority of the Committee on Finance is in favour of such a scheme is the desire to strengthen the press's ability to hold a critical debate on fiscal matters. This is in line with the wishes of the press organisations. In 2004, the Government of Bondevik received a majority in the Stortinget for restrictions on the regulatory framework for the publication of the tax lists. The current government proposal essentially refers to the system before 2004. Transparency around tax lists has traditions in Norway as far back as 1863. The majority believe that transparency around the tax lists is a form of community control with the authorities contributing to public debate on tax rules, in particular if there is a major difference between fiscal conditions and the world of reality. Information on income and tax conditions is important in the societal debate. This change will improve the ability of the press to focus its attention on unfortunate differences and developments in society. Prior to the amendment of the law in spring 2004, full tax lists were also provided to non-governmental organisations. This will not be reintroduced. Nor will it be the case that individuals are given full tax lists. However, postal code and postal address information will be part of the tax lists. The data supervision is critical to the publication of the tax lists in this way. They justify this with regard to privacy. Moreover, following the presentation of the Government's draft revised budget, they have questioned the role they are intended to play in the supervision of how the press is to use the information. The majority of the Committee of Finance considers that the balance between freedom of expression and a socially critical debate prevails in the interests of privacy in this matter. But we have found reason to state in the preamble that the Data Protection Authority should be careful to use its control powers in relation to relations related to journalism, artistic or literary activities. I hope that the Data Protection Authority will see this as a clarification of how they will take care of their control task. From 1 July, the Act on the taxation of artists will be tightened up. There's a change that I guess will be seen as fair by the even taxpayer. Foreign artists and sportsmen moving to Norway will be taxed at the general, progressive rates of income earned in Norway the year before they settled in Norway. So far, this group has had a tax rate of 15 pst. until they have resided in Norway for tax purposes. This has led to undesirable adjustments, which will now no longer be possible. False brands, i.e. pirate copies, is a growing problem. As globalisation progresses, brand copying has increased sharply. Many OECD countries, including Norway, are very vulnerable to piracy. A Norwegian furniture manufacturer had the idea and took patents on the Tripp Trapp chair for young children – a sales success, but new copies of that chair are constantly appearing. So the ideas must be protected. Since we do not have the power to compete on production prices with low-cost countries, innovation is the area where Norway and other well-developed countries have a high potential for growth and development. And with innovation, in this context, I also mean ideas, design, inventions, art and culture, and for example. music. Effective protection of this is essential. In the fight against this form of theft, Customs has had limited instruments. Under today's rules, the Customs Authority may not notify the rightholder or withhold goods which they suspect would lead to an infringement of intellectual property rights. This is now changed by the fact that the Customs Authority can both notify the rightholder and withhold goods that are suspected of being pirated, for up to five days. In March, the government parties signed an agreement with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left to follow up the 2005 pension agreement. As part of the contract, a new tax beneficiary individual pension scheme shall be in place. The design of this scheme is now to be explored. It shall then be presented in the autumn of 2008, with effect from the same year. The tax regime for the new scheme should be the same as it was for the individual pension agreements that were in place until spring 2006, known as IPA. An annual deduction from general income shall be granted for annual payments of up to NOK 15 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e162	The case spokesperson has done well for most of the areas in this setting, so I want to comment on this in general. Taxes and charges are an important and priority area for the Progress Party. We're busy with two things: that we're going to get a simpler tax system, and that we're going to get a lower tax level. Norway is a small country. We have large distances, both in the country and to our markets, and we have a high pay level. Therefore, we believe that it is important that we do not have higher taxes and taxes than our competitors, as we have today, but on the contrary that we get the tax and tax pressure down, so that it becomes more profitable to produce goods and services in Norway. It's clear that in the situation that we're currently experiencing, with a recession, this is an argument that might not have the big impact. But the point is that it is important to think in the long term and look forward, so that we can maintain jobs and develop jobs for the future. Business taxes are important to make it more attractive to invest in Norway, for example. can improve depreciation rates. It will also ensure jobs in Norway. Tax relief on employee income results in a more profitable working environment. The central statistical agency has established that the impact is greatest in terms of lower incomes and intermediate incomes. It also helps to ensure that wage-earners increase purchasing power, without one being dependent on large gross supplements in wages and salaries. Tax relief will thus result in higher value creation. The loss of public tax revenue will be reduced as the years go by, and the creation of value increases in relation to the absence of tax relief. In NOW 1997:27, cost-benefit analyses, it is estimated that the average cost to society is 20 øre to finance a tax of 1 DKK. That means the state loses 20 pst. by what taxpayers are charged. Therefore, the vast majority of taxes are socially unprofitable. The Minister of Finance has also confirmed that there is no new information to change the commitments underpinned in NOU 1997:27. It is therefore important to stress that tax and tax incentives increase value creation and ensure long-term well-being. Since this is only a revised national budget, there are not many changes in the tax area of this estrangement proposition, but there are some. The only thing is what the case spokesperson was about – but I have a opposite angle – and that concerns the publication of the tax lists. The Progress Party disagrees with the proposal to extend the rules on the publication of the tax lists. We mean that publishing the tax lists has gotten the character of being pure entertainment. We are therefore opposed to extending public disclosure further, by giving the press full access to electronic tax lists, and by including postal code numbers in the tax lists. We fear that this extension will lead to a look-up of the type ‘The Poorest Street in Fredrikstad’ and a similar look-up, which can be very stressful for the individual. None of those who bid there felt poor before they found out that they were – according to the newspaper. It was stressful, especially for the children who offered there. We don't want that kind of journalism. Therefore, we do not want to go in for the extension proposed by the government party and government. There are also some changes in VAT legislation. The major change in the scope of the ‘culture exemption’, or whether striptease should be subject to VAT, as proposed. We haven't engaged so much in this matter. We find that not so many hearing aids have it either, perhaps for natural reasons. We have asked some clarification questions, and we argued that this change leads to simplifications and not more bureaucracy to enforce these rules. The government raises a limitation problem so that views such as: ‘In blank brass’ shall not be subject to VAT, whereas views such as: The organizers of Chippendale must be subject to VAT. We hope that this limitation issue does not lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. No one's going to be interested in that. Otherwise, the Progress Party has taken the view that this is a revision of the budget, and has therefore, in relation to the proposals that have been put forward, largely referred to our alternative state budget for 2007 and the proposals that we are making there. This applies to both tax deductions on gifts to voluntary organisations, tax deductions on employers' health costs, reduction of inheritance fees, depreciation rates for machines, housing savings for young people and increases in fisher’s deductions – all of which are the subject of other parties in the election, but which we have dealt with in our ordinary state budget for 2007, and which I do not find any reason to repeat here. On the other hand, when it applies to IPA, we refer to our representative proposal and also propose that the amount of savings be raised to 1 G. We think that's important. Especially at a time when there is less saving in the population, it is important that we stimulate more saving. So it's going to have to be 1 G. Finally, I would like to make the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, either alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e194	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e197	Taxes and taxes are key instruments to promote value creation. That value creation is once again the basis for our well-being through tax revenues for businesses and employees. There is a simple context that has been clearly visible in recent years, where tax revenue has flowed across both the state and Norwegian municipalities. The reason is, of course, the good times for Norwegian business and the high level of employment. However, this relationship is not simpler than being often challenged by opponents, where we can get the impression that it is the use of resources that creates well-being and not the creation of values. As a result of this small short-term closure, the Minister of Finance has spent his first two years in introducing a number of tax incentives to business, and tightening up the value of shares, and there has been insufficient regulation of top tax rates, a reversal of the relief of the inheritance tax for family-owned enterprises and proposals for increased depreciation rates promoted by the Bondevik II Government in its last budget. In addition, there have been restrictions on the tax FUNN scheme, which are very important, and which are reflected in the range of lack of commitment to research and development during this government. The government is doing little on the tax side in the revised budget – fortunately. The main purpose of the Government is to facilitate the publication of the tax lists by the media of the harvest. I note that in one of the other very few remarks made by the government parties during this budgetary procedure overall, it is said that the publication will strengthen the debate on the tax system and the link between financial capacity and taxation. However, the debate on financial capacity and taxation has taken the government parties too far, and the conclusion has been drawn. I perceived that they took it in the election campaign in 2005 when they produced growth-promoting tax incentives for business and employment as tax incentives to the rich. The Soria Moria statement then concluded with a fairer distribution of income. The debate on the level and distribution of taxes is important. But contributing to a wider publication of tax lists, with undecided and provisional figures, is hardly a major contribution to this fair distribution. In fact, the tax increases that have been carried out so far have affected business, private ownership and, in particular, people with very common incomes. The differences have become larger, not smaller. Poverty is increasing instead of being abolished. In the meantime, the government is concerned about how the media should get the best possible access to people's tax lists. It appears to be intertwined with the range of tax measures taken by this government that are arbitrarily and often socially wrong, while differences only increase. In contrast to the Government, the Right promotes more proposals for stimulating tax measures in this position, and several of these are in common with the other opposition parties. This applies primarily to tax deductions for individual pension savings, where we want to reintroduce the scheme as it was before the Government overnight cancelled the entire revised budget last year and made Norway a foreign country in Europe in terms of stimulating saving. In our economic situation, this saving could have helped to dampen the pressure on private consumption and perhaps shifted us to some improved savings, where we have now been on the negative for a few quarters. We therefore propose to reintroduce the individual pension saving scheme and also the individual annuity saving scheme. In addition, we propose to increase the rates of Housing Saving for Young People, perhaps one of the very best savings measures to be taken, especially in a housing market that is very, very difficult for young people. Another of the many neglected areas of the Government relates to the labour force situation, where there is no particular offensive. The right has several proposals on this front in the budget as a whole, and in this setting we propose to reintroduce tax exemptions for employers’ paid sickness costs and treatment insurance – which can shorten the queues and get the people we sorely need back to work faster. We also want to improve the recruitment of the fishing industry by significantly increasing the fishing deduction. It compensates for competition from the net pay scheme and not least for the impairment of profitability. Finally, only two words about research, once again, and the requirement of self-declaration for research institutes, which seems to run a little bit of their own way in the external levels of the tax haven and the principle of equality. There will never be any tax proceeds of this importance. It has been answered by the Minister of Finance himself during the proceedings. The only thing is that it's going to be a huge extra job. I think there are a lot of other tax-related tasks that are more important than imposing extra time on research, which has already been restricted in budgets. I believe that the proposal we are in favour of legislating tax exemptions for research institutes is a very necessary proposal. A total accumulation should have ended up in this proposal as a summer greeting to Norwegian research communities. I am thus addressing the proposals that the Right promotes either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e216	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e219	I don't know what kind of world the representative Roar Flåthen See later comments are in when he says we're not betting on research. It is true that we are in fourth place in the OECD area in terms of public spending on research. In Norway, the fact that research rates are lower than those of many other countries is due, among other things, to the fact that it is not the case that the industry in Norway is paying less attention to research than is the case in many other countries. that we have a completely different nutritional composition than that of a very large number of other countries. We're pretty close in many ways, if we take into account the nutritional composition we have in Norway. But that doesn't mean that the government is satisfied, and we've said that continuing to invest in research is important. The fourth place in the OECD area is not exactly the bottom line, to put it mildly, and we are far above what the previous government was up to. I don't know if it's the way the Right Representative goes or just keeps his eye on every time there's reports coming up that show how the distribution has gone in the direction of both workers and people who've been doing money. I don't know if he's come to realize that the last few weeks have found that the differences increased under the government that he represented in the period they were overthrown, the richest have received much more money. Among other things, it is such that the shareholders have strengthened their position, among other things. as a result of tax relief granted in the previous period. But these are well-known facts. If the representative fleet doesn't want to deal with them, he can keep talking the way he does from Stortingen's pulpit, but at least the rest of us have got it with us. I took the word to say something about the points contained in the proposed proposition. I think it is very good that the Minister of Finance and the Government do the job they do in relation to the revised national budget, and tackles very specific issues and clears up. I think people should notice what we're doing in relation to business, when we extend the deadline for the submission of compensation tasks for the third period to August 20. It's a friendly gesture that makes life easier compared to the summer settlement for people. We do a job in relation to making sure that we create more publicity about taxes and taxes. The publication of the tax lists leads to a better debate. The example drawn by the representative Gjermund Hagesetter tells of the poorest street in the city. I think it's very nice that people like, for example, living in Oslo, can see where those who have dealt with money, live, and see what kind of values are actually found here in society, and how these values have been distributed in the last 20 years. I think it's okay for people to know that there are differences in living conditions. If you uncouple living conditions differences from tax income, I think you're part of covering up what reality is like. I believe that it is good that we get the publication of tax lists to which the government is adding, which we are adopting today. So to maybe a little sore toe for the mountain people who thought it was fun that Eirik Bakke came to Firen. With the new tax haven we're introducing in relation to artists, he's just going to be one of those that's being hit, and I think that's absolutely right. The developments we've had in football and some other places in relation to artist taxes, I think it's quite appropriate that the government and the finance minister have cleaned up. I think it's great that it's coming as soon as it actually does. As far as VAT is concerned in relation to striptease, the real representative Gjermund Hageseter himself has argued well why the government is introducing it and getting it in place, as we are doing here. Otherwise, there are minor changes here and more likely to come back to us in the debate on the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e239	Then the President will open the door to a change of lines. The President proposes that there should be three lines of reply. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e244	The representative, Holmås, says that it is very important to get an extension of the rules on publishing the tax lists to put the search light at the living conditions level in the various parts of Oslo. So it's also so that this can be broken down to the individual street. That's what he thinks is quite fine. What is also the result of this is a look-up of the type "The Poorest Street in Fredrikstad". One also receives such estimates that school pupils down to the age of 15 to 16 have an overview of the income of parents for the different middle-aged habits in the class. Then my question is: does the representative Holmås think that it is also possible that children are being bullied at school because there has been a suggestion that they live in the poorest street in the city, or that the students have found out that they are the children of the poorest parents in the class?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e253	No, of course, I don't think it's okay that students get bullied at school, either way. But I think it's good that we become aware of the class differences that actually exist here. I think putting living conditions and income inequalities in focus is one of the things that actually makes politicians get involved in things. Take, for example: the formidable investment that we had in the Middle East of Oslo, both in relation to urban renewal and in relation to the cancellation of debt in connection with urban renewal, and not least the living conditions commitment that we had there. I believe that such kinds of publications, both of living conditions and income inequalities, help to raise awareness of both politicians and people living in different parts of a city like Oslo, as to the extent to which the differences in income and wealth actually are. I think that's good, and it'll help promote the social debate if we publish tax lists the way we do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e264	It was almost too big a fit for me when the representative Holmås called our colleague in the finance committee Svein Fleet for Roar Flåthen. I could use the whole line on it, but I have at least recorded that also Roar Flåthen believes that the government is paying too little on research. That's what my reply is about. That the appropriations are too small, I don't need to characterize, because the government itself has done so through the SV's own research minister, who called it a break. I record that this piece of rest continues in the revised national budget – that is it. It is indisputable that the TaxFUNN scheme, which was just what was supposed to trigger research from business, was weakened by this government. In the setting we're dealing with now, you're not involved in exempting the research institutes from tax. The sum of this can send no other signal than that this government cares little or nothing about research. It also says the whole of Research Norway, when you travel around and visit them. Perhaps the representative Holmås would jeopardize himself a little bit in his use of words about the government's commitment to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e275	No, I actually don't. I don't see any reason to jerk myself off. We have had good debates on research and research development. I just think it's important when we're discussing research, and it's presented as if Norway is a retard and in jumbo space, that we make sure that we get some reality orientation here. When we're actually in fourth place in the OECD field in terms of public spending, I think it's important to point that out. Everyone at Stortinget agrees – and has decided – that we should bet on a stepping up of Research Norway. It's important considering what we're going to live on in the future. I think there's consensus in the Storting that it's important to prioritize this. So it's about making sure that the budgets that are coming are gradually escalating, and that we're constantly challenging business to bet on research itself. It is, of course, about tax arrangements and that kind of thing. We believed that we made some correct adjustments in the budget regarding the TaxFUNN scheme. It is about creating a business that is also focusing more on research, regardless of public support schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e286	Initially, I allow myself to say that I was more pleased with the previous LO manager than I am with him now. Then the confusion was not so great. Heikki Holmås has talked about the research effort of the Government, with which he is more than satisfied. I mentioned in my article the obligation to provide tax returns for research institutes, which obviously will not have any tax proceeds, but which will obviously contribute to a considerable amount of extra work by using resources in the research institutes, resources that – despite the fact that the research institutes are probably staffed with some of the better people we have in the whole country – may not have the most of them. A specific question to this effect: Does the representative Holmås have any thoughts about what the Government can do about this requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e297	No, at least I don't want to share my thoughts – I feel that I can't call the representative of Gerd-Liv Valla either – with the representative Fleet about that exactly today. For the time being, those things are in the mood, and what's in the case of the research institutes is going to be a matter that we're discussing, and we're going to see the consequences of in every way possible. Besides that, I don't have a comment on 'Fleet one'. [[tEt]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e302	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e305	From the Christian People's Party, I'll just make a few brief comments. To this end, with the research institutions, there is an additional aspect. If taxed, they may eventually have consequences for their ability to draw funds from the EU system, because they do not want to spend research funds on institutions that run the industry. I think the government should therefore take this quite seriously and actually end that part as soon as possible in the interests of Norwegian research. I hope I have some interest in that. So to the tax lists: when the representative Holmås argued for the Government's proposal for changes, it actually sounded as if it was not possible with today's system to get clarity on how much individuals pay in taxes. Or maybe you're more concerned about how much they don't pay in taxes, and which they should pay in taxes? But it's completely possible. Here it is about going to such an extension that the Data Protection Authority has also reacted. We fully agree with the Christian People's Party that we are going to have a live debate related to the tax system, but that we are going to get it on the basis of the annual media reviews of the tax lists, I am not so sure is the best starting point for a serious debate on the tax system. We believe that consideration of the public is well taken care of by today's system, and are voting against the Government's proposal at that point. Several have been involved – the rapporteur was also involved – in the agreement on individual pension savings. We are pleased that there will be an opportunity from the next year of income. Now, the legislation will be clearly so late in 2008 that it will not be so easy for many to go along with it, but we assume that legislation is being worked on as quickly as possible, so that it can be clear and have a real impact in 2008. I also refer to our proposal to increase the gift deduction. It is a scheme that favours voluntary Norway and should have increased. Then it has been quite interesting to read chapter 7, ‘Changes in the value added tax legislation’ in the case of striptease. There is no doubt that the Government is supported by the Christian People's Party. But it is also reassuring to be able to read that: ‘The form of the dress and the artistic quality of the performance would be irrelevant in the assessment of whether a show is covered by the change’. With the reassuring words from the department in this way we give our support to it. In the case of bureaucracy, which Hageseter was concerned about, it may well be that the need for bureaucracy in this regard is going to be going on some show at night to figure out these grey zones, which the department writes so clearly: ‘The Ministry considers that a closer delimitation of the scope of striptease will be determined by practice.’ Then I take up the Christian People's Party proposal, and what we have with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e333	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e336	As far as striptease is concerned, I think the representative of the Christian People's Party has sufficiently addressed it, so there's no need to elaborate on it. I think it was an accurate assessment of what we're facing of challenges there. Otherwise, these are tax changes in the revised national budget, and very much goes on personal taxation. Our personal taxation involves a high level of taxation, and I believe that it is a basis for us to constantly develop some simple sentences in terms of personal taxation, which are as valid today as before – sentences that ‘make your duty – require your right’, sentences that say that a person should base personal tax on the principle of ability, that is, progressive income tax, a tax on wealth when it exceeds a level where it is right to tax it, and a prudent tax on property by means of property taxation. It's when you have income to pay taxes, that you feel it's okay to pay taxes. It has general support, and it's going to be seen as fair. The central party has also agreed to the publication of the tax lists. That's a position we've had over time. Complete tax lists make the lists available to the press, and we agree that it will strengthen the critical debate on the tax system. There is a risk that the press will be able to use the tax lists in a way that may be unfortunate. I expect the press to use the Varsom poster at this point as at other points, and focus on what is the purpose, namely the critical debate on how the tax system works. In addition, a number of opposition proposals have been made during the treatment. We who belong to the government parties see no need to go into those proposals. We have submitted our proposals, but I would like to make some comments on the points. There are things that will come up again at a later time. In terms of the tax credit for gifts to non-governmental organisations, the Centre Party is for it, but to a limited extent – so we don't see any special reason to change it. Our main line is to stimulate voluntary organisations in other ways through the state budget. The point of relief from inheritance tax is a central point, and the Soria Moria Declaration states that a person should facilitate the generational shift in family holdings. That's a point that's being followed up. What is the central thing there is that there is an heir in connection with such a generation change, is operating capital. So capital is on the holding, and cannot be used for consumption – in the same way as private inheritance, regardless of enterprise. The proposal for a base deduction for sea-going traders is a central theme of any State budget, and it is important, on the part of the Centre Party, to provide equal treatment with employees entitled to a minimum deduction, which has been significantly increased in recent years. There's an absolute need to look at this. The technical way in which this should be done can be discussed to the greatest extent. Increased depreciation rate for machinery in balancing category d is a recurring point from the opposition. In the Central Party, we understand that, while we think it should be emphasized that we are faced with a means of operating where, in many cases, operating depreciation goes beyond current tax depreciation. It should be sought to have a correlation between tax and operating depreciation. Increases in housing saving for young people are, to a large extent, a timely measure that needs to stimulate the savings culture of young people. I expect that it is a proposal that the Government will come back to in the next state budget. Increased deduction from trade union quota: the opposition is against it. The government has a clear position, namely that it should be improved, thereby stimulating professional organisation and ensuring the relationship between the different interests of the world of work. The fishing deduction: the centre party has a great deal of understanding to look at it. It is an important fiscal instrument to ensure the recruitment of people to the fishing industry. In the end, only research incentives: from this pulpit, a lot of money is being said about research. It is said repeatedly that there is too little money, and it is very much a debate on different numbers. In the Centre Party, we see that discussion should be combined with much greater emphasis on quality in terms of requirements to ensure that research results are translated into new and more efficient products or services, i.e. rationalisation of research results in practical reality. Here we have a lot to pick up, and historically in Norway there are many good examples here. One of them is the cooperation between NTNU in Trondheim and the workshop industry in Sunnmøre, where one performs in a good way the interaction between research and practice, a mutual interaction between business and research efforts. I think this is an area where it should have been even more focused. It may be more important in many cases than the amount of research. This is a simple matter to change, while in other areas, cultural change is often needed to bring it about in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e367	The Christian People's Party and the Centre have often agreed on their views on fiscal policy towards smaller enterprises. The representative Lundteg evaluated some of the proposals that the opposition has made in this case and was partly positive in its reference. So my question to Lundtigen is: if he were to give priority to one fiscal measure to small businesses, what would he have prioritised?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e374	Of the proposals presented by the opposition today, the most central is the inheritance fee. There, the Government has clear wording in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is a central theme to ensure that the operating capital and equipment at all levels of the establishment have a good chance of continuing with new owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e380	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e383	In reality, the government proposes very few changes in tax legislation in the context of the revised national budget. What is proposed is largely of a technical nature, and will have little significance for the ordinary woman and man. This is both good and in and of itself less good. It is logical that there will be no major changes in the tax system of a budget revision. On the other hand, there are no signals at all about where the Government wants tax policy. I had e.g. expected that at a time when climate policy is the most important political challenge, we would have received a clearer signal from the Government that the way forward – especially in fiscal policy – is a shift from red to green taxation. I had expected the government to show the will to correct some of its own cuts or contractions that hit small businesses and research unnecessarily hard. And I expected that the government might make proposals that stimulated saving, when you're so worried that it's being saved too little, as expressed in the Stortinget yesterday. The Left supports all of the Government's proposals for changes to the tax system promoted in Ot.prp. No 61 for 2006-2007, with the exception of exempting the greenhouse industry from the CO2 tax on gas for heating. Me and the Left are generally sceptical about exemptions and reductions in environmental taxes, not least in terms of greenhouse gas emissions taxes. I am, as I said earlier, disappointed that the Government has not used the revised national budget to signal a stronger willingness to convert taxes and taxes in an environmentally friendly direction. Once the Government has ‘locked’ to the level of taxation from 2004, a tax shift from red to green tax is both reasonable and logical. Only the simple act of lifting exemptions — and reductions — for individual groups and individual industries for environmental taxes could release billions of dollars that can be used for targeted tax relief for citizens and businesses to stimulate the development of new and modern environmentally friendly technologies and behaviour. This is the direction I want, which is shown again in many of the proposals promoted by the Left, and which are supported by other parties in the setting we are dealing with today. For the Left, fiscal policy is also a key instrument in promoting business value creation. Unfortunately, the current government looks at this quite differently, and has spent its first few two years promoting a number of ‘targeted’ and, in the long run, harmful tax incentives to business. These include both restrictions on the asset valuation of shares, the reversal of inheritance tax relief for family-owned enterprises and the increase in depreciation rates promoted in the last budget of the Bondevik II government, and not least the constant tightening of the highly successful tax FUNN scheme, which contributes to something that we all agree on is a common objective: more research in general and more from business in particular. It is therefore quite incomprehensible to me that the government parties are still in rest mode and will not even support the Left's proposal to grant the research institutes a legal tax exemption. This is a proposal that has no notable proceeds effect, cf. responses from the Ministry of Finance to the Left, but which will free resources from labour-intensive administrative processes, which in turn could lead to more research and thus greater ability to achieve the Government's own political ambitions in this area. In fact, I don't understand that the government parties are against it. Another proposal that I also do not understand about the opposition of the government parties is the Left's proposal to give every self-employed person the right to a deduction in line with normal workers. Nor will this have all the world's economic consequences, but be a targeted simplification reform for many entrepreneurs who spend a lot of resources and much unnecessary time documenting a whole pile of small costs for office props, small trips, taxi trips, meeting service, etc. The government uses big words in party speeches in both research and simplification. When it comes to it seriously, it's a collective betrayal. Even small words are not used. In fact, the government parties do not at all argue why they are against the proposals in the position we are dealing with today. In the context of the review of the revised national budget discussed by the Stortinget on Friday, the Left supports proposals for tax changes within a revenue-neutral framework of approximately 400 million. kr. We have a clear profile towards a simpler, fairer and not least more environmentally friendly tax system. We increase taxes on environmentally hostile behaviour and provide relief to citizens and businesses that contribute to increased value creation, increased research and that also stimulate saving and environmentally friendly choices. In this setting, it is expressed through proposals to reintroduce tax credits for individual pension savings and individual annuities as of 1 July 2007. We propose, as mentioned earlier, the right to the deduction of self-employed workers and the statutory tax exemption for research institutes. We propose targeted measures for business by facilitating generation-change inheritance tax in enterprises, tax exemptions for employers’ coverage of sickness-related treatment costs, and changes in depreciation rates. In total, this will provide a tax system that stimulates what we want more of: jobs, technology development and research, and that punishes what we want less of: pollution and environmentally hostile behaviour. Finally, I want to address a point that goes beyond politics, at least the tax matters that we are dealing with now, and which I think is a fundamental issue. In the position we have to deal with Odelstinget now, and in what we will get when the rest of the revised national budget comes on Friday, there is incredibly little argument from the majority and government for the government's policy and against what are the alternatives. I would like to take this opportunity to encourage the parties of government to think carefully in future budgetary discussions if they do not think the parliament of the country is worth any argument. For me, it is absolutely crucial in a democracy, regardless of our disagreement on many issues, that arguments get counter-argument. In a situation where we have a majority government that can use its majority to get through their cases, they have a democratic duty to argue also in the Storting, and not only refer to what the Government has done. The representative, Lundtegen, said they didn't care about commenting on the opposition's proposals, because they had their own proposals. But this is a democracy. It is a parliament, and a parliament that meets arguments meets counter-argument. That's how we build society, and that's how we build democracy. This has obviously not been understood by the majority in this setting. I could pick up a lot of adrenaline to say what I really mean about this, but I think I would limit it to encouraging that in future positions the majority, and especially the majority, should spend time arguing. It may be pure arrogance that does, but I'm afraid you're unable to agree on what kind of arguments you're going to use. It would have been politically interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e408	Just a few comments. There are not many of the issues promoted by the Storting in this round, in which I need to go into more detail, because they are well-founded by the representatives of the government parties in the Financial Committee. That is not what the representative Sponheim suggests, that the representatives of the government parties in the financial committee abstain from all discussion, on the contrary, they have taken part in the debate and have given reasons for their views. This is not a comprehensive proposal for changes in the tax system, nor is it a tradition to propose major tax changes in the middle of a major year. That's why the little adjustments we've kept ourselves to are. I really just need one comment, and that's to what Lars Sponheim was dealing with in relation to what we call green tax exchange in the Soria Moria Declaration. So far from our government, we have proposed many changes that have made changes to the tax system in order to make it less profitable to pollute and more profitable to be environmentally aware of other impacts in the tax system. These are changes that are far more extensive than the changes that were made when the Left put in government together with the Right, and that we plan to continue with. Of course, when it does not appear in the context of the revised national budget, it is because we want to see this in a context. What we have presented so far, both in terms of NOx tax, CO2 tax on domestic use of gas, changes in the car tax system, etc., are proposals that go in that direction and that have as their heading: green tax exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e420	The president assumed that Lars Sponheim's representative was not making any proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e423	The President is absolutely right. If the President gives me the opportunity to promote the proposal from here, I will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e430	The representative Lars Sponheim has drawn up the proposal from the Left. No more people have asked for the floor. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e448	: Internal pricing has become one of the most important international tax issues in recent years – this is due to growth in world trade and increasing use of group formations. Internal pricing means the pricing of transactions between taxpayers linked to each other through different forms of community interest. The determination of internal prices is of great importance in terms of taxation, since the price fixed affects taxable profit. For example, the tax may be moved from one company to another by increasing or reducing the price of a good sold or a service provided between the companies. The OECD has long focused on internal pricing and has published internal pricing guidelines for multinationals and tax authorities. These have been translated into Norwegian. The starting point is that internal prices are to be determined for tax purposes as if the price were set between independent parties. In addition to providing guidance on the fixing of internal prices, the OECD also provides guidance on the information that the authorities should require in setting internal prices. In the process of internal pricing, our overall objective should be to secure the tax base in Norway through increased control and follow-up of the setting of internal prices. Therefore, the entire Committee agrees that the OECD Guidelines on Internal Pricing for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Authorities from 1995 are given a more formalised status as a legal source in Norwegian law. This is achieved by including a direct reference to the OECD guidelines in the Tax Act, highlighting the relevance of the guidelines in determining whether wealth or income has been reduced and in determining whether wealth or income is discretionary. The majority also want a duty to be imposed to ensure that the equality authorities can determine roughly which of the taxpayers’ internal price ratios should be examined. In addition to some identification information, summary information on the control exercised and the controlled transactions shall be provided. The task shall be carried out at the same time as the declaration or task of the company and shall replace the foreign service in force. The obligation to provide information shall cover transactions with related companies or devices. The definition of this can be found in the setting. In addition, it is proposed that the obligation of duty should apply to companies and entities resident in Norway which have a permanent establishment abroad and to foreign companies and entities which have a permanent establishment in Norway. The majority is in favour of a documentation obligation that will provide the basis for an assessment of whether prices and conditions are in line with what would have been established between independent parties. The obligation to document means that taxpayers are to draw up and keep records of how prices and conditions are set. The documentation shall be submitted only in accordance with the requirements of the Equation Authorities and within 45 days of the submission of such requirements. An exemption from this obligation is proposed for those who, together with related persons, have fewer than 250 employees and either have a sales income of less than 400 million. kr or a balance sheet total of less than 350 million. kr. However, the exemption shall not apply to companies which are resident in a country from which Norway is not required to provide tax information, subject to a tax agreement or other international agreement. Nor shall the exemption apply to companies or devices subject to a special taxation obligation under the Petroleum Taxation Act. The consultation round has shown that there is a broad consensus on the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e474	The right also agrees that the OECD guidelines will gain enhanced status in Norwegian law by anchoring them in the tax laws, even if these guidelines are also addressed today. Our comments on the proposal are more, including: that you should be careful to extend the regulatory home to change something that is now actually enshrined in the law. We also believe that more comprehensive tasks and documentation requirements have been proposed and guidelines have been drawn up in areas where the OECD has not yet concluded, among others. as in the distinction between fixed operating locations and head office, which will be very important for many enterprises. The obligation to provide information and documentation between resident companies serves initially neither tax nor other purposes as long as it does not occur between companies subject to special taxation and with special tax rates. For its part, Sweden and Finland have only passed laws on cross-border transactions. This could significantly reduce the form field and red tape with us, and it would nevertheless be compatible with EEA legislation. The obligation to carry out own-checked transactions also seems more burdensome than necessary for control purposes. Enterprises have a general obligation to provide information where the authorities can obtain the information they want or need. Documentation work will be complicated, resource- and cost-intensive, unquestionably. Therefore, we propose a modified deadline for submission of documentation required by the authorities, which is set at 60 days. Documentation becomes complex, and it will be highly discretionary — and, perhaps most importantly, whether the documentation obligation is fulfilled or not. Therefore, we believe that sanctions such as discretionary equality and the loss of rights of appeal in relation to what should be judged should have been severally more nuanced. This has also been addressed by a number of hearing bodies, which unfortunately have spoken for deaf ears. Although it is said that the regulations should detail this, there is little predictability when the sanctions are already in the law. Finally, I have a small comment on the Soria Moria declaration, because the statement mentions internal pricing. It states that a review of the internal pricing legislation is part of the fight against tax evasion. I am glad that the bill does not explicitly write that that is what is intended. It's good to make laws and regulations that are general and that actually take into account that most businesses, most of the business world, will do things right. That's why it's good that exactly this is toned down somewhat. But it could have been toned down even a little bit more by making it a little bit easier for the businesses. Finally, I address the proposal that we – along with an entire opposition – have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e491	The representative of the Svein Fleet has drawn up the proposal to which he referred. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 788]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e509	This setting applies to the draft law in Ot.prp. No 59 on the amendments to the VAT law relating to the deduction and adjustment of VAT on capital goods. The provision of withdrawals and adjustments shall contribute to a competitively neutral value added system and, as far as possible, equal to the tax burden on all domestic consumption of taxable goods and services. At the same time, the legislation should not be unnecessarily complicated or give rise to adverse thresholds or adjustments to charges. These considerations have been sought in the legislative proposal. Overall, it is assumed that the legislative proposal will have a neutral impact on competition. The proposal will also essentially imply that the legislation in this area will be equivalent to that in our nearest neighbouring country. The Committee agrees with the legislative proposal, but a minority in the Committee has proposed some amendments relating to the adjustment provisions referred to in paragraph 3 of my contribution. Paragraph 1 applies to the right of deduction as a condition of excise duty. It is proposed to calculate value added tax only in so far as the value added tax received in the acquisition or manufacture of the product has conferred a right of deduction. Such a condition will serve the purpose behind the withdrawal provisions to equalise different forms of consumption. However, that condition shall apply only to the withdrawal of goods and not to the withdrawal of services. Point 2 refers to off-takes of services. In accordance with the law in force, it is proposed that, in the case of the withdrawal of services from taxable activities for private use, VAT should be calculated. However, the intention behind the withdrawal provisions implies that this withdrawal obligation must be limited to purely private purposes. The limit to private tasks may be difficult to draw, and it is not appropriate to further regulate this limit. Instead, some guidance is given as to what can be understood by this expression. In the case of labour withdrawals from activities, it is proposed that VAT cannot be calculated if the activities carried out are not of the same nature as the activities which are traded, produced or recovered internally in the activities subject to taxation. Nor is it proposed to impose an obligation to calculate VAT on the temporary use of operating resources from the establishment. The fact that such a tax would be in line with the principles on which the VAT system is based has led to the conclusion, in the interests of simplification, that such a use should nevertheless not trigger an excise value added tax. It is proposed to remove the obligation to calculate VAT on the withdrawal of services to a non-taxable part of the activity. It is proposed to extend the current exemption from the charging of services to charitable and non-profit institutions and organisations. Paragraph 3 applies to general provisions on adjustments to the VAT input tax on capital goods. General provisions are proposed to adjust the value added tax input tax and the deduction of capital goods. In this context, capital goods are real estate and operating assets above a certain value. The new adjustment provisions will replace existing provisions on the recovery of deductible VAT, but to a large extent represent something new. A new element of these provisions will be that the input VAT on capital goods will be adjusted up or down, as opposed to the return provisions that only reduce the deduction. The purpose of such adjustment provisions for capital goods is that the value added tax calculation should more closely reflect the real conditions over time, both actual and economic, of the individual charging entity. In addition, provisions for adjusting the deduction of capital goods would offset tax adjustments. Within the EU, all countries are obliged to have such adjustment provisions for capital goods. The proposal will therefore both address a gap in our VAT legislation and, at the same time, provide equivalent provisions in Norway as in our neighbouring country. The majority of the Committee, the governmental parties, subscribe to the Government's proposal as a whole, while a minority oppose the proposal on some points: The minority proposes to extend the situations to trigger the adjustment of input VAT to include cases where the obligation to pay a business and hence the right to deduct arise as a result of a legislative change. The minority also proposes that the adjustment period for real estate should be five years and not ten years, as proposed. Furthermore, the minority suggests that the exemption scheme in force in relation to the current return provisions of the VAT Act § 21, third and fourth paragraphs, be continued. Finally, the minority proposes that the adjustment provisions enter into force with effect for new buildings etc. where the contract has been concluded after 1 January 2008 and not newly built, etc. which is deemed to have been completed after that date.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e539	In dealing with the matter, I asked the Minister of Finance two written questions. That's question No. 1095, where it is shown that Norway implements the general turnover value as a VAT base on withdrawals, while the EU has a cost price. They use non-relative input food, in which case the market price applies. On the other hand, we use a proposed selling price, in other words a discretionary added value created at the point of sale. Unfortunately, the actual differences to which the question refers have not been referred by the Minister of Finance. Instead, it appears that the new adjustment rules are purely EU-wide. They're not. So to question number. 1094. It is shown by Ot.prp. No 17 from 1968-69 that the right of deduction for an inward charge is a prerequisite for the withdrawal of both goods and services. Output requires input. There is a judgment against Actif Hotel in Ål in Hallingdal, which had to pay tax revenues on furniture they had not been deducted from in connection with their change of company form. Unfortunately, this is a practice in Norway. The fact that the EU assumes a deduction from the in-depth charge on the withdrawal of services is doubtful. In practice, EU countries do not calculate off-takes of services other than construction services and related services because there is usually so little input tax deducted, for example. in connection with a law firm. Thus, the exclusion calculation is deemed not to have any purpose. Withdrawals in the EU are never relevant without deduction of input VAT, and the EU is more concerned with practical rules – this is taken from a Dutch professor who sneezes under Norwegian VAT rules, it is said. He goes on to say: it's not VAT – and he's probably quite right. A closing comment. I hope it is possible to do something about the extraction basis. It is worth noting that consistent withdrawal rules are based on adjustments to the inward charge. The main change in my opinion is whether the basis of charges is set at cost in all cases other than off-takes to related persons — only where the general value for turnover should continue to apply. I then bring up all the proposals where the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e561	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has drawn up the proposals he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 790]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e579	The proposal of several representatives of the Progress Party is to abolish the property tax law of the municipalities. The proposers believe that property tax is an unfortunate form of double taxation that happens at random and unfairly. The proposers consider that the property tax should be abolished as soon as possible and preferably with effect from 1 January 2008. I expect that the proposers themselves will provide further justification for their proposal. The Committee, acting by a slightly different majority, does not address the proposals of the Progress Party. The government parties show briefly and well that they believe that the current property tax system works well, and refer to the changes made last year, and they are making every effort to say that this is a local tax, it should be so and that the legislation is now working well. Property taxes arouse strong emotions. It's probably one of the most important repetitions of the local election campaign. We've seen in this city that one of the largest parties, the Workers' Party, which has been a strong supporter of property taxes in the past, has chosen to promise voters that they will not impose property taxes if they get a majority at the time of the harvest. It's probably saying something about the tension in this form of taxation. While there is an unpopular tax among many, it is also likely that all public samples that have looked at this tax strongly recommend that it be increased. It's a little different for reasons, but it should be increased, and in particular it's shown that this is a tax that you can't get away from. If you have property, you know about it, and it's so easy to tax out of it. The same samples have shown that, in order to increase property taxes, they want to eliminate property taxes at the same time. The previous government, by a majority on the non-socialist side, so removed the tax on benefits, but decided that the municipal property tax should remain. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that there is a position that stands today, but we also believe that there is a basis for looking at an improvement in the law on property taxes, by introducing some proposals that better respect the social profile of today's law. The right-hand side is probably justifying its proposal. They are in principle opposed, but do not go in to liquidate the law as it now exists. The Christian People's Party and the Left are promoting three of the following proposals: firstly, we propose that the tax base should have a bottom-up deduction, so that social considerations can be taken into account. Secondly, we propose that municipalities be given the opportunity to lay down general rules on depreciation or full exemption from property taxes, on grounds of special social considerations. This could be done, for example, by: is that a municipality must be allowed to say that those who have a minimum pension should not pay property taxes. Thirdly, we suggest that the Government assess how an extended access for municipalities to differentiate the output of property taxes can occur. There may be different categories of property, such as housing, leisure property, power plants and other commercial property, so that municipalities can take a greater view of what is reasonable on the basis of local circumstances. This will not be the last debate we have on property taxes. There is still a proposal for consideration in the Committee on the so-called cab tax. Some will absolutely claim that it is not, but that means that we are having a renewed debate on property taxes for the harvest. With this I recommend the Committee's recommendation and address the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e605	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e608	The majority of the Committee rejects this private proposal to repeal the Property Tax Act, which the representative Syversen had in mind. The reasons for the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party are as follows: Property tax is a municipal income source amounting to SEK 4.4 billion in 2006, estimated in the State budget. This means that if the property tax is removed, as the Progress Party wants, the revenues of municipalities will be reduced by DKK 4.4 billion. The consequences can be rapidly reduced in welfare services in municipalities. In the revised budget last year, an opening was adopted for municipalities to choose between issuing property taxes for the entire municipality, only within urban districts and/or on works and uses. The aim of this change was to eliminate unfair discrimination within the same municipality, eliminate legal ambiguity and increase the choice of municipalities. We believe it has done this with property taxes more fairly. It is therefore pointless to refer to parts of the property tax, as some do, as ‘house tax’. Municipalities may not print property taxes only for cabins or only in cabin areas. The choice is between the entire municipality or within the urban community. The municipality may also decide whether to have property taxes at all, the level at which they are to be applied and whether to allow for the differentiation of the rates. We believe that, through local democracy, the municipalities are to a large extent setting up property taxes so that they are seen as reasonable to the inhabitants. There are also municipalities which have introduced property taxes, where the political leadership and the majority have remained in the subsequent elections. So as unpopular in the different municipalities that some people are going to have, it's not. The previous justification for the property tax, that it should be a tax on water, sewerage and sewage services, fell away already when the current property tax law of 1975 was adopted. The opposition parties are divided into this case. Christian People's Party and Left reject, like the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party, the proposal. In addition, the Christian People's Party and the Left have some suggestions that I want to justify the views of the government parties. In the revised 2006 budget, the Government made some changes to property taxes. The Government then also announced that it intends to come back with an assessment of the exemption rules, the rate structure and the local authorities’ ability to differentiate the property tax for different tax items. Bottom deductions, social considerations in property taxes and differentiation, of which the Christian People's Party and the Left are occupied, and mentions in the setting, have a natural place on the basis of this in the alert assessment. At the same time, I believe that local politicians from all parties are committed to designing this tax in such a way that it seems fair to the citizens of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e621	Property taxes give money in the cash register. It can't be disputed. Many believe that the same is true of highway robbery, gross theft, and economic adultery. The fact that municipalities receive money from property taxes is not an argument to claim it. Everyone needs a place to live. Now it is true that a fixed address — at least one should have a fixed address — in Norway today to belong to society. Nevertheless, one must be taxed in order to have a roof over his head and his family. Since the dawn of time, humans have needed clothing, food, and shelter. What is community? Isn't that you and me? Is it best for the community that we are taxed until we die? Let me make it clear: ordinary people actually have expenses. They must have food. They're gonna have to wear clothes. They must have living quarters. To buy all of this, we need money. All the money is taxed when we earn it. All goods and services are also taxed by various taxes as we buy them. Houses must obviously also be taxed forever. Is it because it's a special luxury to have a roof over your head? I guess most people would rather say that it's a necessity. That's why there's a beloved extra income for the state and the municipality, a cost you don't get away with. Municipal taxes are subject to VAT, so the state takes its share here as well. The property tax, on the other hand, is not subject to VAT – I am still saying. I'm sure it'll come. The thing is, the government encourages municipalities to collect property taxes. The municipalities that take the initiative to thin their inhabitants as best they can, often get a bonus from the county in terms of beauty. Some countrymen around, for example. in Hordaland, some municipalities do not receive discretionary means until they have introduced property taxes. The motive is, of course, that the more money the municipalities get themselves, the less pressure is on the government to give money to municipal budgets. Property tax is a tax on money that is already taxed two and three times. We need, as I said, a roof over our heads. The property tax is extra heavy for pensioners, social security and low pay. It is clear that there is a policy in place in which economically weak groups must pledge to become ‘slaves’ in the rental market. If an elderly person has a fortune, it is stolen when staying in an old home. Older people are particularly hit hard. They've been paying on their property every year. Then perhaps the one, statistically often the man dies, and the widow is left in the house that has been their home for many years, and as they have built up. Today’s elderly women are often left as minimum pensioners. A minimum pension is scarce in the high-cost country of Norway. Our economic drive has forgotten those who built the country. This is a shame. When you do otherwise, property tax is at the top of everything salt in the wound. The property tax is unfair. You're already taxing taxed funds, as I was in the past, and they all hit very hard, not least those that have little from before. It may seem like there's some kind of biblical justice in this. I want to call this shameful. It is shameful that a normal minimum pensioner here in the country is taxed in percentages far higher than a shipowner. It's a shame, because these charges steal the direct quality of life from the one who has to spin and save to make a living. It is shameful, because as the oil fund grows, all political will is concentrated on finding new taxes to skin those who have it tough, even more so. I've seen older people cry over taxed property. Is this for the good of the community? Is this the price we have to pay? What's the next increase going to be? Where does the pain of our money - watching government go? I don't think it exists. It seems that government policies don't think about everyone, but they're thinking about getting the budget into port – at least what it's going to cost. Is it not called ‘tax on the benefit of living in owner-occupied dwellings’? We've come there in this country that it's having a dwelling, a job and an average income are considered to be luxury. We pay tolls to drive on a road on which we have already paid tolls to drive on, with tyres for which we have already paid environmental taxes. We are sitting in a car we have already paid a fee for, which goes on petrol or diesel that we already have a fee on. The more you think about it, the more absurd it becomes. At Oslo Arbeiderparti's programme meeting, the main focus was whether or not the Workers' Party would impose property taxes. And as one of the speakers after the meeting said, for those of us who were in a position when the proposal was up last, it is a pleasure to hear that the Workers' Party does not go in for property taxes in Oslo if we win the election. This is a burden on the parties around the country. From the annual meeting of the Re Arbeiderparte on 15 February this year, the following opinion was delivered: «Re Workers' Party will not impose property taxes in the coming period. We assume that the red-green government will ensure that the local economy is so good that property tax is not applicable in Re." Nittedal Arbeiderpartie said the same thing before the last municipal elections, but they didn't keep their word. The introduction of property taxes despite their choice not to introduce them. So many around the country feel that a voice to the Workers' Party is a voice to introduce property taxes around the municipalities. I would like to take up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e654	The representative used the topic ‘Land Road Robbery’ and ‘Economic Adultery’. The president assumed that the representative did not use these outlines to characterise property taxes, because in that case the president would charge it as a non-parliamentary use of words. The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e665	In our country, owning a dwelling is a very central part of our well-being. Therefore, the Right considers that housing – not least as part of the welfare increase – should be protected from taxation. Therefore, we also removed when we were in government, the benefit tax on dwellings and leisure homes. There have already been some rematches in tax policy, but I still have a good thing to hear someone say a single word about reintroducing the benefit tax. Therefore, the Government has chosen other ways to increase the tax on a central well-being property such as house and home. It has already become an annual regularity to increase the value of the equation – an increase that we have gone against and will go against. In addition, an extended property tax has been opened, which can be issued by municipalities. Property taxes have very poor distribution effects. It affects arbitrarily, often unsocially and unfairly, not taking into account the ability to pay and the liquid income and wealth ratios. It may affect minimum pensioners with high property values and low incomes, and not least young people in the start-up phase with high debt and high interest costs. Property tax expansion also makes the Norwegian cabin dream more unattainable for more and more reserved for the rich. No one has any particular doubts about who will become the next owner of the family cabin on the shores of the Vestfold archipelago – and to some extent elsewhere in the country, perhaps less attractive than the Vestfold archipelago – when annual current tax expenditures are increased. Having something valuable doesn't mean you're rich. It can actually be the opposite, and not everyone is ready to realize any material value. Therefore, the Right is strongly opposed to the extension of property tax options introduced by the Red-Greens. It may result in a significant extension of the tax on recreational property and notices have already been received from several cabin municipalities that it is being introduced or planned to be introduced. It is also a democratic problem, because the reason is to some extent the increased costs for the municipalities that tenants bring with them, while the tenants, on their part, have no opportunity to say what they think about this in local elections, when they are without voting rights. In addition, random taxation is a problem, ranging from full market assessment to more diabolical, discretionary and some random taxation. It's rare to hear people from government parties talk about freedom of choice. But the comments, as well as the comments of the Workers' Party representative, talk about some of the reasons for property tax change being increased freedom of choice. Yes, it must be for the municipalities to print more taxes, hardly for the inhabitants, who rather get their freedom of choice restricted by higher taxes. What is referred to in the note as ‘absorbing unfair discrimination’ is simply a short and quite different way of saying that it is intended to extend taxation. The rapporteur announced a new debate on this matter. I'm sure I'll be there. The right for its part is in principle against property taxes. We've programmed it, and we're going to work to reduce or eliminate the tax in the municipalities that have it. In this respect, we have promoted a separate document No. 8 proposals for the liquidation of the so-called cab tax, i.e. this last extension, and – not least – limitations of the values, in the same way as the rule of exception already associated with normal equation values. This Document No The 8 proposal will come up in the Storting to the fall. In this regard, therefore, we stand on our own remarks, and of course we will not reject the proposal, but we have a separate proposal to attach to the protocol, which I am referring to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e691	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e694	In fact, I don't think that a representative of the party that has stood in front of something to fight for the shipowners in this country to have the lowest taxing of all of them in society, namely no tax, shall be the one standing here and saying that it is a shame that the minimum pensioners pay more in taxes than shipowners. It is completely unheard of, and I think, to be quite honest, that the representative of the Progress Party should go up and complain about that comparison in this context. The property tax has the potential to be one of the fairest taxes available, simply because nothing is more biased than property. It's just taking a walk with the trick. If you take the line number. 1 from one end to the other in Oslo, you see how distorted property is distributed. You can take it from one end, where you can see the largest houses of all, through the areas of the city where people live closely, and then across and through large areas of business. In Oslo, a property tax would operate in a deep fair way, simply because the people who would pay the least in property taxes are the people who don't have property. Coming up and saying that those people who don't have property would not benefit from the positive transfers that a property tax would mean is an incorrect description of the property tax. In Bergen, Bergen SV has made a choice to ensure that the property tax is extended to the parts of the area that our government has opened up for it to do so. Because it is deeply unfair that the people who live in the smallest apartments in Loddefjord pay more in taxes than the people who live in the biggest villas in Fana. It's deeply unfair that it's like that. This maintains the regime in Bergen – the Progress Party supports the rest of the urban government in Bergen to do just that. There is a deep unfair property tax that does not contribute to fair distribution. In Bergen, then, Bergen SV has chosen to make sure that the money that you get into extra property taxes is going to ensure better living conditions for those people who do not have housing today. Isn't that fair, I don't know. There's obviously a disagreement on the right-hand side about just this. Here in Oslo it is produced as if the property tax will primarily affect people who live. But that's wrong. Those who would pay the most property tax in Oslo are sole proprietors who own large commercial properties. It is said that it is unsocial that Olav Thon is going to pay some more property taxes, that he is going to pay property taxes to help increase the well-being and better care of the elderly, which the Progress Party has run here in the city, which has meant that we have fewer nursing homes today than we have had in the past. That we should use income from property taxes for traders to achieve a better well-being for the city’s inhabitants, the Progress Party therefore believes is ‘land road robbery’. It says something about being on a completely different planet than very, very many others. I think it's very good that we have the disagreement and division in the opposition that we have. I think in the same way as Marianne Aasen Agdestein that the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party in this context are things that we must take with us to the subsequent debate on property taxes and see it in a larger context. I think that's an important signal that Marianne Aasen Agdestein also gave. I have taken the right description of the cabin tax. I find it fascinating that one believes that the largest houses in the municipality of Bergen are to be described as cabins – well, it says something about what kind of view you have on cabin palaces. It is such that cabins located in urban strata in the municipality of Bergen, possibly in the municipalities of Oslo and other municipalities, can be taxed today, while the large villas cannot be taxed – now they can. I hear the Right calls them cabins. They say, "The more money you have, the bigger cabins you can afford. Finally, I would just like to say that if there had been any kind of consistency in the policy of the Progress Party, at the same time, there would have been a proposal to immediately increase the transfers to the municipalities by NOK 4.4 billion. They didn't, so the Progress Party didn't. The consequence of the fact that the Progress Party has not made a proposal of SEK 4.4 billion is that municipalities across the country, which currently has property taxes, will dramatically reduce their well-being. I think it's okay to go into a campaign where we can point to all those municipalities and say: Here the care of the elderly is going to get worse, here the child care coverage is going to get worse, here the school education is going to get worse, because the Progress Party comes up with an untapped proposal and just says that NOK 4.4 billion in welfare is going to go away. President, it was the Progress Party that used the description "Land Road Robbery"!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e715	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e719	Heikki Holmås does not deny himself. Now he says that property is divided differently in society. We have a finance minister, Kristin Halvorsen, who earlier said that wealth is unevenly distributed. Of course it is unevenly distributed. How is it distributed differently? There are no politicians who have said you should have that property, and you should have that property. It is not a political decision that says it. It's like people work and labor, and then they build up a fortune, or they work and labor and buy themselves a house. Does the representative Holmås think that absolutely equal is fair? When is it fair for the representative Holmås? Is it when it's please, please, please, little differences, so that you don't see the differences? And why is it more fairer than people struggling and getting a living and living in that dwelling, or people struggling and working up a fortune? Then you – the representative Holmås – come and take the money that you have worn out and strived for for your whole life, or you have accumulated a fortune and live in a dwelling. Is anything like fair to the representative Holmås?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e728	It is a good and philosophical question that the representative of the Progress Party is asking right here. But I think it's wrong not to go into the premises that are behind, that some people work and labor, and so suddenly you end up with a fortune of a couple of billion dollars, while other people don't work and labor, and so they end up on the street. That's what I think is a wrong description of how people behave here in society. We have a very different society. Because of the tax policy and how we distribute the income between labour and capital in this country, the richest people in this country have spent the last ten years with 70 billion more of the total social shock. You know what, then I think it's reasonable that we use the tax system to redistribute the money. Just taxing income, where, for the rest, the Progress Party, as I said --
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e735	Can you answer the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e740	– yes, where I also say as I said instead to the representative of the Progress Party, that having zero tax on shipowners leads to an uneven distribution. If you're not willing to use property taxes and property taxes then, we won't achieve equal distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e745	The President will remind both representatives that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e748	The representative Holmås says that property tax has the potential to become a fair tax. That means he thinks it's not at the moment. What has been characteristic of a good part of the tax increases that have come from this government is that they affect largely ordinary people and partly unfairly. In the posts of the representative Holmås I could not see how he had intended to get justice in the property tax, and my question is then short and good: Can he give us any other measures to find justice than to take the tram around the Oslo west and look at the villas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e755	The best measure to ensure a fairer property tax system is the job of local politicians from both the SV and the Workers' Party and, hopefully, the Right and Christian People's Party around the different municipalities. For there is no doubt that how to do the job for the first time in relation to taxiing around the individual municipalities and for the second time in relation to the bottom line, which has also been promoted as a proposal from the Christian People's Party, is essential. In Oslo, when we had property taxes here, it was like wanting a large deduction to make sure that those with ordinary and reasonable dwellings did not pay any special property tax at all. We also know that, in general, the most expensive dwellings are those that are the lowest in percentage terms. So if you provide a fair rate in the individual municipalities – where I hope you do a job in many municipalities – you get a fair system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e762	That property taxes increase exposure is understandable. But when the representative Holmås says that there is the most social tax there is – I think that's about what he said in his post – I am a bit stunned if you look at the realities, and that's why the Workers' Party in this city may have gone from reintroducing property taxes. The representative Holmås took us on a T-course, from east to west, I expect it was, and then we would take a look at who pays taxes and not. But the problem with the property tax system in many municipalities is that it's not fair. A large villa in Oslo west has an equation value and a tax base that makes it possible for that dwelling, if we had property taxes under old rules, to pay much less property taxes than for a similar new dwelling in Grorud or at Stovner. My question: Will the representative Holmås now contribute to the work that the Government has told it to do, both to look at the social aspect of property taxes and perhaps to see how the values and tax bases can become as unambiguous as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e769	I think it's very nice that the Christian People's Party push the justice bit about property taxes so much. Especially when you think that Hans Olav Syversen has a background from the City Council in Oslo, I think the signals he sends out are very good. What I said, was probably that property tax has the potential to be the most social tax, simply because it has a redistribution effect in terms of wealth. We know that wealth is very, very unevenly distributed and difficult to solve in ways other than just property taxes and property taxes. My Council is the same as I gave to Svein Flötten, and I believe we are very much in agreement, namely that ensuring that we have a system that gives municipalities both the possibility of deductions and of adjusting rates, etc. in relation to precisely those deductions, providing sufficient flexibility for municipalities, but then it is necessary to have a tax system in the municipalities that works well. I believe that we have to take this with us in the further work, as the Aasen Agdestein has also signaled.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e774	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e777	This is a very old debate, but it is not least an interesting debate. Property tax is one name, another name of the tax form is rent tax. The centre party is for rent taxes, to supplement income taxes and property taxes, which we were introduced in the 1882 tax reform. We are for rent taxes on oil. There's a general ground interest tax that's 50 pst. higher than the general rate of taxation for business. We're for ground interest taxes on power plants, which is 27 pst. higher than the general rate of taxation for business. We are further on for the historical system we've had on optional municipal property tax. We have had an optional municipal property tax on works and use. In recent years, it has been possible to charge municipal property taxes only on works and uses, and what can be used in the view of the Centre Party is an additional tax on the works and uses that have an income that in the economy is called a superprofit, i.e. that is close to what is profitable in power plants and similar activities. There is no need to charge municipal property taxes on works and uses that do not have a special return, and it is important that municipalities take into account when a stock legislation also applies to works and use. The centre party has also been historically responsible for the depreciation of municipal property taxes in urban buildings. Why has one been? Well, because the appreciation of urban buildings has historically had a much more positive development, and then due to public efforts. Thus, public regulation and public use of money have led to a much more positive development of the values of buildings in those areas than buildings elsewhere. The background to the matter we are dealing with now is what happened when the municipalities' admission to print property taxes was changed, so that one could also print property taxes for all the houses and cabins in the municipality. What the Christian People's Party and the Left have addressed in this setting about charging principles, bottoms and rates is very important. If there is to be an understanding in the municipalities of the distribution of property tax regardless of where in the municipality the buildings are located, it is important to bring it with them. It is important that these are further discussed, and the debate in Oslo, represented by the opinion of the first candidate for the Labour Party, Rune Gerhardsen, shows that this is a highly topical debate both in the city and – I can assure you – in rural areas. So it's important that it is followed up, because we must never forget that property tax is a tax that is independent of income with which you have to pay the tax, and it's also independent of debt. Therefore, there is a form of tax that has historically had a much lower understanding of the Norwegian population than that introduced in 1882, with taxes on income and wealth. Otherwise, before 1882, we only had property taxes in Norway. That's the name of the food truck. It is interesting to read the debate in 1882, who was in favour of property taxes – i.e. food taxes – and who was in favour of income and wealth taxes. At that time, the centre party was taxed according to its ability, with taxes on income and wealth, as is the case today. In the position, the majority points out what the Stortinget has decided, that there is exemption from agricultural property, with the exception of flooring. In other words, buildings which are part of the agricultural property through a personal enterprise as a company shall not be subject to property taxes regardless of the use made of the agricultural property. It is the house of the floor that can be subject to property taxes after a tax that takes account of the public price regulations that are on the house-to-storey on agricultural property. Otherwise, it is interesting to note the comment from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, where one refers both to the 1996 Zimmer Committee, which was a strong supporter of property taxes, or land-interest tax, on many more objects than what is mentioned here, both on fishing resources, on land resources and other things. The same minority also referred to the 2003 Skauge Committee, which was chaired by the former Minister of Finance of the Right. When I choose to use some sentences on it, it's because the Skauge committee recommended a greater emphasis on welfare taxes on housing. That was the primary proposal of the Skauge Committee, of course, in the context of ensuring symmetry between income taxation and the deduction of indebtedness rates for housing. The shadow committee had secondary – and I underline secondary – mandatory property tax as its proposal. Finally, there's an interesting shade in the setting, and it's pretty important. The right says that one is in principle against property taxes – and people should notice the word in principle – but the right will liquidate the property tax. It is interesting that the right does not support the proposal of the Progress Party in the decision to wind up the property tax, because one is in principle against property tax, but what one is in practical policy is not made visible in the vote. In the case of the Progress Party, it is interesting that there is a principle against property taxes, but it indicates that when calculating property taxes one can at least deduct from debt, while property taxes are calculated independently of debt – an interesting nuance between the Progress Party and the Right, which should be followed up on how to develop into practical policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e797	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e800	The representative, Lundtigen, points out that price developments in urban areas have been more positive than elsewhere in the country, and that at least it has partly caused public investment, which leads to higher prices in cities than they do in the country. His reasoning was that then it is more natural to have property taxes in cities and districts that are developed in cities than in the countryside. Then my question is: does that mean that the representative Lundtigen is a little skeptical and not quite 100 pst? in the extension of the basis of property tax, that this should cover the whole country? Does the representative Lundteigen think this is really a wrong track?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e807	So what the Storting has decided is that you have to have an opportunity to print property taxes on homes where people live on a full-time or part-time basis, so to speak, in the whole municipality or in parts of the municipality. So it's an opportunity that you have. What I said in my post was that, in relation to the purpose of property taxes, namely to involve an exceptional possibility of income or wealth development, it is of course more valid in those parts of the municipality where one has a greater appreciation of the properties than in those parts of the municipality where one might have a low or even a negative development of the property values. That's why I was quite thorough about what was the purpose of the property tax. It is important to be involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e812	The representative Lundtigen gave us a little lesson in what you can basically be for and against without perhaps being in position to do something about things. I expect that we will then listen to a professional from his position in relation to the Government. My question is quite different, namely where he agrees with us, and where he says that the ability to pay property taxes is not related to income, is not relative to what you have of debt. Now he did not mention wealth, but it goes on the same course. Does this mean that in the next document no. Eight proposals that we have put forward on property taxes, where we, among other things, proposes to limit the level of the tariff base, i.e. equivalent to the 30 pst which is now available for equation values, will the representative Lundtigen support this and work towards the Government to make it part of the result?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e821	It is true, as the representative Fleet says, that property tax is a form of tax that neither takes account of income nor liabilities held by the taxpayer. It's a form of tax that we have internationally a lot of. The Americans have property taxes on housing. That's why many Americans put wheels under their houses and got'mobile homes'. So they get away from the property tax. That's one adjustment. I agree with the statements made by the representative in relation to debt and income. What I said is that it's important to take a discussion about pricing principles, about bottom-up deductions and about rates, because here we have to make sure that those who print property taxes to the municipalities print it out in such a way that, as a collective term, justice is better protected than the situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e828	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e831	The penalty of property tax becomes the one that has a dwelling. In fact, it also applies to those who rent a dwelling, because they pay the property tax through their rent. It's not just homeowners and rich millionaires who get this tax. It knows people living in Fredrikstad, the city that in 2005 became known for having the highest property tax level in the country. During some hectic summer weeks in 2004, 16 000 protest signatures were collected and 500 residents were put up at a public meeting. The year after, the Action Group against Property Tax in Fredrikstad totaled several thousand in a torch that went through the city in protest against the re-taxation of the properties, leading to a strong increase in property tax. This resistance actually surprised the Working Party and the red-yellow-green in Fredrikstad. In line with their party traps in this hall, they did not have the great resistance to property taxes. The property tax in Fredrikstad, after re-entry, amounted to 5 per cent of the market tax without deduction. A lot of people called in despair about the giros that later fell into the mailboxes. I can specifically mention an old lady of 81 years with a teacher's pension who lived in beautiful surroundings at sea in what had previously been the family's summer house. The re-taxation of this 80 m2 dwelling resulted in a property tax of NOK 32 000 per person. years. It is the penalty for owning a dwelling where it is not allowed to build as much as a woodshed, but which has a shoreline that the public can also use. This lady actually wanted to give her shoreline to the municipality. She didn't need it. Other examples are those who have high debt and who have more than enough of the housing costs, including high interest rates. Young families who are striving to get a living, get property taxes on everything. It doesn't matter if the dwelling is borrowed to the top of the pipe, or if the house needs necessary maintenance. First, the property tax must be paid. After a short while one could read in the paper that 55 landlords in Fredrikstad had received notification of forced sales because they could not pay the property tax. The tax on property must be introduced or increased in order to avoid day-to-day provision to elderly or sick homes is the excuse used. But did you avoid it? No, no, no. The property tax was increased, and the daily offer was cancelled. Not a new hospital place was created. Older people and caregivers should not be told that the property tax has to be imposed, and that it is precisely those who are to blame for paying this tax. Is not this service to be provided in all municipalities, even without property tax? In local government, all local politicians say they're against property taxes, but they owe them to the Stortinget. It was said that the property tax has nothing to do with the decision to raise a deposit, which is something to be decided in the municipalities. The Progress Party on Stortinget will eliminate the possibility of using this tax, but it will not do so to the other parties. In fact, I have tried hard to understand the reason for this. Do some parties really think that it is right to discriminate against the inhabitants of the most disadvantaged municipalities? Is it really that some parties want to use the property tax to acquire voters in the local election campaign? Is that where we're going to use old-age care and property taxes as a threat and bait? The games are also not to be trusted. What you say in a campaign, the voters don't hear about it anymore. This can be avoided. This is a liability tax. There's a tax on view. There is a tax on resources already taxed. It is the most unsocial and hated tax used. The Progress Party believes that the Storting must take responsibility by removing the property tax, which no longer has any meaning, which affects socially and randomly, and which is a heavy burden on the population of the poorest municipalities. In the poorest municipalities, those with the least free resources to use, the poorest inhabitants live, the lowest incomes. That's why the municipalities don't get much to walk with. They thus impose a new tax on these inhabitants. This does not apply specifically to the millionaires. That's true of everyone. Oslo was mentioned here. It's very popular to talk about Oslo east versus Oslo west in these election times. Do a little experiment: Del Oslo in two, in east and west, and make two cities out of it. Create two different municipalities. The municipality that had to introduce property taxes would probably be Oslo east and not Oslo west. Oslo West would have enough money in the form of ordinary tax revenues, while Oslo East, with its challenges and lower revenues, would probably have had so many completed tasks and so little to go through that they would be tempted to introduce this tax. That's why it's an unsocial treasure. If anyone thinks that those who pay rent don't have to pay this tax, I really have to ask, don't you know that the costs are taken into the rent? The only people who don't do this are those who live in municipal housing, and those who have the municipality to pay the rent separately. It's sad to see how little understanding there is in this room for the big problem that very many people in the country now notice. With regard to all these measures mentioned here, which are to be taken up for the autumn, I have to say that I am wondering a little bit. It is already fully possible for municipalities to set the deduction. There is a difference between commercial real estate and residential real estate. That's the way it is today. It is entirely possible for municipalities to exempt minimum pensioners from the tax, but it is not only the minimum pensioners who are struggling with this. There are many people who have a minimum pension who also have major daily problems with paying interest, paying for house maintenance, paying regular public charges and what is needed to cope with their own income. There will be no arrangements for the property tax that will solve the problems. If you're going to take the bottom subtraction, it has to be high. Apartments in Oslo now usually get 2 million. kr and upwards. You're going to have 2 million. NOK in the base deduction, at least the municipalities on the outside will not have any property tax at all. This seems completely meaningless to me, and I wish that the parties could sit together and say, "We're removing this treasure."
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e864	Not only are right fundamental opponents of the property tax, we are also working against the tax in the municipalities where we are in position. We believe it is an important principle that one should own one's own home, that one should be given the best possible opportunity to buy one's own home – and not least to take care of that dream of living. The property tax goes wrong. It is also, as the representative Giltun had in mind, a tax for them as tenants. The increased expenditure it incurs for the owner of the dwelling is pushed on to tenants. There is a tax that affects them without debt on the dwelling and those with 100 pst. debts owed on the dwelling. It is a tax that in blood red Lillehammer caused a farmer to get over NOK 20 000 in extra tax. In addition, in the red-green eagerness to increase taxes, property and housing have been a precious treasure. We've seen that property taxes have increased every year. We see a growing eagerness at the red-greens locally to increase the property tax. Luckily, one thing is said to have lost the benefit tax on owner-occupied housing in the previous period, but unfortunately it has been fully compensated by the red-greens and this government's eagerness to increase the tax on wealth. It was interesting to hear the representative Holmås. He says almost proudly that it is positive that the sole proprietors are the hardest hit. We know from several large cities that it is the businesses that are hit hard, but often they can either push these extra expenses on to their customers, and business goes worse, and fewer jobs are created, or there are completely other people who are actually standing for most of the payment. These ordinary people are found mostly in cities ruled by the red-green. For example, Oslo had: earlier taxes such as those in the City Council have managed to get rid of, while at the same time focusing on quality in care, on knowledge in school, on priority welfare schemes and on working strongly for a safe and pleasant city. This can be seen, among other things: by opening up to maritime sites. Then it has to be said that while on the one hand one manages to cut such a strong source of income for the municipality, one has managed to get more hours of school into both primary and secondary schools. For those who should be in doubt for Oslo, don't be fooled by an Oslo Workers' Party where you are sick of getting back to power – especially when they have comrades like Oslo SV. Both I think, individually and especially together, will very well be able to increase this tax and get it reintroduced. Then, of course, I could say that after my history memory, the Centre Party was not formed in 1882, as the representative Lundtigen said. This happened only a little less than 50 years later, when one of the drivers to it was Vidkun Quisling – but I do not. In conclusion, I would say that this property tax, this cabin tax, actually takes both the dream of owning their own home from many and the cabin dream from an increasing number of people. It is a huge problem that both cabins and houses should be reserved for those with high income, and it is precisely the red-green ones that provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e882	The representative of Gitmark had a review of the Right's view of the tax, and it gets the representative on board. There was a lot of unpresist about this, among other things. the output of municipal property taxes on housing compensated for the loss of the benefit tax on income on housing. That's far from true. When I took a line, to ask the representative to be more precise about the history of the establishment of the Bond Party in 1920. My point from 1882 was that there were also representatives at the time who represented the view that the Bond Party represented when they arrived at Stortinget. Knowledge Quisling had nothing to do with the establishment of the Bond Party. I'm asking the representative to sign it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e889	It is a fact that the representatives of the Bond Party, among others. walked out of the Left and were neutral representatives, and that Vidkun Quisling later got a very central position in the Bond Party. The interesting thing here, which the representative Lundtigen should be concerned with, is the growing problem that property taxes are actually too many of the inhabitants of the country's municipalities, that his own party is increasingly a driver of this tax across the country, and that his own government is now increasing the property tax in every single budget, which in turn results in some – not fully – offsetting the changes that the previous government made by removing the tax on property. I am pleased that you have not come as far as to compensate them completely, and I hope that the representative will not contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e897	When the representative Gitmark takes such strong words in his mouth against the property tax, why does the right party not support the Progress Party, which will take away municipal property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e902	Not only are right-wing principal opponents of property taxes, as I explained in my post, but we are also working against this treasure locally. Now that we do not support the proposals of the Progress Party on tax elimination, it has two reasons. First of all, we're going to have a review of this once again in a Document No. Eight proposals that have been put forward by the Right to limit the tax. Secondly, we believe that unlike the property tax, which is a purely State levy, this can be done locally. But if we see that the Center Party and the rest of the Red-Greens are driving it and force it through in more and more municipalities, we have to assess this. For one thing that is absolutely certain, is that in Norway today you pay too much tax, and that the Center Party is a driver for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e909	The representative, Lundtigen, has asked for the word for another line, but he has only two lines. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e914	There's been a pretty high temperature around the property tax. I'm going to help you right when it comes to history writing. I'm going back to 2003, when Bondevik was in power. Then there was an unidentified representative named Jan Tore Sanner, behind a remark in the Financial Committee: ‘... also supports the Government’s intention to assess the removal of the current delimitation of property taxes to urban areas and to works and uses, as today’s discretionary demarcation makes the legislation difficult to apply to many municipalities and many demarcation cases are brought before the courts.’ That's what the Right said in 2003. And then it's right, later on, distanced from this cab tax, as Jan Tore Sanner calls it. That is the reality. It's a piece between being in position and being in opposition. It's true, as many people say, that today's property tax has a lot of possibilities. You can have bottom subtraction. In fact, one can vary the bottom line if the owner of the dwelling has several dwellings, e.g. the one you live in, and the one you have as a rental object. I come from Hammerfest, where we have a bottom deduction of 900,000 on the first housing unit, 600,000 on the housing unit on number two and down, so we're going to be able to take more from the bottom of the main dwelling. You can have deductions at the rate for the elderly. Then you can have a differentiated per million. We also have to pay attention to the value of sales, as there is less value for sales in a municipality, in a district, than it is in a central district. So here there's actually a lot of possibilities, if you want to use those possibilities. In my opinion, it is unfair that a block apartment in the centre of any city, or in Hammerfest, should have property taxes, while a house on the hill right outside the city border should not have property taxes. I think that's the injustice that people experience and think is difficult. In Hammerfest we have not only introduced property taxes, but we have also had a regression in relation to the price increase. As I see it, the Right Party in Hammerfest was also reciprocating and increasing the property tax, and people have actually accepted it. But I think a reason why people should be able to accept it is that they see that the money goes to something sensible for the community, which benefits everyone. We have e.g. spent 500 million. kr on school upgrading. That's something that people see is possible. We wouldn't have had that opportunity if we hadn't had the property tax. So the property tax has multiple sides, but with normal good practice, people are actually involved in accepting property taxes. But then I don't think it should be sucked away on customs and vases. Then it's going to be used on common property, so people see that it's possible to get something left for it in the community where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e930	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e933	It's quite interesting to hear how the representative Alf E. Jakobsen rewrites the story. When you go to the Great Council's pulpit and try forcefully to tell you what Right thought, and what Right stood for, it should also be of a certain level of truth. It is not right that the Right has at any time been to introduce cab tax. What's right is that in the context of the tax reform, we asked for an assessment of different ways of dealing with property taxes. We got the assessment, we saw the consequences, and we rejected the proposal. What I see now in retrospect is that we should not have put that proposal in the drawer, but we should have put it in the machine. As soon as the Workers' Party and SV arrived in the government offices, they made sure to implement cab tax, which means that some tenants will have a property tax of NOK 5000 to NOK 15 000. I'm not worried about the richest, but I'm worried about the cabin tax of ordinary people, because it could be the drop that makes them no longer able to sit with their cabins.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e940	If the representative Sanner had heard of it, he would have heard that I was referring to the right of word to what he was in the committee, when I said that he asked the Government to assess, etc. I have not rewritten the story from Stortinget's pulpit. But at that time, the Right and the representative Jan Tore Sanner were also open to consider expanding the boundaries of property taxes. I strongly disagree that this is about cab tax. There are actually people living outside the central areas and agglomerations, whether you live in the north or you live in the south.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e945	It is true that there are non-residents living outside the central struts, for example. a lot of farmers. At Lillehammer we could read about a farmer who got NOK 10 000 in property tax, and another farmer who got NOK 20 000 in property tax. I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party does not see that it is a problem that people, irrespective of their income, can suddenly be subject to a property tax of both 5000, 10,000, 15 000 and up to 20,000 kroner. Doesn't the Workers' Party at all have the power to see that the property tax has some unsocial sides?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e950	We have to use the property tax in a sense. It is such that is outside the urban strata, the value for sales is a completely different one, both for residential property and for other buildings. In fact, one shall refer to the turnover values at some points in relation to the tariffs charged. It's the right thing to do in many of the cablings, so it's actually done a lot of wrong things. But if we use the system as it can be used, it's possible to take into account that buildings located in the district have a completely different value for sales than if you were to have a full price compared to what you could get in central places. It is also possible for individuals and individuals of buildings to apply to the individual municipality for exemption, if there are specific reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e955	I record that the representative Jakobsen believes that the inhabitants will accept property tax if it is to be used for something reasonable. It was mentioned school construction. In other contexts, this is often the case with sick homes, care for the elderly, etc. used. Schools and care for the elderly are usually used as an excuse to increase or introduce property taxes. Does not the representative Jakobsen think that these are basic welfare goods that the municipality is to finance without property tax, and that, if introduced, the property tax must be used for things completely different from what any citizen should be able to demand from his municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e960	Now, in fact, it is free for citizens to consider their views on property taxes. We've used that income in school, because the people want it. We've spent it on culture, and we've spent it on some voluntary activity in the municipalities. It was actually like that -- there's nothing special about it, since I'm from Hammerfest -- that after we retraced the political leadership, which then had an upswing of 47 p.m., at the next election an upswing of almost 70 p.m. So there's actually differentiation in the view of what people think about property taxes. I realize that in some places there are huge protests and some actions around it, while in other places it is that if the people see that it can benefit them, for example. In fact, in the case of child labour and youth work that is not otherwise possible, it is people who think this is a good thing. You give something to the community rather than just being yourself enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e968	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e971	It's always interesting when someone reads your old comments. It's not always that you think it's going to be a few years. And as fiscal spokesman for the Right also in the previous period, I think I had the pleasure of writing the comment that the representative Jacobsen refers to. The fact that we wrote this about assessment just means that we take all the tax issues thoroughly and seriously. It was assessed, and it was later rejected, which Jan Tore Sanner has also stated in his reply. For this, thinking a little bit through tax questions and writing something about them: maybe you could put the Workers' Party and the Government's parties a visit instead of attacking our old remarks. Perhaps this budget should write some own, new comments about what you think about, for example. property tax, where you've written something, but also about some other things, where you're deaf deaf. A new situation has emerged during this debate, which I take the opportunity to comment on. It is that there are more than the opposition parties in this room who believe that property taxes are unfair, perhaps even unsocial – without the representative Lundtigen having said so. He said in his post that it seems independent of income. It seems independent of debt, he said. And then, of course, it also seems independent of wealth, although he did not take the burdened word in his mouth. This is pretty interesting. That means that, for our part, we have expectations for the treatment of our Document No. Eight proposals that are about defining the extension of the property tax area for the so-called cab tax, but also about getting restrictions on the tax itself, and looking at something similar to the 30 pst rule we now have for equation values – it comes up to the harvest. Not only because the representative Lundtigen sees property tax as unfair, but also because he gives the best – I dare say – a very positive attitude to reducing property tax, perhaps even removing it, I look forward to that treatment. I think this is one of the really good things that have come out of the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e984	I find it a bit fascinating to record that the Workers' Party is trying to make the Right Co-Chairman of a law that has now been implemented. It probably illustrates how difficult this case is for the Workers' Party, and that now you see that this could be a potential loss bomb in the election campaign we're going into. It is right that the representative Fleet stressed that we asked for such an assessment. It was in a situation where you were going to combine the new dividend tax with removing the property tax. We were given various suggestions regarding property taxes. We saw the result, and therefore we rejected it – while we were in government. But we note that this proposal should have been put in the machine, because as soon as Kristin Halvorsen entered the finance minister's chair, she found this proposal. And there are now quite a few, both pensioners and ordinary people, who sit in houses and cabins and have received quite a high property tax. I think in this case we have to distinguish quite clearly between those who have a liberal economy – because it is not those who are concerned about this issue – and quite ordinary people. Or, to put it in terms of the working party: it has not been many years since the rapporteur from the Workers' Party in Fredrikstad when he was confronted with many pensioners who had a minimum pension but who kept a paid-down house and had to – as the pensioners pointed out – start to take quite a lot of their minimum pension to pay the property tax in the workers' party-run Fredrikstad, went out in the paper and said that they could only borrow. It was the warm message from the Workers' Party to the minimum pensioners. On the other hand, I would like to say that in this debate there have been two interesting signals. One is from Lundtigen, who has to some extent recognised that property taxes have problematic aspects. It's also in a post from Jacobsen, which admits that property taxes can be a problem if you don't deal with this with wit and understanding. That means that there are also people in the Workers' Party who recognize that property tax has unsocial aspects and that it can be random. That is why I very much welcome the Labour Party's attitude to the Right proposal, and there I will challenge Jacobsen. The right has made a proposal to ensure that the property tax base can never exceed 30 pst. of market value. If I interpret Jakobsen correctly, and also the signals that have come from Lundtigen, then the Right's proposal should have a lot of appeal among those in the Workers' Party and the SV who see the problematic aspects of the property tax. Then you could get the safety valve that means that the farmer at Lillehammer is not subject to a property tax by the Workers' Party of 10 000-20 000 kroner. Then you would get a guarantee that the minimum pensioners in the workers' party-run Fredrikstad will not get a sky-high property tax. And then you would also get a guarantee that those who are sitting with an inherited cabin, but with a normal income, will actually be able to keep this. So my question to Jacobsen is whether he will support the Right proposal. As I said, it would be in line with the signals he himself has given in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1007	First of all, I just want to say that what the Right and the representative Jan Tore Sanner did in 2004, was not really talking about removing the property tax, but assessing its extension, simply because it was problematic. It's on the side. I just want to ask the representative if this was to understand as the committee said. The right considered extending the property tax, not removing the property tax in the area where you can have it today. And that's also the case if you look at the possibilities you have in property tax, and it's actually a flexibility that makes the proposal that Jan Tore Sanner comes up with, not necessarily what leads to a positive result. It's a possibility if you use the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1016	The right has not proposed to remove the possibility of property tax for municipalities, either during the previous period or during this ageing period. But we have opposed proposals to introduce so-called cab tax or extend the property tax base. And we have made proposals to limit the level of property tax. When Jakobsen points out that there is a flexibility in today's legislation, we see how labour party politicians and SV politicians around the country use this flexibility. They use it to reverse the property tax and in that way hit people with normal pay or retirement. That is why Jacobsen should answer the question. When he sees that flexibility is only used to increase the property tax in a number of workers' party and SV-driven municipalities, yes, Jamessen should answer my question, namely: Will he support the Right proposal, which means that we will be able to get a maximum limit of 30 pst. for the property tax base?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1023	We're a lot of people who see that if you don't develop the property tax in a good way, you have the problematic sides. That's exactly why it would be all right to get Right drag help to be able to design it in a more social way. Here the simple question comes in that if the Right was so concerned about being against this tax in principle, you should have made sure to remove it and compensate the municipalities for 4.4 billion kroner during the last growing-up period, when you had room for 23 billion kroner in taxes. Back to this thing that Jan Tore Sanner calls the so-called cab tax. I don't know so many other people than Jan Tore Sanner who call it a cabin tax. That is why I would call it what is the right word for it, namely villa tax. Can Jan Tore Sanner explain to me why Right believes it is right that villa owners in Bergen should have zero in property taxes, while people who live in ordinary apartments pay property taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1032	It is neither the right hand task nor the right's position that we want to give a tool to workers' party politicians and SV politicians around the country to impose even more people a higher property tax. Overall, this is a lot about cabins, and it's a lot about agricultural property. But I also think that we should recognise that when it comes to the main issue of property taxes, there is a balance between different principles. The right-hand position, as it's stated at the Right National Meeting, is that we don't want property taxes. We want our politicians to contribute to the removal or reduction of property taxes where they are introduced and not to introduce property taxes where they are not already introduced. At the same time, the Right is also concerned with local self-government. That's why we're not going in to remove the entire property tax law, because it's part of local autonomy. The balance of the two principles means that we are not voting in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party today, but we want to limit the possibility of collecting property taxes by removing the so-called cab tax and by setting a maximum ceiling of 30 pst. of market value. I'm a little surprised that, like the Workers' Party and the Centre, in this debate will not signal that it is a social and correct proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1041	This is developing interestingly. Right is in principle against property taxes. The representative Gitmark said that one is not ready to implement that principle before the harvest. Now, however, the representative Sanner says that one is for municipal property tax – that is what we are talking about – for one will allow the municipal maritime administration to introduce municipal property tax. At the same time, the representative says that one is against what the government is doing, because one will take away the members of the red-green parties of the local municipal authorities the tool to impose municipal property taxes. What does the Right actually mean? Are you trying to take away the possibilities of paying municipal property tax, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1048	If the representative Lundteg had agreed to attend the meetings of the Financial Committee and read the opinion, he would have seen that the Right does not vote for the proposals of the Advance Party in this matter. We have made it clear that we want to limit the possibilities of property taxes, by removing the so-called cab tax and by putting a ceiling on the property tax to a maximum of 30 pst. of market value. Then, where the property tax is introduced, you would get a much more socially fair system. The representative, Lundtigen, is also aware that right-wing local politicians are working to reduce property taxes. In some places, we've even managed to get rid of the property tax. So here you have to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. We are not voting in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party today, but we want a restriction, and we want a more social form where workers' party and SV politicians have introduced property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1058	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1061	The representative, Sanner, has recently asked for an answer as to why the Workers' Party asks questions relating to the Right's position on this matter. I have to admit that I am becoming more confused as the representative Sanner answers, especially given that he has had such a high profile both in the media and in previous debates on property taxes, where one has a clear impression that he is strongly opposed to municipal property taxes. But now it turns out to those of us who have read the setting – and I think most people have – that the Right is unable to support the proposals of the Progress Party. That means they're not against municipal property taxes, for the sake of local self-government. I am left with a question, and it concerns the local representatives of the Right: can one guarantee that they do not vote in favour of municipal property taxes and thus use the local self-government's ability to vote freely, but obviously in some municipalities votes for when the municipality's economy has been strained?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1068	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1084	At the request of the Family Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1093	Today, we are dealing with the law on public responsibility for cultural activities, the Culture Act. I have to be allowed to say that this has been going on for many years. Government confirms the strength and self-esteem of this law of art and culture and ensures that the entire cultural field is a natural and integrated part of all areas of society and politics. The entire cultural field is strengthened at a general level by a general cultural law. A general cultural law will give the cultural sector greater weight and status as a public domain and facilitate the development of a wide range of cultural activities and a diversity of cultural expressions across the country. The majority, in their comments, emphasise the right to an equivalent offer of art and culture throughout the country. It is important that the law is general, because the purpose of the law is to give the cultural sector greater weight and clearer status as a public authority. The law is simple and does not provide detailed guidance on the allocation, priorities or organisation of the cultural area in the state, in county municipalities or in municipalities. However, the majority emphasises the importance of cultural competence in all municipalities. A local bet is essential for children and young people. It is also absolutely necessary to ensure the recruitment and development of art and culture. A cultural law is not only about the relationship between state, county, municipality and cultural life, but also about the challenges that cultural policy faces through an increasing degree of globalisation and international agreements such as the EEA and the WTO. The legislative proposal can be seen as a follow-up to the 2005 UNESCO Convention. The main objective of the Convention is to ensure the right of each country to pursue an active cultural and media policy in order to protect and promote the diversity of cultural expressions. A general cultural law will take account of the international dimension while at the same time ensuring a good space for action in a national cultural policy. In this context, a fundamental law on cultural matters has been discussed. The importance of the cultural dimension in Norwegian society, not least in relation to international challenges, will be highlighted by fundamental law. SV has long wanted a foundation law, and there will be a follow-up to any basic law later. The Committee is divided into cultural law. The Progress Party and the Right believe that the proposed cultural law proposal will not have a significant impact on cultural policy and they oppose the proposal. In contrast to these parties, the majority believe that this law will strengthen the self-esteem of art and culture, and ensure that conditions are facilitated so that a wide range of cultural activities can be developed and a variety of cultural expressions to be shared by all throughout the country. The Left and Christian People's Party supports the law, but believes, among other things, that that the law is not comprehensive enough. They also wanted the purpose section to say something about the importance of self-valued art and culture. The vision of the Government and the SV is that Norway should be a leading cultural nation, focusing on the cultural dimension of all parts of society. Focusing on culture also has a major impact on other societal areas, such as business development and jobs, integration and inclusion, health, learning and creativity. The goal of this government is to 1 pst. of the State budget to go to culture by 2014. It's SV very pleased after many years of fighting for just this one percent, and it's absolutely crucial with a larger state investment in culture, so that we can get the growth we want across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1116	Step-by-step steps will fulfill the cultural promise and the promise of the Soria Moria Declaration. The proposal for cultural law is part of this. The description of the law as simple and general does not give the law justice as to its meaning. Culture and cultural budgets have often become balancing items in tight public budgets. The law raises the field of culture as an important and central part of public policy. The law highlights the responsibility of public authorities to facilitate a wide range of cultural activities so that everyone can have the opportunity to participate in cultural activities and experience a variety of cultural expressions. The Ministry of Justice has, in its opinion, pointed out the practical and actual significance of the law. Here's what it says: ‘Although the draft law does not imply rights or obligations for the inhabitants, the Ministry of Justice will not waive it any legal significance. The draft law could strengthen the legal relevance of cultural values in the management’s discretion in different contexts.’» At the hearing, more people from cultural life were calling for more concrete references to cultural resources, and several felt that this should be clarified in the legislative text. However, it is a point that it is not done, but that it is public responsibility for cultural life that is emphasised, and that concreteisation is about different measures and instruments that can be used by levels of government to fulfil the intention of the law. On the other hand, the levels of appropriations and organisational solutions must always be subject to political discussions and priorities. Designing a mechanical law could notify culture out of the continuous political debate and thus weaken it a desire to achieve by law, namely to secure culture as an important policy area and subject to debate, a debate that does not have as its starting point the fact that culture is a balancing point, but that culture is an important responsibility for the community and the public. The legislative proposal also takes into account the fact that the design and implementation of cultural policy is not only about the relationship between state, county, municipality and cultural life, but also about the challenge of the design and implementation of cultural policy by international flows and contractual works. The legislative proposal can also be seen as a follow-up to the 2005 UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. One of the main objectives of the Convention is to ensure the right of each country to develop and implement an active cultural and media policy. A general cultural law must therefore also take account of this international dimension and contribute to ensuring the space for action of a national cultural policy. With such a hindrance, it is not unreasonable to address the question of the fundamental law of culture. It is worth noting that in the consultation round there has been support for further investigations on this issue. However, there is a need to address a number of issues here, and the Ministry has announced that they will come back to this issue at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1138	It's not free for me to be relatively impressed when I hear how much you can get out of this cultural law. The progress party cannot see any reason to support it. The reason is that this must be one of the largest symbol laws Norway has ever had. The majority refers to the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that the Government will introduce a simple – yes, it is very simple – and general cultural law to express public responsibility in the field of culture. So that means that there's enough for the government with a law of six paragraphs that make up half an A4 page with a double line distance, where the first paragraph takes into account the objective of the law, which is nothing else – nothing new – than what is already being practiced today. The second paragraph defines what culture is, which everyone knows. If they do not know, they can now use Norway’s Lover as a reference work to find the definition of the word ‘culture’. The third paragraph says something about the government's tasks. Just like that, it's probably not everyone knows, but it's been like this for decades, without having to legislate for that reason. The fourth paragraph says something about the tasks of the county and the municipality, and with only minor changes is the repetition of Section 3. § 5 lists some common tasks of the state, state and municipality – such as the prospect of cultural life, its potential for development, its professionalism and its quality, and that persons, organisations and institutions should have access to information on schemes with financial support. All this is as a premise today as well. Neither is it necessary to legislate; it has worked perfectly well. The last and sixth paragraphs deal with the entry into force of the Act. This may seem like the emperor's new clothes to many of us. This isn't about the economic side, not about sanctions and rights. As the representative of May Hansen said, the right to an equivalent offer of art and culture must be granted throughout the country. There's not one place in this cultural law that you have the right to equal treatment. It's not a law of right. It's really nothing – except that the government is so febrile after fulfilling the Soria Moria statement that they write down something, six paragraphs, without having consequences for anyone. Government parties claim that the objective of the implementation of this law, inter alia: is to strengthen the self-esteem of art and culture. We have even heard that from this pulpit. Yes, she may need the government parties a law for this. But for the Progress Party, this becomes a long step from a free and independent cultural life, of which we are very concerned. I'm of the opinion that it's the art itself that has to create its own self-esteem. It has clearly so far, and it is sad that at the hearings of the large organizations only boasts and praises of this law. It's not a sign of health, neither for cultural life, nor for us as politicians. I think the government has made clothes that only the emperor can see. Here, there's no money, money that probably many of the cultural actors expect. There will be no rights. There's going to be a law with six paragraphs that doesn't help anyone to jump with. If anyone's still in doubt, we're voting against this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1164	It was just said from this pulpit that we have a thriving cultural life here in the country. We have, and we should be happy for that. It's going to flourish further just as lush, and maybe even more lush, whether we get a cultural law or not. As far as I know, there is no municipality and no state in this country that does not already liberally meet what we experience must be the requirements of the Culture Act. In the future, good working conditions in local cultural life will continue to focus on the priorities of local cultural politicians and how they prepare for local cultural life. So I don't think that this law has any special meaning. It appears to be a symbol law, as such, saying something about the importance of culture. That's good, but there's probably something worrying about this, from the Right's point of view, because this can also evolve to be used as a legitimacy for stronger political governance. In other words, a cultural policy that has an instrumental content will be able to cover itself under public responsibility, and in this way one will be able to rotate this which will be a major step in the wrong direction. So the law is so thin, as the representative Woldseth described it, that it appears harmless. Right will vote against it, and, to put it this way, it's not that dangerous if it's passed either. I don't think it matters that much. It's to think that you might fill the book of law with one law after another that has a stronger symbolic content than real content. I think you should think about that a little bit. There is one way to pursue policies that over time will be unfortunate because it erodes the content of the law. We will, as I said, vote against the law. It's probably adopted, and then we'll see around the municipalities and in the counties if this has a positive significance. If it does, it's fun. If it doesn't, it won't surprise you. I believe, for my part, that I would rather rely on the local and regional politicians of the Right Party, and in and of us who are also sitting in this Chamber, in order to create a good framework for cultural life in the future, and to have an offensive cultural policy that can enable us to continue to have a thriving and rich cultural life and a good growth in our country's cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1175	The Christian People's Party has intended to vote in favour of the law. When the Christian People's Party supports the proposal for cultural law, it is in order to ensure that all people are entitled to an equivalent offer of art and culture, regardless of the level of function, geography and income. We want to guarantee everyone the right to experience professional art and the right to self-employment. I hope that the Culture Act can be a driving force in cultural work across the country and help create a more inclusive society. The Christian People's Party believes that a prerequisite for achieving that goal is staff with good cultural competence in all the municipalities of the country. The LNU consultation note emphasises that voluntary cultural work for and among children and young people must be recognised as a central element of cultural life, and not as an important form of drug and crime prevention. This is in line with the Christian People's Party's view of the self-value of art and culture. That's also why we want the purpose paragraph of the Culture Act to say something about the importance and intrinsic value of art and culture, not just specifying public responsibility. Cultural development increases the quality of life of all age groups. The term ‘quality of life’ includes not only material things but also social and spiritual aspects. In the cultural concept lies a anchoring of values that creates security, identity and transparency for the unknown. Art and culture are a source of creativity, knowledge and experience for all age groups. The Christian People's Party will stress that a living cultural policy must both preserve and renew, continue values and traditions, and at the same time be looking for new expressions and expressions. Government parties promise 1 pst. by the State budget for cultural purposes through its cultural promise. The Christian People's Party agrees that 1 pst. is a good goal to work for. However, it is important that we do not overestimate, so that municipalities can prioritize resources for culture according to local needs and assumptions. At the same time, both municipalities and municipalities have a clear responsibility to provide adequate financial support for artistic and cultural activities. The Christian People's Party wants decisions to be taken as closely as possible to those affected. Municipalities have to decide how the service provision should be for their inhabitants and how they want to use the resources for their benefit. This is done by funding municipalities through frameworks and receiving earmarked grants. It is important that the actors in local cultural life participate in the policy design of each municipality and county. We are experiencing a growth in culture-based economic development. It is gratifying to note that many, not least locally, are very concerned about a closer approach between culture and industry. In this context, I would like to ask for the cross-sectoral action plan on culture and industry, for which we have put forward proposals in the context of the handling of the Mapping Communication on culture and industry. The Christian People's Party wants to realize the cultural schools as a cultural educational resource for the school. This increases the school's interaction with the schools. In addition, the Christian People's Party will develop national guidelines for the provision of cultural education. The goal is at least 30 pst. by all children. The Christian People's Party wants cultural schools to develop the artistic potential of the population within different arts and expressions, with a focus on children and young people. We're in a high season for different festivals and games. Throughout Norway, we can soon supply ourselves with all kinds of culture, from music to literature, food, art, crafts and wooden boats. Festivals and games are good examples of what voluntary action means. Although public authorities have a responsibility for financing artistic and cultural activities, which is enshrined in the cultural law that we are adopting here today, voluntary action also represents a force that is absolutely necessary to create a good society. Voluntary action creates commitment and makes people not only recipients, customers or consumers of culture, but active participants to the joy of others and themselves. The Christian People's Party is committed to both public responsibility for financing and organising cultural activities and to framework conditions for the voluntary sector. We need to find a good balance between these two considerations, in order to give everyone a good cultural offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1196	The Central Party welcomes a law on public governance its responsibility for cultural activity. Culture is in the broad sense of giving our lives content. Music, film, imagery, voluntary work and sport are examples of activities that take place around the country, which daily make us an audience – or others as practitioners of cultural activity. We communicate through our language, but we also practice culture. Language is culture. So culture is not only important to us as individuals, but also to the community of human beings. Yes, we can say that we build our community on culture. It's almost impossible to see our everyday life without any kind of culture. So there's every reason to give culture both prominence and protection in the form of law. At the same time, it is important to remember that culture is still changing. Culture is constantly finding new expressions and shapes, and so it should be. The central party is particularly pleased that we are adopting a general cultural law today, not only because the central party has a healthy scepticism for details from the state in areas where other levels of administration are set to manage – not primarily because culture must be free, free to find new forms, new expressions and new bets. If we had, for example, create a detailed law in the 1990s, it would be harder to do the lifting that the Cultural School represents, because the public had focused more on the tasks and areas that were required by law. In other words, a detailed cultural law had a cementing effect on culture. The centre party has confidence in the work done by municipalities in the cultural field. Local authorities are currently using most of their budgets on culture. Following the accession of the current government, municipalities have added value to culture. They do that without being imposed on any cultural law. Nevertheless, when we see that there may be a need for a cultural law, it is in order to give culture status at the times when the municipalities have put forth financial effort and they have to assess culture against other statutory tasks. Under the previous government, one in many municipalities experienced a decline in the rights of culture. Although the red-green government has greater ambitions than the previous one in the local economy, we never know what future governments can bring. The law also helps to protect Norwegian culture from the cultural currents that are coming through increased globalisation. It is possible to be enthusiastic about cultural diversity, while at the same time taking seriously the responsibility we have for our own culture. That's what we're praying for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1209	I'm basically not critical of symbol laws. I think we can symbolize a lot of what's important here in the hall, but I also think it's nice if laws can testify to the working capacity and general willingness to do something. I believe that at national meetings there has been a long debate in the vast majority of parties – back and forth on cultural law. One of the things you learn as an adult is to hide your disappointment when you open packages that aren't exactly what you think. When I saw the draft cultural law, I had to admit that I felt a little like I was five years old again. That disappointment was hard to hide. The left we thought we would get when we adopted this was both to secure the statutory tasks, to secure the state obligations and to bring together and simplify all the laws that we have in the cultural field today. If we had created a cultural law that included libraries, archives, museums, cultural schools and other important social institutions within culture, it could have become a very exciting cultural law, which local and central cultural politicians had felt was a framework within which they had great opportunity to enslave, but also a framework that ensured them in the fight against others. But it didn't choose the government to do it. The government chose to create a small package that says something about the good goals, and does not do the big job it had actually been to create such a larger law. One of the areas where we are now a little bit behind the law on culture is the museum area. I might wonder if the Council of State can answer whether he has assessed whether we need a museum law in the future, or whether the Council of State believes that the entire museum field is covered by the law we have today. If we look at all the challenges we have in archives and other museum fields, we realize that the challenges are quite big. We in the Left also wanted something more to be said about culture's self-esteem in terms of participating, experiencing, creating, but also about volunteering and the commitment that a society has to have an elite within the different cultural fields. For it is the responsibility of the community to ensure not only that one has the width but also to ensure that one has an elite within the cultural field, an elite that can be a driving force, that can be a challenger, and that can be involved in influencing. The left sees no reason to vote against the law as it is. As I said, we can also be for symbol laws. We have also promoted another proposal, which I would like to address, which is that, in fact, one should have worked further with what is here today, in order to have a common law in the field of culture, a law that could have brought together the challenges we have today. It seems that the government has now cut off its ‘two do’ list, without making sure they got something very much to do at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1228	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1231	In many ways, this is a historic day. For the first time, we get a cultural law that establishes the responsibility of public authorities to create good and predictable framework conditions for a rich, varied and broad cultural life. The law establishes – fundamentally – that public authorities are responsible for facilitating cultural activities. The law does not establish a requirement for detailed appropriations. There has never been any ambition to regulate local cultural policies by law. It would be in direct conflict with both the local philosophy of self-government and with the dynamics and will to change in a cultural life, using a law to regulate culture in detail. We must have a lively political debate and political assessments that underpin the priority of resources. The community is not worthy of detailed regulation from here. Nevertheless, there is every reason to expect that the Culture Act will lead to the future strengthening of the framework conditions for culture by county municipalities and municipalities. With the cultural law as the starting point and more liberal economic framework under the red-green government, we expect this to also be reflected in the framework of cultural life. Then this comes from the pulpit – not only from the government parties, but also from the Christian People's Party and the Left – for why we need such a law. Although you might have wanted that law to look different, it's good that there's such a broad majority for such a law. It was not possible to have it adopted in the previous magnification period. We looked at the possibility of introducing the different cultural laws that exist in different sectors into a common law, as the representative Skei Grande wants – also as an adult, not just as a five-year-old. What we came up with was that the level of detail in the different sectors of cultural life was so enormously different in the legislation we had that they did not fit together in one law at all. For example: The library sector has quite detailed legislation, in other sectors we do not have it. We have the door open that at a later stage – when we see how the law works, and when we review other parts of cultural law – we can see whether there are other things that fit into this law. But initially, we didn't choose to do it like this. I have the impression that this has actually been met with a positive attitude, also from cultural life. Some of the concerns were that such a revision of different areas would have led to poorer legislation in some of the most detailed sectors — or vice versa, in other sectors of the law where legislation is not very detailed, one was concerned that it would be too detailed. So the representative Woldseth says that this becomes a law without content, because it doesn't follow money. Well, one must have followed exceptionally poorly in Norwegian cultural policy for the last six months if one has not realized that it follows a lot of money with it. Only in 2007 increased the budget’s cultural appropriations by nearly 500 million. kr – half a billion. At the same time, the strengthened municipal economy has led the municipalities to spend half a billion more on culture, i.e. a raise of DKK 1 billion in total to the state and municipal investment – so the jam follows the money with it! It is also interesting to note that a broad majority of hearing bodies want this law. KS supports it, and most of the municipalities that have spoken support it. The right-hand and forward-facing party leader Oslo is right-wing, and Sandefjord, who is probably also run by the same parties, is critical. But the rest supports it. In cultural life in particular, this law has been wanted for many years, and it is finally wanted to be fulfilled. I also think that we have found the reasonable balance between what we as a state and legislator are going to put of frameworks in such a law, and the local freedom of action that one must have in order to make a good cultural life work. I believe this law, when Odelstinget and Lagtinget adopt it, will be a great joy for an even richer Norwegian cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1254	We heard both the SV and the Christian People's Party say that this is a law that gives rights. Can the Council of States confirm that this is a right – right to what then? And then there's another question: we've seen it in hearings, and we've seen that cultural life out there has enormous expectations of this cultural law. Is the Council convinced that he is able to meet his expectations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1261	Firstly, the concept of legal right law may be related to individual rights. I would probably not recommend to the representative Woldseth or others – once the Culture Act has come into force – that a police report be made after a bad theater performance. In that case, it would give the word 'theatermeldung' a completely different meaning to what it has so far had. On the other hand, it gives citizens of a municipality the right that local authorities have an obligation to pursue a cultural policy that is in line with this law – that is, to facilitate a wide range of cultural services and activities in the municipality. In this sense, it implies an obligation on the part of the authorities. However, as politicians, we are central and local, who must ensure that this law is complied with, and, in this way, it is leading the supply of cultural services to the citizens of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1268	I wonder if the Council of State can give me an example of a municipality or county that does not meet the requirements of the Culture Act. Is there any place where he sees that cultural life can come to report his demands and expectations to the municipality, and so have something to pick up? Is there any municipality today that does not facilitate its organisations, so that they fall outside the cultural law? On what points does the Council of State consider it to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1273	There are many municipalities where it could have been tempting to go into detail and comment on cultural policy, but it is in Norway that cultural policy should also be determined locally, by local voters in the elections that are now coming to the autumn, and by those elected to the local government. I'm not particularly happy that right-wing and progressive party-driven Oslo, for example, increases prices in the cultural school considerably and has many thousands of waiting lists, and not enough money in some areas, but I don't intend to go through those efforts and evaluate them against the cultural law. Politicians and citizens of Oslo and other municipalities will have to implement this. But we know that especially in the periods when the local economy is in demand, the argument is used that statutory tasks must take precedence. Here, then, culture has a means of not being squandered in the fight against other important purposes when scarce resources are to be distributed, possibly once in the future. Hopefully, we're sitting so long that the municipalities still have ample finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1280	I want to use the chance to repeat the question I had in my article about a museum law. This is one of the areas where today's legislation is somewhat different from countries we want to compare with in culture. Does the Council have any assessment of this? Is this something he's working on, or does he think it's unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1285	We don't have any immediate plans for a museum law. As the representative of Skei Grande knows, there has now been a major reform in the museum sector, with many large mergers. There has been a great deal of quantitative reform, the aim being to reduce the number of units, to strengthen the professional environment, and then to increase the appropriations and to follow a stepping-up plan that we are now in the process of implementing. I imagine that when it is completed, which we hope may be a reality as early as next year, we need a quality review, so that we can ensure that the reform has a qualitative content. The question of a museum law may be relevant for discussion in that context, but we have no immediate plans about this per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1292	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1297	In my time as a local government representative in the workers' party-directed Lillehammer, at a time of labor party government, we had tough thanks and had to cut the municipal economy. It went a little bit beyond culture, but it went jammed me out over other things as well. I have noticed that it is in very few times that this will matter. It was the central party representative inside, and it was the state council inside. Yeah, well, you have so much faith in local self-government that you shouldn't be able to rely on culture for a long time as well as on the priorities of local politicians. It doesn't surprise me so much about the Workers' Party, but it surprises me a lot about the Center Party, so you don't have this confidence in local politicians. What also surprised me about the contributions of the Centre Party was the emphasis on Norwegian culture, and that this was particularly important for Norwegian culture. Yeah, well, now we're already in on the instrumental grip. So is it that the Central Party believes that culture from other countries, whether it comes here in one way or another, should not be part of the cultural image to be protected by this cultural law? When you decide locally, you should start sorting in Norwegian or not Norwegian. That, I think, was a very eye-catching article that I would like to elaborate a little further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1306	The representative of Thommessen knows very well that this is not about lack of confidence in local politicians. It's about the experience we've acquired over the previous period here in Stortinget, where one of them had another government that didn't give the majority of the municipalities any choice but to cut, not only on culture, but also on the statutory tasks. That's why we in the Center Party think it's reasonable that culture is also going to be a kind of legal task, and it gets the same status as the other areas if the municipalities are going to get back in such a situation. When I talked about Norwegian culture, my starting point was the cultural expressions and the cultural forms that come to the surface here in the country, versus those that we experience through the media, and that have their origins in other countries. I didn't say anything negative about cultural expressions coming from other countries. On the contrary, I think it is important to take care of cultural diversity, very important, both globally and nationally, but that we have a special responsibility to facilitate the preservation of Norwegian culture – Norwegian traditional culture and the cultural expressions that originate here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1313	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1317	It might be interesting to hear how the representative Sande thinks that the priority is to be given when everything is required by law. If all things are required by law, they are reset again. When you talk about legal tasks, you're talking about the specified, carefully regulated tasks that describe how things should be done at a very detailed level when we talk about health, school and such things. Here we have a bunch of a law that's not going to contribute anything. Does the representative Sande really believe, if he realizes that he is in the local government where he comes from, and must choose between a law-enforced, detailed school assignment and a health task towards a cultural task, that it is then the letter of the law that makes him want to give priority in one way or another? I think that is the political will. If we don't trust it, we have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1329	I want to follow up on what the representative Thommess said about statutory tasks, because every day in Kommune-Norway today the statutory tasks are broken. There are children in children's shelters who are not offered accommodation because the municipalities have too poor finances, and there are drug users who do not get the right to do so under the law because it is a bad economy. That's why I'm following Thommes' reasoning on this, and it might be very interesting to hear what the representative Sande says he'll give priority if he has to. But that's not why I took the word. I took the floor because the Council of State said that «the jam follows the money with» this law. I guess that's a truth with certain modifications. It is true that the state budget on culture has increased. It is also true that local government budgets have increased, but they do not at all commit. The money that this government has transferred to the municipalities is not earmarked for culture, so it is up to each municipality to make the priorities that they think are right. So, as I have said before, it becomes an inconsistency law as long as it does not commit. As long as you can't have any penalties, it just becomes a big soap bubble. The day culture understands that this does not have any consequences for anything, I think this soap bubble will break, and that with a serious breakdown.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1336	What determines what is done by tasks and services in a municipality, culture or other thing is the municipality's economy. There may be as much political will as possible, but if there are no means, it will be cut, whatever. So it experienced the majority of municipalities in the previous period, not only in the cultural field, but also in important areas such as care for the elderly and schooling. So it was at a time when the Right invaded the government and the Progress Party into the parliamentary foundation of the government, at least as a support party in three out of four budgets. To the representative Woldseth the answer is simple: I don't think that's right, I. If it gets up to me and the Center Party, then the municipal politicians don't have to cut off a service supply that the inhabitants have to eat, whether it's culture, care or health, precisely because we want to pursue a different policy when it comes to local economy, than what the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1343	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1359	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1366	Voluntary activity is important. Voluntary work has a primary intrinsic value in reaching and activating peoples together for meaningful and socially beneficial activities. However, there is no doubt that voluntary organisations make extensive financial contributions to society, through the production of services and extensive unprofitable efforts, without this being reflected precisely and directly in the national accounts. It is therefore right and proper that society, through the formulation of its policies, facilitates the strengthening and further development of the voluntary sector. The voluntary organisations have been working for several years to create a voluntary register. We are making the necessary decisions today so that such a register can become a reality. A registry is not itself a target. It shall be a hub for both the public and the sector itself. The creation of such a register facilitates an ownership and a simpler regulatory framework for any of the interactions between voluntary organisations and public administrations. This will give the voluntary sector the status of its own sector, and the ambition is that such a register should also simplify support schemes that currently increase the expenditure of organisations. In this way, the creation of a voluntary register could reduce the paperwork in organisations and free up more time for activity. By registering the organisation numbers, organisations may provide relevant information. They don't send any number of attachments and fill in forms to any public authorities. This requires, of course, that the public authorities concerned have a review and acknowledge the register as a gateway to public support schemes. I think there should be a way for this to reduce the costs of the public, which the public has in these processes. The aim must therefore be to ensure that organisations are given certain rights through registration in the register and are given equal treatment and stable framework conditions. In order for the register to meet its objective of being a job-saving tool in the voluntary sector, it is essential that it be designed in such a way that voluntary organisations are able to register their activities there. At the same time, the quality of the information contained in the register must be such that it meets the requirements for access to the various support schemes. One of the themes that have been thematically addressed in the hearing, which is also in the setting, is the relationship with the Norwegian Church. Here it is important for the majority to stress that the public bodies, or the bodies that have put in place and are responsible for public tasks, should not have the right of registration in the register. This restriction is initially made because we want to avoid a hollowing out of the voluntary practice. The Norwegian Church is divided into local units, sock, which is a separate legal entity. The parish councils and the ecclesiastical councils perform public tasks according to Church Law § 15. Let me underline: this limitation does not in any way prevent the voluntary work carried out by the Church from being registered, either as a self-employed subject or as a whole in a private volunteer. So it's just the registration of the socket itself that it's not possible to do. So to the question of the fee. The majority sees that organisations’ designs give slightly different arrangements for registration and thus for fees. For this reason, it has been important for the majority that the Ministry has met with its wish for the central level to be able to help local teams to prepare registration forms for them. The majority believe that in such a block registration it should be possible to obtain a certain discount. While the majority in the committee welcome the register and want to handle the matter now, just as it has been a pressure from the voluntary organizations to get this up, want the minority, which consists of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, to postpone the case and manage it in connection with the volunteer message. I suppose they want to do something for their own eyesight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1389	The Government’s proposal for a law on the register of voluntary activities, a voluntary register, is available for consideration. The proposal is one of many proposals from the Government to strengthen the activities of voluntary organisations. Last week, the Stortinget dealt with the law on the registration of collections, and until the fall, there will be a separate big message about the volunteer's condition in Norway. The Committee stresses that voluntary work is primarily a matter of self-esteem. But it is also the case that the sector manages and trades large economic values. The voluntary organisations have long wanted a register of voluntary activities as a tool for simplifying the administrative work currently taking place in organisations. The purpose of a register of voluntary activities is thus to improve and facilitate the interaction between voluntary organisations and public administration. Such a register may save both organisations and the public for unnecessary red tape and duplication of work, including: in the case of government grant schemes for voluntary activities. Such a register will also facilitate public policy towards the voluntary sector. The systematic information provided by such a register will also enhance the legitimacy and knowledge of the voluntary sector and thus make the third sector a separate field and its importance visible. The majority of the Committee is aware that the creation of a register of voluntary registration itself does not require any legislative provision. We have, however, stressed that the voluntary organizations themselves want such legislation, and we are pleased that the government is following this up by promoting their own law. There is a broad verbal consensus in the UK about strengthening volunteering in Norway. However, when it comes to the specific issues and the implementation of the individual measures, our paths are separated. This is the second time in a short time that the opposition is proposing to postpone matters that volunteering itself has asked for and has been engaged in – now the voluntary register and a short time since the registration of the collection activity. We are pleased that the Government has taken steps to improve the conditions of the voluntary organisations, and we are looking forward to receiving, in a short time, a separate volunteer message for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1404	Voluntaryness in our country is extensive, diverse and of considerable value to society. However, there is little coordination of public practice towards voluntary organisations. We know that the volunteer organizations have wanted a voluntary register. The Progress Party immediately welcomed this when we heard about the idea, assuming that the register will have real content, that it will help to simplify the administrative work that is currently seizing large resources in the organisations, and that it will provide benefits such as volunteering. better VAT arrangements. We see that the government parties in the Soria Moria Declaration want to reduce the administrative work of voluntary organisations and release more time for activity. It would be nice if this were not just a party speaker, but concrete action. So far it seems something ugly and unyielding to me. For almost a year we have been promised a comprehensive message about volunteering, but have so far only seen some cracking single things. This gives cause for concern. If the work had been more structured, we should first have been given a clarification of the overall policy and then the individual measures and their content. Now it looks like we get some single measures first, and then we have to wait for both the overall and the content. It'll be pretty reverse. It is also the case that consultation replies have raised objections to the organisation of the register as proposed in the proposal, in particular from organisations representing less voluntary teams and groups. There is also some doubt as to whether the proposal has been properly investigated, which is funny enough from among others. Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. There are also organisations that believe that the organisation of the collection of the fee, as proposed in the proposal, is insufficiently adapted to the diversity of voluntary teams and groups. As the proposal for a register of voluntary activities is available, it is most adapted to large and well-established units, which may not initially be the ones most in need of such a register. Like the other minority in the Committee, we believe that it would have been an unconditional advantage if questions of a voluntary register had been dealt with in the context of or in the notified voluntary service. Then the weaknesses of the proposition could be investigated and the government's voluntary policy considered in a context. I noticed that the representative from the Workers' Party said that the government was taking steps in this matter, but for us it seems that you are going the steps backwards, and it is a little difficult to deal with us in the opposition. I therefore take up the proposal in the vote from the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party to send the matter back to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1427	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestion he himself made. The President has understood that the Progress Party and the other co-sponsors accept that there will be a vote between this proposal and the vote – otherwise we will have to call voting now and take a decision on this proposal right now. – It’s nodded, and that’s how it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1432	On the right, it is committed to improving the framework conditions for volunteering in Norway. For us, volunteering is an important part of civil society, and it is a central value that volunteering can develop independently of public leadership. It is therefore necessary to improve the scope of voluntary activities in general terms. This may include, for example, easier access to organisation numbers, charging schemes, reporting procedures and other formal issues. In this context, a voluntary register can become an important and effective tool. If we get such a register to work according to our intentions, there are good opportunities to free time from administrative work to purposeful activity. So the right-hand side basically supports the creation of a voluntary register. However, it is essential that such an initiative succeeds and brings together broad upturns from an early stage. If this gets a ludicrous start, the voluntary organizations will soon lose their trust. We have a lot of them -- I think it's an estimate of 120,000. If we don't get a majority, this won't work. In this context, it is of concern that the signal is already being signaled, for example: from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality that they will not make full use of this in the field of knowledge reporting, but that reporting must be done as before. There are also uncertainties for the Church's activities, which the Right reacts to. I noticed the representative Sande's point about this, and it sounds promising in itself, but it still seems unclear to us. On the right, it is also thought backwards that we are dealing with several key issues in the field of volunteering before the volunteering message is presented. We have the expectation of volunteering that it will give us a starting point for taking some overall action – for example, a discussion about how to find a system that provides both large and small organisations with a satisfactory response. This discussion is marginal both in the debate on the Law on Collection Actions and now in the discussion on the Voluntary Register. This, in the context of clear weaknesses in how the solutions presented will actually work for small organisations, makes it possible for the Right to support the proposal to postpone the case until the voluntary notification is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1445	Volunteering is important, and it is a central area of the Government. A variety of voluntary organisations spend thousands of hours working on different activities. Many enjoy this important work throughout the country. The establishment of a voluntary register is part of the work of the Government on fulfilling the Cultural Promise, which involves a stepping up of cultural appropriations up to 2014 – in which case the appropriations shall be 1 pst. of the expenditure in the State budget. On the SV side, we can't mention the cultural promise too often, so it's important to clarify it in every cultural matter. The aim of a register of voluntary activities is to simplify and strengthen cooperation between non-governmental organisations and public governance. It can save all parties from unnecessary duplication of work and bureaucracy. Another very important objective is to ensure systematic information that will make it easier to identify the appropriate adaptations to voluntary organisations and thus to facilitate voluntary work by the country. Responsibility for the development and operation of the register shall be added to the Brønn Island Health Registers. It is worth noting that no one is obliged to register, but any non-governmental organisation which is to be considered as an independent legal entity shall have the right to be registered. The funding of the Voluntary Register will take place through the establishment of an annual fee among the registered entities, but this fee must be so low as not to prevent the registration of small voluntary organisations. In Norway, there is close interaction between the voluntary sector and public authorities. This is good, while policy practices towards voluntary organisations have been poorly coordinated and work on resource allocation criteria, allocation and control is often very large. Voluntary organisations have long called for a voluntary register, as a tool for simplifying the administrative work currently taking place in organisations. This uses the time that could have been spent on more voluntary work. It is important to find the right point of intersection between necessary administrative work and control. Another aspect of the voluntary register is that it will make the scope of voluntary activities visible and the value of the voluntary sector in Norway visible. It is good to recognise and legitimise the voluntary work as a separate third sector of society through the legalisation of the voluntary register. Based on the hearings, the voluntary organisations wanted the legalisation of the voluntary register in order to obtain the significant visibility of the third sector as a separate field. This law-making of the voluntary register and thus the recognition of the invaluable work done in the whole country, day after day, throughout the year, is something SV is very pleased with. We look forward to the message coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1462	Voluntary activity gives us much as individuals and as a society. Organisations provide meaningful and identity-creating communities. Many places are voluntary organisations that create the meeting places that exist outside jobs and schools. It's a self-esteem that people want to make an effort for the community and for others. The fact that man gives of the time and his commitment to a matter they burn for, is a positive value we must rise below! Then the government must not put waits in the wheels, but must facilitate simple and good arrangements for support and reporting. A voluntary sector register has been a wish of many voluntary organisations. The aim would have been to create a system that would simplify the administrative tasks of the voluntary sector and of the public sector in this area. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government wants to reduce the administrative work of voluntary organisations and to free up more time for activity. The Christian People's Party argues that this applies to the full scope of voluntary organisations. The government also claims that a decisive success criterion for a voluntary sector register is that the registry needs wide support. The Christian People's Party is concerned that smaller voluntary teams and groups are not satisfied with the voluntary sector register. The Proposition does not conclude with how to coordinate reporting to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Culture and the Church in order to simplify the procedures for children’s and youth organisations. Nor is the organisation of charging, as suggested in the proposal, adapted to the lack of voluntary teams and organisations. The suggested unit seems to be most adapted to the large and well-established units that may not initially be the ones most in need of a voluntary register. Another weakness in the submission is that voluntary activities within the Norwegian Church are not entitled to be registered in the voluntary register in the same way as other voluntary activities. The Christian People's Party thought it would be best for church sounds and church councils, such as church councils. children's choirs, visitor services, etc. is organised under, has the right of registration. If I understood the case spokesman correctly, he thinks that this draft law opens up greater flexibility in this area, but one cannot explain that there is a monthly turmoil and uncertainty online in this area. At the same time, it would have been good if a volunteer register had been processed in conjunction with the alert. Hence, the Christian People's Party together with the other opposition parties presented proposals asking that the proposition be sent back to the Government and put forward as a new matter in connection with the voluntary message. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to give the voluntary sector good and coordinate arrangements. In order to improve coordination of government policies, the Ministry of Culture and the Church was given a coordinating responsibility for the field from 1 January 2005. The aim was to make it easier to be voluntary, through a stronger coordinated effort for the voluntary sector, so that organisations can more easily find their way into the ministerial system or labyrinth. It is still the case that each department has a sectoral responsibility for voluntary activities. It is the purpose and criteria of state support schemes that determine which organisations are to receive government support. Proposals for voluntary organisations must be seen in the context of the sectoral policy objectives they are intended to achieve. Many voluntary organisations have played an important role in the development of the Norwegian welfare society in different areas – not least in health and care. Sectoral access has therefore given organisations the status of key partners in public governance. Organisations continue to play an important role in promoting different interests and as a corrigendum to government policies in the various sectors. Finally, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party is stifling the intention and the idea of a voluntary register, but we are some with many organizations in that there should be a more thorough distribution work in the department before the cases return to Stortinget. This applies in particular to small voluntary organisations and their creations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1485	It's by a lot of people said very nice about volunteering at the beginning here. First of all, I would like to point out the differences in what is going on in the voluntary effort – from my position in the Old Town Council to the Red Cross, to all that is being done today in good associations, which are, as it were, unorganized in relation to national superstructures, and all that is done in sport. What is often forgotten is the enormous voluntary effort made in political parties in Norway today. The field of volunteering is one of those fields where I think the Soria Moria statement is actually pretty good. I think the Center Party has got a lot of penetration here. But I have to say that it's a little sad when, after getting through all the formulations in the Soria Moria statement, they have met with so little understanding among the government partners as to what this really is about. An important step is to bring the bureaucracy down in the organisations. If you are at all aware of running small organisations, like small children's and youth organisations, I have to say that you can be quite shocked to read the comments of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, as they have presented the matter. The major weakness of the investigation, as it was in the ministry, was that it had been based mainly on large – I have to say – labour party-driven organisations, which were most concerned with delimitation in relation to limited liability companies, property and all that for most organisations in Norway does not mean much. That's why this is the second case today that I think reminds me of laxity – I don't know if «laxity» is a parliamentary expression, President, but at least one could have the power to take the job of clearing up the public records we have, clearing up all the reporting that volunteers have to the public. You could have had one portal where you put all the information. At that time, several reports had been released to public bodies. As it is now, there is more job, more payment and more bureaucracy when the goal is really the opposite. We are assured here by everyone that the fee will not be large. The amount of the fee is not really the big problem. The problem is to explain to 11 young people between the ages of 10 and 14 that you are not going to buy a new volleyball until you go to 4H camp, but that instead you are going to pay money to do the job of registering the organisation. Many of us who have spent a lot of our lives working with just what many see as bureaucracy training and not democracy training, know how difficult it is to explain young trustees – as we want it to be in youth organisations – that this is actually something you have to do, that it is important that you do, and that you do this in order to get money into operation. To explain to them why they have to work more, that they have to pay to work more, pay for them to work twice, is actually a pedagogical job that I'm glad I don't have to have as a trustee in a children's and youth organisation. I think it's actually now six years since the Left had the first hearing on a volunteer register here on the Stortinget, with all the international guns. It was just to get the public background on how much work volunteers do. That's why I think it's even more strange that the government is so busy limiting who should be in the register – not in relation to the limited company and all the difficult things that the NOU actually shows, but in relation to the fact that it's very important to say that the Church is not a voluntary organisation. Why is it so important? I am, as a member of a council, elected to trust in the Norwegian Church, according to the rules adopted in this house, but I have never received one penny for the cakes I have baked for Sundays. Why is it extremely important to remove the Church as a volunteer organisation? Is there anyone else who might be able to come in? I don't understand this. That it is also important not to count with volunteer centres with certain owner structures, I do not understand either. Why is it important that that volunteer should not be worth anything? Here's a lot of questions. I should have liked to discuss this on a more fundamental basis, not make an hasty decision, as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1500	Before taking the floor, the President-in-Office of the Council of State Trond Giske will agree with the representative of Trine Skei Grande that the use of the word ‘laddership’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1504	It is a pity that the word ‘landscape’ is not a parliamentary expression, otherwise the opposition’s approach to the issue of facilitating volunteering in Norway should have been used. Nearly half of the Nordics are engaged in voluntary work. Voluntary organisations have about 8.4 million members. It was put on the market for nearly 40 billion kroner in the voluntary sector in 2006. Volunteering simply does an amazing job of hard work every day in every little crick and hook of Norway. It makes our country better to live in and give people in Norway a great opportunity to use themselves, to enjoy themselves and others – completely voluntary and based on their own interests and desires. However, in many contexts, volunteering in Norway meets the public, either as a beneficiary, as a partner, as a reporting body and as a consultation body. We want to facilitate those contacts to be as simple and unbureaucratic as possible. Therefore, for many years, volunteering has sought to facilitate the organisation of this relationship through a voluntary register. This is now making this government a reality. What we need, then, is a legal basis for putting such a register in place. That's what we're dealing with today. I note that the opposition in the Norwegian Parliament believes that they cannot give the Government that authority so that this voluntary register can be put in place. No, we need an investigation first. No, we need a volunteer message first. – No, we must first have a longer discussion, as Skei Grande now pointed out. If time had been taken in the spring interview, long observations could have been made on what this voluntary register should look like, written down the assumptions, wishes, objectives and key elements of such a register, when the executive authority of Norway, the Government and the ministries are to implement it in cooperation with the voluntary sector. There are disappearing few, as I can see, in the volunteer who agree with the opposition in this matter. Voluntaryness Norway – FriNor – which organises 125 different voluntary organisations is in order for the Odelstinget to take this decision, they are in order to establish the voluntary register, and they want it in place as soon as possible. So let's see how we use a part of the cultural promise, which the opposition parties have been opposed to, to help make this register as reasonable as possible for those who are going to be part of it. We're going to spend government money helping to make the volunteer register work. Then we get to sit down, as we have done so far, with LNU, which organizes many of the small organizations, and with other important volunteer organisations, to get this register so that it helps the volunteer as much as possible. To vote against the home that will get this register in place, it must be the worst way to meet the desire of the volunteer for such a register. So I'm just wondering a little bit what that is volunteering has done to the opposition in Norway. They are opposed to saying all the volunteering in Norway wants. It's not many days since we dealt with a law on collection control, as the volunteer wants. It is opposed to the game policy that a broad majority of volunteers want, and to a completely different, unpredictable situation for voluntary teams and organisations. The right, Christian People's Party and the left voted against the change in the key provided by the opposition in the previous period and secured voluntary activities in Norway by 800 million. kr more this year. That was the result. The opposition is also opposed to the cultural promise, which has a strong commitment to volunteering – at the latest in this year’s state budget with 26 new volunteer centres, and with a strong increase in Freefonds – which the old majority cut year by year, at the latest in the last budget presented by the Bondevik government – with a new 15 million. kr. So I have to say that the volunteering in Norway is going to be happy because it became the majority of the red-green government in 2005, and so that we now implement the point of volunteering. Then, of course, we have hope that we have not accomplished all the volunteering we want, until we present the volunteering message that the Government has announced, for our ambition is to facilitate the volunteering and not to counter it, as the opposition in Norway stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1524	The opposition parties have promoted a Document No. 8-proposals in this big business where we asked for a volunteer message of our own. Then the council said this was to turn open doors, for this was supposed to come to spring. Now it's warm out, and we haven't seen any messages. The representative Sande says it's coming in during the summer. The Council of State used the words ‘as notified by the Government’. We are denied treatment of our Document No. Eight proposals in the committee, sail if we've taken the time to make it. When will the message come?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1529	This shows what kind of opposition policy we have in the field of volunteering. The only opposition has to contribute is to promote a Document No. 8 proposals, so that the Storting can decide to promote a message that the Government has notified it of. If that's what you have to contribute to, I suggest that you take a meeting with FriNor, who organizes 125 organisations, read their platform for various issues that are important for volunteering – there you will find the volunteer register, and there you will find a lot of other things – and rather promote any suggestions based on it. The gratification message is just around the corner, and I want to assure the representative Skei Grande that it will contain very much good news for volunteering. Then there was one thing I forgot, and it's about the Church. Skei Grande was also terribly concerned that the Church was not allowed to join the voluntary register, was not allowed to be part of the volunteering in Norway. Church activities are, of course, a major part of voluntary activity in Norway, such as activities within other religious religious communities and life views, but as voluntary activity they can only register if they are a choir or an activity that is a separate subject. But the Church as such is part of public Norway and cannot be included in a voluntary register.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1538	I still want to repeat the question of when that message comes, but I also want to supplement: 5000 local teams in the music and theatre world were behind an opinion at our hearing: ‘We are of the opinion that there is considerable uncertainty as to whether this register is proposed to be available to small teams and groups.’ In fact, the opposition became quite concerned when it was presented, and we believe that this should be done more. Doesn't the Council at all worry that 5,000 local teams in the music and theatre world say they can't use this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1550	Now I didn't hear anything in the quote from Trine Skei Grande that supports what she added at the end, that they can't use this register. They expressed, according to Skei Grande, a concern that small organisations were not well equipped. Then we have to engage in a dialogue and facilitate small organisations. But I wonder: was it such that these small organizations, to which Skei Grande refers, recommended saying no to a law home in order to establish a voluntary register? It might have been interesting to elaborate here. I don't know if Skei Grande will find anyone, almost, in the volunteer who supports the opposition's view, that Odelstinget will say no to adopting the law that will actually lay the foundation for it. And it's not like the organizations, especially the small ones, today, after the Bondevik government's four years, feel that it's easy and unbureaucratic to deal with public authorities. It is not that the Unit Register is today very well organised for small organisations. The new voluntary register will be a major improvement. It should have been done a long time ago. Now it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1557	The Council of State goes to the great heights in its criticism of the opposition in this matter. I think he goes so loud that he hardly believes in what he himself says. At least he could not have read either his comments or his own case submissions in this context. The case is that both the register case, which we are dealing with today, and the collection case are good things with good thoughts, but perhaps incomplete, possibly holes like a sweat cheese, someone would say. There's something from the background that we've wanted a better investigation of it. The Council of State now says that the volunteering message is ‘like the corner’. That's about the same thing we heard at the end of the summer last year. Then it would come in the course of the autumn, then before Easter, then in the spring and now 'like the corner' again. Can the Council of States specify when he has actually intended to present this voluntary communication? Is it going to be in this pouring period?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1564	The answer to the last one is yes, it will be during this big session. The message comes during what according to Storting's concepts is springtime. Then we'll be happy to see that the volunteer message was not submitted in the spring, because the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen does not have time to finish the matters that are already in the committee. Several major and important things are being pushed out into the autumn, because there is too much to do in the cultural committee. It is possible that Knudsen has other things to do around here than to be present at the treatments here and get matters away. I have registered that he has been very busy getting many cases. Now he has so many things that he cannot swallow them away. But that's okay, that's what we're going to take note of. We get a lot of other interesting debates beyond the fall. One of them is going to be about volunteering. There's a lot of good news for volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1571	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The speakers who are now speaking have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1576	What's wrong with volunteering has done the opposition, asks the Council of State. I'd rather ask, what's wrong has the volunteers done to the government to earn the kind of treatment we've seen over the last year? So, for a long time, a volunteer message has been signaled here, which should be the starting point for comprehensive treatment in an otherwise complex field. There are considerable differences in the interests represented. Large differences exist between large and small organisations. And what do we see? We see that on a case-by-case basis, and in particular, the small organisations have less chance of promoting their interests and making what they stand for. This is how the government plays on teams with strong power structures within the volunteer, which I think you should be careful to believe represents a whole. So it's also the way that the government actually is government and that's how it sits on a number of the assumptions that the Storting should have to deal with matters, it's the concrete things we're talking about now, or when the government talks about that, after you've got the home in place, you're going to use the cultural promise or the cultural money to patch up the whole thing and make it look good. Yeah, of course it's fine, but that's not a prerequisite The size is familiar with. We don't know what the government's thinking about the budgets in the future. We have to base our homes as they exist, and in the light of the investigations that have been carried out. I think there is a significant arrogance on the part of the Government when the Council of State goes out with the kind of cigaretteing that we have just received an example of. Here we see that you run a race where you take a stand on the absolutely most important issues, I would say that the volunteer register is one of the most important issues in the field of volunteering. Now we still don't know if there's any further and even more important things that you get in the message, but at least, here you run a race where you've preferably listened to the strong, to the big, while the little ones express concern. Anyway, you run this through without wanting to see the whole thing. It's arrogance not only to the opposition, it's also arrogance to tens of thousands of non-listening NGOs who have not had the opportunity to record their positions. We have no solid coverage in the proposition, I would say, to feel sure that this will turn out in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1585	The President would point out that the word 'arrogance' is not a parliamentary expression. The president knows that the representative Olemic Thommess is more inventive than that, so he can find other words to describe what he feels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1589	I find it very difficult to follow the opposition in this case. There is a broad majority, an almost unisoned Freedom Norway, who want this Voluntary Register to be put in place as quickly as possible, so that it will be easier for them to deal with public authorities. They have been in close dialogue with the ministry to design how this register is to be organised, and will also cooperate closely with us when we get it in place. We're going to spend public money to make sure that it's as cheap as possible for the volunteer organizations, and by the decision in Odelstinget today, we can have this volunteer register in place quickly. If we were to wait for the Stortinget to receive the groceries report, we are talking about Christmas times before this would have been completed. There's almost no one, I think, in Freedom Norway who agrees with the opposition in this case. It was exactly the same when we treated the collection check a few days ago. Volunteering wanted a simple, unbureaucratic system to give a guarantee to all happy donors in Norway that the collections they meet are safe, that the money goes for the purpose, and that they are not being tricked. That's the whole foundation for maintaining the joy of the giver. Then I just have to repeat all the other things that the party of the representative Olemic Thommess has faced in relation to Norwegian voluntarity in recent years: No to the Cultural Promise, with a strong commitment to volunteering large cuts in the government budget appropriations for Frifondtore cut in the budget appropriations for various cultural buildings around the circle to change the key, a change of 800 million. and culture and, finally, no to the policy of gambling which was previously the focus of almost a single enlargement, and which a broad majority of volunteers say they want and which they perceive as the contract between the authorities and the voluntary nature of automatic clearing. All this that the Right presents in its policy, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, is therefore contrary to what the volunteer himself wants. It's okay that you don't agree with all the volunteering efforts that the government is doing and standing for, but you can't stand in a position where you systematically, at the point after point, counter the enormous effort of hard work done by teams and organisations around Norway. They deserve our help, our support, our organization and our efforts, not to be countered by an overall opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1616	I had actually promised myself that I would not be irritated by the Council of State, but he was able to do so today. I understood to the President that “arrogance” was not a parliamentary expression, and then I suppose that “arrogance” is not either, although I am strongly tempted to use it. I understood that with regard to the defects and defects mentioned in the proposition, i.e. in relation to the weakness of small teams and voluntary groups and the collection of fees, the Council of State solution is that there are things to be corrected afterwards. So you have to make sure that as soon as you're done with the treatment here in Odelstinget. Wouldn't it have been smarter to do a little bit of this, get a volunteer message, see it in a whole, and maybe not the mistakes you admit you've made in the proposition? It is at least the view of the Progress Party and the overall opposition that it might be wise to get a more complete and correct proposition at the first time. With regard to the workload of the Committee and the fact that the Committee has chosen to postpone some of the cases to the harvest, it is, of course, possible for the Council of State to make rhetorical points of it, but the fact is that the reason why the Committee has to postpone matters to the harvest is that the Council of State and his colleagues in the Government have brought matters to the Stortinget so late that it is technically impossible for the Committee to finish them before the holiday. In fact, it is also the case that the issues that have been put to the harvest are a unanimous committee behind postponement. So it would be an advantage if the government could perhaps work a little more evenly, and deliver matters to the Storting so that they can be treated while the Storing is assembled. Otherwise, I would just like to point out that we delivered a Document No from the opposition about a year ago. Eight proposals that we have requested to be dealt with before vacation, which the majority, the government parties, have refused us. This is exactly what we are dealing with today, volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1627	The President would point out to Ulf Erik Knudsen that he might be able to use the description ‘high and dark’ of the Council of State instead of ‘high’ – only for guidance for later use. Olemic Thommessen gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1632	It is later that the Council of State does not see why it is so important to have this message compared to the register. It is that we have an expectation of the message that is coming. We expect that that message to actually contribute a number of inputs to how both the voluntary register, the collection action provisions and a number of other provisions will work in relation to the small organisations, and the big ones for that matter – the whole field. So we don't get to know that, and that means that we're missing one of the important floor planks in relation to how this is going to be handled. Then the councils of state boast of their many money for culture. Then I'll be allowed to remind you that the Right has every penny. In addition, we redispatched funds from press support to the rest of the cultural budget, which meant that we had more money than the Council of State to some of the areas mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1639	I could perhaps also take the word of a manifest misunderstanding, because the representative Knudsen said that we had admitted that there was a mistake in the proposition. Let me stress that there is no fault or defect in the proposition. We have great faith in the scheme we have for the volunteer register. We have developed it in close cooperation with the volunteer itself, and we will also implement it in close cooperation with the volunteer. It almost seems that the representative Knudsen really thinks that we should have established this register first, and then come to the Stortinget and get approval, but we need a law firm to do that. It's not high, but if it's the volunteer policy representative who wants to characterize, there's a lot of good synonyms. ‘Supervisor’, ‘supervisor’, ‘supervisor’, ‘unique’ are words that can be used about the voluntary action that is now being taken, at least if compared with the previous government and the previous large-scale. Now Ulf Erik Knudsen is not to be loaded for failure by the Bondevik government, but it could, for example. was fully possible that Olemic Thommes had got his party with them when they were in government for four years, and submitted a volunteer message. But I understand, of course, that you have much greater expectations now when you actually carry out a cultural promise and make an effort for your volunteer. I can warn you, we are going to continue the initiative on Freefonds. We're going to increase the stakes on volunteer centres. We are going to implement the game policy that ensures incredibly important returns for volunteering. I record that the right party now believes that it will be left to each municipality to compensate for the volunteer or not when the game policy is put into play, to put it that way. We're going to bet on cultural buildings, meeting places. We're going to carry out a lot of the actions that volunteering wants, but we're going to make sure before we get this message, that a strong wish, a “important” cause, as Olemic Thommess said, namely the voluntary register, is adopted in Odelstinget, and that we can implement it already during the fall. It must be to the satisfaction of the opposition as well, even though it is the red-green government that actually gets it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1646	First of all, I just want to make it clear that the Council of State has now said that the Church is part of the public sector. That means that the next time I bake cake for free for church coffee on a Saturday, it is free of charge for the archbishop to allow him to rule the state church. That we have not taken the time to work on volunteering is a rather strange claim, at least in relation to the fact that I have not pointed out any defects or defects in the proposition. But it is quite clear that the Council of State could not have read its own proposition. What is there from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is that this will lead to more bureaucracy, more reporting and double reporting for all voluntary child and youth organisations. It's according to my memory 15,000 local layers. I do not know who is running a race, but it is clear that, first of all, neither this council nor the government generally has a good tradition of admitting the mistakes they have made in the job, so that they can actually correct them at the treatment in Stortinget. They say here that it has been shown that the Government's proposal regarding price is not a ludicrous solution, but that they should have a dialogue about it. It is not a good enough insurance for me to be able to give them that authority today. It would also have been an advantage if they had a dialogue within the Government. The fact that one has not managed to do that job of coordinating such a voluntary register with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, I believe is such a great weakness that I am not really willing to give the Government the space for action it is to develop, as long as they do not believe that the job of coordination is important and should have been done in advance. There's a tone to the opposition here that triggers that the president gets a little bit more strenuous work to put down characteristics than others. It gets someone each to put on the memory. But here a proposal has been made that points to a number of errors from a number of hearing bodies, where you are not willing to change any of the things you have done wrong, but yet you are going to demand a blank mandate to make something that we do not have an insurance policy to achieve. We would have liked to have dealt with this with a volunteer message. It has been our great goal to be allowed to discuss everything in a complete way. The fact that the government has spent a year volunteering can't be our fault. It must be that it is the responsibility of the Government that the Government has dealt with a message that means that this volunteer register will not get started as soon as it should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1661	I really didn't think it was necessary to inform from Stortinget's pulpit that the Church in Norway is part of the state. We have a state church that sits down the council, and that's part of the governance structure of that state church. But if a choir in a church organizes itself with its own statutes and boards, etc., you can of course become part of that volunteer register. That of course applies to the back club of Trine Skei Grande as well. If she needs to make a baking cake club with articles of association and organisation, she can of course sign up to the volunteer register. I don't know if I would recommend it, but it's quite possible if she wants it. I also record that I do not hear a word from Skei Grande about what the opposition's voluntary policy is, except that it is believed that the voluntary register should be postponed for at least half a year. They say you've spent a year volunteering. Well, you could sit for four years and sleep without being able to make a volunteer message before you left the ship. It would have been nice to hear what you're most proud of during this four-year period of volunteering, if you didn't provide a volunteer message, if you didn't get a volunteer register organized, if you were fighting with beaks and claws against that change in the key that guaranteed culture and sport 800 million. The fact that many tens of millions of people have been cut in the Free Fund, that tens of millions have been cut into cultural buildings, or that they have fought against the cultural initiative presented by the opposition. So it's also allowed for the opposition to admit that here we're going to be short, here we're not doing anything, there had to be a government shift to get a bet on Norwegian volition. That's not against us. We're more than willing to volunteer, and we're more than happy to be the best friend of volunteering. But having a constructive opposition that can contribute something more than saying that matters should be postponed is always a help for a government as well. We want to admit mistakes, but we almost have to do them first.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1672	Step Skei Grande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1675	The reason why it is important to have a volunteer message now is that there have been so many changes in volunteering, including our government period. A lot of assumptions have changed, and a lot of things have happened compared to a lot of grips that make it time for someone to sit down and see the whole thing. That is why there is a need for a voluntary service. Otherwise, I could have commented a lot when it came to the Council's relationship with numbers. It's almost similar to VG's calculations of tobacco prices, and at least that's a debilitating attitude to it. But the reason why some of us are critical of the model that the Council of State has put on is precisely that we want a voluntary policy that reduces bureaucracy, that leads to simplification, that leads to a focus on the voluntary work that each individual does. We want to fight for the small organizations. We think the big ones are doing well in this fight, but the volunteer register was primarily for the small organizations. It is not the Government that is so busy. We would like to be constructive in the debate. We would like to point out how things should be done better, but the government is largely only concerned with getting its mandate and not of development to get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1684	After listening to this exchange of views, I have been strengthened in the belief that it must be right to send the whole matter back to the Government. Besides the fact that the Council of State says that he wants a simple and unbureaucratic system as possible, it is very difficult to see any particular details. There is a lot of time and effort being spent on that side of rolling – I don't know if the rail is a parliamentary expression, but at least it feels like this – over the opposition's position here. What's an indisputable fact is that there's a lot of holes and a lot of insecurity here. We do not know how to coordinate reporting to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Culture and the Church. Sorry, but you do not know how to organise the collection. I insist that the proposal is best suited to the large organisations. You will also receive a receipt from the small organizations. When the solution to the state council here is that one just has to organize another way to get into the register, I'm afraid it's not the last time we hear that answer. In order to enter the voluntary register, which should be a red tape, there will be a multi-bureaucratisation to fulfil the conditions to enter the register. We're very sceptical about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1691	It's not to prolong the debate, but when you get the wrong statements to the extent that they do here, I feel it's right to take the word and clarify some questions that are asked. First of all, the party of progress says that the government party has admitted that there is a defect and is missing in the proposition that has been made. There is no error and there is no error in the proposition made. Then the representative says Trine Skei Grande that the volunteer register is not for the small organizations. That's wrong. The voluntary register is for small organisations, and we will design the voluntary register so that it takes full account of the scope of voluntary activities. Then the representative told Trine Skei Grande that it would not lead to any less bureaucracy. Then there's got to be a vision that comes up here and argues for it. Our claim is that this will lead to less bureaucracy. If it was true that this was just a register for the big organizations, which would lead to more bureaucracy, why isn't the whole volunteer Norway on the door asking us to postpone the proposal, reject the register, be some with the organizations? There was such a reaction that you should wait. But there's a reaction that hasn't come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1703	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 794]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1719	I would like to comment a little on this matter, as the Central Party's spokesperson on nutrition policy, because the negotiations that the Government has conducted with the EU are of great importance in principle, and of great economic importance for the maritime food industry and coastal communities. During the negotiations, the media has focused on the temporary suspension of the EU EEA negotiations due to the lack of willingness of Norway and other EEA countries to pay aid to the new Member States Bulgaria and Romania. The media have given the impression that there has been a lack of willingness, even greed, on the part of Norway to contribute to financing developments in the new Member States. This, of course, is not the case. We know that although the main issue in the negotiations was the financial arrangements, much of the problem in the negotiations has been related to compensation for lost free trade. Through bilateral agreements, Norway has had full duty-free and quota-free market access to, inter alia: seafood products for Bulgaria and Romania. At the same time, the EU's unfair anti-dumping duties and obstacles to Norwegian seafood in the internal market have limited Norwegian exports of these goods. This last problem has not been solved. Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement has not been tolerated for salmon, mackerel, herring, shrimp, pectinidae and marine crustaceans. Fortunately, this has changed. I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Government for the line that has been held in these important negotiations. The Storing Proposition clearly shows that the Government has also pursued an active European policy in this area. Despite the fact that the EU has not wanted to link the financial contribution and the compensation negotiations, the Government has stood by it and it has worked. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) regulatory framework guarantees that third countries will not suffer worse from the accession of new countries to a regional trade agreement. This means that the EU had to provide compensation to Norway in the form of improved market access to the Union when Romania and Bulgaria were integrated into the internal market and a line was set across Norway’s free trade agreement with these countries. The EU was obliged to negotiate with Norway to compensate for the loss of market access, both current and future. We have also had compensation in the form of improved and more orderly market access to the entire EU internal market for important seafood products. This was worth both suspending the EEA Agreement in the name of the fight and accepting financial support at the level one finally accepted. For the centre, it was essential that a lost market access solution for marine food was provided, not least because there were a number of unresolved issues for Norwegian fishing industry in connection with the last enlargement. For the industry, direct compensation in the form of an increase in duty-free allowances is of great value. It's 17 900 tons and 25 pst. increase in the duty-free quota for shrimps. This applies until 2009, and it is a very good start to this period. Similarly, 2004 herring and mackerel quotas were linked to ‘industrial processing’, which prevented traders who themselves do not process the fish. It causes more bureaucracy and constitutes a technical barrier to trade. This has now been removed. The EU has committed itself to harmonising the law of origin in trade in fish between the EU and Norway. I refer here to the strict rules of the 1973 fishing letter. The parties have now committed themselves to meeting to negotiate on this before the end of 2007. Finally, import duties on processed products of herring and mackerel, known as escalating customs duties, have in practice made it impossible to invest in the EU as a market for Norwegian operators. Finished products have met customs duties of 20-25 pst. The new duty-free quotas will be of great help to a Norwegian processing industry that wants to invest more strongly in the EU market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1747	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The Odelstinget has now come to an end on the supplementary agenda. [[Footing, see page 796]] This setting has no cures in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours. Under Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that Odelstinget nevertheless deal with this matter no. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1766	I will first make some comments related to the proposed change in Section 19 and refer in particular to the third paragraph of Section 19–4. For a short time, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, from the national chair to the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, came with a gift package for pensioners who want to work after the age of 67. Yes, just a week ago, the Prime Minister went so far as to say that curtailment is a udder, and that it should be removed as soon as possible. He also repeated that message on the TV 2 news that evening. And to the evening post yesterday, right-leader Erna Solberg said, ‘I note that the Government has not made proposals to remove the curtailment in the context of the revised 2007 national budget. So when Stoltenberg tells the Norwegian Pensioners' Association that he wants to remove the curtailment immediately, it's a bluff." She further states that the curtailment can be removed from tomorrow if the Government will. To remove the abbreviation for those between 67 and 70 years of age who want to work longer, a change in the law is needed. Today, the Progress Party promotes the necessary legislative changes in Section 19. It's true, as the Right-leader says, that the abbreviation can be removed from tomorrow by, yes, actually, it can be removed from today by. When the Prime Minister states that the curtailment is a practice and that it should be removed as soon as possible, it must be today, at least according to my concepts, by the adoption by the Odelstinget of the proposal of the Progress Party to amend that paragraph. In the setting neither the Right, the Workers' Party nor any of the other parties have indicated that they will support our amendment proposal. It's obviously disappointing all the time you've seen that people from different parties have toned this matter in the media and gone quite high on the field. The only way that Stoltenberg and Solberg can maintain some of their credibility is by their parties supporting the proposal under consideration today, so that Odelstinget will adopt it. Then you can apply the law with immediate effect and so remove the abbreviation. It is only through this legislative amendment that you have the opportunity to do so. It is still possible for those parties who have gone high on the ground in this matter to join in and support this amendment proposal. Finally, I would like to support the motion put forward by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1784	The representative Robert Eriksson has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more speakers have requested the floor of the supplementary agenda. [[Footing, see page 796]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1799	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 8 on the map of the day and in the case on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1837	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1847	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1855	In the course of the debate there are 13 proposals. It's: proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Party of Advancements, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 2-4, by Svein Flätten on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 5, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 6 and 7, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and the Left, proposals Nos. 8-10, from Svein Flätten on behalf of the Right-wing Draft No. 11, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 12, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of Christian People's Party proposal No. 13, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of Left The President will first vote on these proposals and first vote on proposal No. 13 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 concerning taxes on wealth and income, point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 14-43 is amended as follows:People's cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furniture, etc. [[tax laws]] – 25 per cent.IIThe change in I enters into force immediately with effect for the 2007 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1907	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:The second sentence of the current fifth paragraph of Section 6 to 50 is replaced by the following:The maximum deduction is granted for gifts under this paragraph up to DKK 15 000 per year.IIThe change under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2007 year of income.» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1932	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 6 to 31 is replaced by the following: minimum deductions are made in gross business income to self-employed persons according to Sections 5 to 30.IIThe change in I enters into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2008. [[tax laws]] [[2]] For the 2007 income year, the change relates to half of the percentages and amounts resulting from Sections 6-32.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e1957	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8, 9 and 10 from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e2023	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the right and left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:The new fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 5-15 is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e2072	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:The third paragraph of Section 5-40 is replaced by the following: Payment of benefits referred to in the second subparagraph is not taxed as income as long as it is paid into individual pension contracts as referred to in Sections 6-47(c) within three months of the date of payment. [[tax laws]] [[3]] The same shall apply to taxable deceased persons in so far as, within the same period, the heirs pay in their own name an amount corresponding to their proportional share of the lump sum, to individual pension contracts referred to in Sections 6 to 47.The present third and fourth subparagraphs shall become the fourth and fifth subparagraphs.§ 6 to 47, new point (c) shall be replaced by the following: The deduction may not exceed 1G. The Ministry may lay down rules on the use of funds in contribution funds. The Ministry may also lay down rules on the prohibition of mortgages and access to the accrual of funds placed in individual pension contracts, and that the rules laid down in the law on insurance contracts for the benefit of individual pension contracts shall be applied mutatis mutandis.Articles 6 to 47, new paragraph (d) shall be replaced by:d. the contribution to continuing insurance under the law on occupational retirement provision § 4 to 9 relating to the policy of freedom issued to the taxpayer as a result of the termination of membership of the occupational pension scheme for reasons other than the age of the taxpayer. The same applies to old-age pension contributions under the first paragraph of Section 6-5 of the Pensions Pension Act as a result of the termination of membership of the Pensions Pension Scheme for reasons other than the age of the taxpayer. Deductions after the letters (c) and (d) may not in total exceed 1 G.The current points (c), (d) and (e) shall become e, f and g. Transitional rule upon repeal of the tax law § 6-47 first subparagraph (c) shall be deleted.The transitional rule upon repeal of the tax law § 6-47 first subparagraph (d) shall be repealed.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2007 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e2114	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e2258	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:The fourth paragraph of Section 2-32 is replaced by the following:The research institution receiving basic appropriations from the State is exempt from the tax liability on assets and income relating to research activities.The present fourth and fifth subparagraphs become the fifth and sixth subparagraphs.IIThe changes under I enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2007.’» [[tax laws]] [[4]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e2844	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e3786	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e3796	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e3804	During the debate, a proposal has been made by the Svein Fleet on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4036	For A new § 4-12 nr. 2nd sentence there is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Alignment Act new § 4-12 nr. the second sentence of the second sentence is replaced by the following: The documentation shall be provided, provided or sent within 60 days of the requirement of the authorities responsible for the equation and shall be retained by the person responsible for the record for at least 10 years after the end of the year of income.»;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4054	So it goes over the rest of A and B.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4064	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4075	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4083	During the debate Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward three proposals, the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4255	The first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section I to Section 26(c) is first referred to as the position I of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4266	Paragraph 26(d) of the first paragraph of the resolution provides an alternative proposal, No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 26(d) of the VAT Code is replaced by the following:Registration traders shall adjust the input tax when the use of a capital product after acquisition, manufacture or completion changes in relation to the deductible purpose.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4283	Section 26(e) of the second paragraph of the resolution contains an alternative proposal, no. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 26(e) of the Value Added Tax Act is replaced by the following:For capital goods as referred to in Section 26(c). 2 is the adjustment period five years after completion. Such capital goods shall be deemed to have been completed when a certificate or a provisional authorisation of use has been issued or when it has been put into service if such certificate or authorisation is not necessary. During the adjustment period, the first financial year in which the capital goods were completed shall be taken into account.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4300	So it goes over the rest of the I and the first paragraph of II.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4310	For the second paragraph of II, an alternative proposal, No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of the entry into force provision shall be replaced by the following:Sections 26(b) to 26(e) relate to acquisitions, etc. of capital goods occurring from 1 January 2008. Capital goods referred to in Section 26(c) 2 is deemed to be acquired after the conclusion of a new, refurbishment or refurbishment contract after 1 January 2008.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4328	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4338	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4346	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Svein Flätten, on behalf of the Right-wing Draft No. 3-5, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 3 From the Christian Party and the Left, says: «The government asks the Government to propose the amendment of Section 11 of the Property Tax Act so that municipalities have to provide for a minimum deduction for autonomous dwellings in all municipalities that print out property taxes.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4406	There is an alternative proposal, No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:50 [[2006-2007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4425	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate manner with supplementary legislative wording to a cultural law that better sees cultural action in the context by simplifying and bringing together today’s fragmented legislation in the field, and at the same time specifies the state cultural obligations.’ This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4502	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4515	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4525	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4533	During the debate a proposal has been put forward by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4730	From the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left there is the following proposal: «Ot.prp. No 55 [[2006-2007]] An alternative will be to vote between the Committee's position and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4748	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4758	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4797	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4807	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4815	During the debate Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘Decisions to the Act amending Law No 28 February 1997 19 on population protection II Law 28 February 1997 No. 19 on social security is amended as follows:Sections 3 to 2 fourth and fifth paragraphs are replaced by the following: However, full basic pension is 90 pst. [[People's Security Act]] [[People's Security Act]] of the basic amount, if the pensioner lives with a spousea) who receives a preliminary disability benefit, disability pension or retirement pension,b) who receives a contractual pension for which a pension credit is made, see Section 3-19, sixth paragraph, or (c) who has an annual income, including capital income, which is greater than twice the basic amount. In addition to those persons assimilated to spouses under Sections 1 to 5, the provisions of the fourth subparagraph shall also apply to consensual couples who have lived together for 12 of the last 18 months. The full basic pension shall be 90 pst. of the basic amount also when the pensioner’s cohabitants receive a pension or transitional benefit under Chapters 16 or 17 § 3-3, fourth paragraph, the following is added:The amount of the special supplement is determined as a percentage of the basic amount.§ 3 to 3 fifth paragraph is deleted.§ 3 to 3 sixth paragraph is replaced by:In the case of a pensioner who fulfils the conditions of entitlement to the spouse supplement for the dependant spouse over 60 years, the special supplement is twice the basic amount.§ 3 to 4, second paragraph is replaced by:For a single pensioner, the minimum pension is the sum of twice the basic amount.§ 3 to 4, third paragraph is replaced by:For a spouse, the minimum pension is 180 pst. The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3-21 shall be replaced by the following: A member who becomes unemployed before the age of 26 due to a serious and permanent illness, injury or suffering clearly documented shall be included in future pension credits of at least 4.30 for each year.§ 19-4, second paragraph, the third paragraph shall be deleted.§ 19-4, third paragraph shall be replaced by: To a person who has reached the age of 67, an old-age pension shall be provided irrespective of the other income of the pensioner.§ 19-6, second and third paragraphs shall be deleted.III, entry into force and transitional provisionsThe law shall enter into force immediately and the effects of the law shall be deferred from 1 May 2007. The changes also give effect to pension cases that have started to run before 1 May 2007.’» The President will first vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4925	Mr Engeset has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4928	This was promoted as a package during the Committee’s very rapid examination of this matter, with a number of proposals for changes to a significant number of paragraphs of the People’s Rights Act. With regard to the amendments to Section 19 of the Progress Party, we supported the vote, and we will continue to do so, because the proposal has an impact date that gives the changes retroactive effect. In its revised National Budgetary Option, the right will promote a proposal that is in principle quite similar, but with a different impact date. But it comes back to the Storting in its own treatment in the context of the revised national budget. The Committee had nominated Odelstingen to take such a decision: Document No 8:101 [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4941	The President has understood that the Progress Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12-lower.ana.ud715e4961	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
