ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e30	We've got a Document No. Eight proposals from the Right that address the need for what they call a more forward-looking agricultural policy, raising important issues related to both process and case. To start with the process, the basic question is: have there been large enough changes in the framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian agricultural policy to create a new big business message and take a new, comprehensive discussion on this in Stortinget? It is mainly shown that food prices have risen internationally. There is evidence that there are new opportunities in the field of bioenergy, and reference is made to the unexplained situation in the WTO negotiations. It is used as a basis and a breaking rod to demand a new staging message. I feel that none of these conditions are so pervasive that there is a need to say thank you and say good-bye to that agricultural policy a broad increase gathered around a well over a half-year ago. Food prices have just increased. They have done so in the last six months, but they are not yet as high as in Norway, and we should still be happy that we have a national agricultural policy and effective customs protection. Bioenergy is primarily an option for Norwegian agriculture. I find it difficult to see how it would change the main objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy, namely national food production and scattered housing. As far as WTO negotiations are concerned, it is unclear where they will end. It would be strange if we as a national parliament were to sit down and guess what the framework conditions would lead to, and then launch a new policy on behalf of an entire industry. It would be on the edge of the irresponsible. So the central party's clear response to the processual, if there is a need for a new agricultural message, is that it is not! The message that is already on the table is a good enough basis. So it's the case, and there's a lot more to deal with. The right is talking about modernisation, i.e. the need for modernisation and the need for other requirements in the future. There is a need for innovation, and there is a need for future adjustment. In other words, we draw a picture of today's agriculture and today's agricultural policy as opposed. This is a description of reality that I want to distance from, and that I think the Right should have stayed a little too good to pull up. Few industries have driven such a degree of innovation, innovation, change and reorientation as Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry have done in the last ten, fifteen and twenty years. There is a lot of new thinking in Norwegian agriculture. You deliver the goods you want to deliver in the form of good products, and you deliver mostly in relation to the market that exists. Some of the assumptions that also underpin the need for a new agricultural policy called forward-looking are called the need for increased predictability and ‘foreseeable framework conditions’. I want to problemate this little neighbor, at least when you look at the suggestions that the Right of Others are promoting in the Storting. Now we've just been through a round where the opposition has presented its state budgets. So the right balances its draft budget with the agricultural agreement – DKK 1.8 billion, or NOK 30 000 per year. annual work. Is it tempting then to ask for the Right definition of the ‘forecast framework’ – whether that is the amount of money you need at all times to balance a budget with when you are preparing the State budget, which is what you call the ‘forecast framework’? Then you take a settlement with the market organizations and the agricultural agreement. In our view, market mechanisms have been a great success. There is a balance in the Norwegian food market, resulting in stable prices and stable revenues. I find it hard to see that you are going to take a settlement with you, and I'm going to put a big question mark on it. The second is the agricultural agreement – the contractual system itself – that is, the one on the right. To create stability for an industry, I find it difficult to see how to do this by removing the contractual system that regulates the formation of income and the formation of markets for one of our important industries and for Norwegian food production. The conclusion for our part is that we do not want a new message. In addition, we believe that many of the proposals made here on the right will contribute in the opposite direction to what is said, and that there is ideology and policy behind this Document No. The 8-proposal more than a real need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e56	The proposers are entitled to the need for a forward-looking agricultural policy. The modernisation and adjustment of policies under the previous government has stopped. However, I doubt whether the instrument to achieve a forward-looking agricultural policy is a big message to be produced in record time. However, in the view of the Left, it is urgent to have a broad debate in the United Kingdom on agricultural policy, in the light of the major changes that have taken place in the last six months. The left has its own comment on the matter and not comments in some areas, as I believe that a proposal for a representative is not appropriate as a document for a broad review of agricultural policy. However, let me point out some of the changes that need to be made in order for us to have a forward-looking policy. We need to get a simpler agricultural Norway. Those who want to bet on the industry must have the opportunity to do so. The Left therefore wants a full review of legislation and legislation with a view to a strong modernisation. There needs to be more diversity in agriculture. Local authorities need to be given greater opportunities for local adjustment and for looking at agricultural policies in the context of other industrial policies. Agriculture must be given less designation, fewer forms, fewer and simpler guidelines. We need a more active housing policy. Small purchases should be made easier to secure housing and to increase diversity. It must be easier to break up an agricultural property so that more people can live there. Agricultural negotiations should continue, but then as a pure income agreement between the farmers and the country. It is necessary to improve legislation in the milk production sector. The left will remove many of the constraints on co-operation, e.g.: the number of participants. The rental of milk quotas must also be allowed. In order to preserve the cultural landscape and prevent re-growth, increased grazing needs to be stimulated. In this regard, I will give tribute to the Council of State and the Government for the actions taken there, and I hope they continue. The real major challenges facing Norwegian agricultural policy are linked to the developments we are now seeing internationally in the WTO negotiations, but not least the fact that we are facing a possible global food crisis with food deficits and significant increases in world prices. The OECD estimates in a report that world food prices will increase between 20 and 50 pst. the coming decade, and that rising prices of basic products such as cereals and milk can lead to social unrest and political problems. We're still getting reports and new media updates on this. Today's Business Tuesday this week, we could read about a British farmer who last year made £85 per. 1000 tonnes of cereals. This year the price has been 180 pounds. Wheat prices have risen by 50 pst. in a short time, and the milk price in Europe has risen by close to 90 pst. to date this year. More examples can be mentioned, but that doesn't allow time. In addition, the sharp increase in demand for meat is coming in China and India. It goes without saying that when demand increases strongly in two 40-pst countries. by the population of the earth, the consequences become dramatic. This is a development that will have a significant impact also on Norway and Norwegian agricultural policy. In response to me in the UK Question Time on 24 October this year, the Minister of Agriculture answers that there is a ‘need to think through what we are now seeing’. There is much more time to think, but there is at least an equal need for action and strategy to meet this development. This is what the Left believes that the Storting should be given the opportunity to debate. I am pleased that the Right and Advance Party are joining in on the Left's proposal on this. If there was a majority in the Chamber for that, there would be an opportunity to debate that particular issue. The more disappointing it is that the majority reject this. I hope the Council of State still takes these signals and sees the seriousness of the situation. The Left believes it is essential that the Government submit a case to the Stortinget on the implications for Norwegian agricultural policy as a matter of urgency in the light of the new challenges. This must be done in good time before the next agricultural agreement is negotiated. Then I completely disagree with the representative Ola Borten Moe, who believes that there are no changes. There have been major changes in the last six months, and it is important to be leading was.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e92	I would like to begin by thanking the proposers from the Right for their confidence. Right-wing government navigation over the previous four years without providing any new biggest communication on agricultural policy. I have to say it is with some satisfaction that I find that the Right now asks me, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, to preside over a new agricultural policy by presenting a big message on the matter to the Storting, where these parties have a majority. The proposers highlight the decline in the number of holdings, consumer concerns and international food markets as significant new challenges in agricultural policy. I agree that a lot has changed in food production and in the use of natural resources nationally and internationally in recent times. I come straight from the General Conference of the Food Organization of the United Nations, FAO, in Roma – I came home from there yesterday. In addition to making a very clear contribution there, asking for reinforced efforts to meet just the challenges that are being discussed in the Stortingen now, I had a number of meetings with many of my colleagues from different countries and central people in FAO management on these issues. There is no doubt about it, also based on what was discussed, among other things. in the United Nations systems, that the importance of climate change for agriculture and food security are now setting new precedents for the agricultural policy debate, globally and in individual countries. We need to respond to these challenges in relation to agricultural development here in Norway too. It's a work that I'm doing, and it's going to be further developed. Agricultural policy shall facilitate climate-friendly agriculture, low-carbon agriculture and food production based on the long-term management of natural resources. I believe that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have taken responsibility for meeting these challenges through what we have done in soil and forest policy. What we now see, not least internationally, strengthens my belief that the way we've started is the right one to continue. In the present proposal, it is when we come to how we are going to achieve the agricultural policy objectives that the differences between the parties in government and those in the right are becoming more apparent. In the vote, the proposers are supported by the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party that the agricultural system should be phased out, that the regional and structural profile of the subsidies should be reduced and that the framework conditions for large units should be improved. I could say a lot about the impact this could have on rural agriculture in Norway. The Right Party and the Advance Party are right when they say that the agricultural agreements have not helped to give farmers the same income development as other groups in the last ten years before I took over as the Council of State, but it has nothing to do with the agricultural contract system. This is simply due to the lack of political will to invest precisely in agriculture and to the use of instruments that could provide a proper income development during the period when the Right was in government. The lack of political will to invest in agriculture is, of course, supported by the proposals that have been presented in the course of the budgetary procedure here in Stortinget, which the representative Ola Borten Moe presented in a good manner at the moment. The consequences of these proposals, with billions of dollars in the budgets of the Right and the Advance Party, would have been quite dramatic for the individual farmer out in the countryside, if they had been given a majority in the Storting when things got up to voting here if not for so long. Fortunately, the Right Party and the Advance Party are far away from the government offices for the time being. I think people out in the countryside should be very happy about that. In fact, if the political situation had changed, I believe that the proposals put forward by the Right and the Progress Party on new agricultural policies could have significant consequences in relation to the impact on the commitment and investment in agriculture due to the fear that it could give of what became the policy in force after the 2009 elections. This would have been a very unfortunate situation for Norwegian farmers. It would have been negative for food supply and for the possibility of establishing a climate-friendly agriculture. Then there is a lot of focus on the possibility of discussing agricultural policy as a whole. The reality is that six months ago, a separate proposal was presented to the European Parliament on agricultural policy, agricultural policy, and the Council is dealing with it. The agricultural policy, the agricultural policy, was thoroughly explained. There is an opportunity for the Stortinget to discuss agricultural policy on an annual basis. Of the issues that have been raised in this debate so far today, it is not easy to understand which Stortinget has not been invited to discuss in the context of the agricultural agreement, which was, in other words, the Stortinget Sea had to debate a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e111	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e114	We're now well and well two years out in this pouring period, and it's approaching the end of this expansion period. So far, this Council of State has not made any particular reference to matters of concern to the Economic and Social Committee. This may be the case of the Council of State, but the Trade and Industry Committee calls for matters which the Committee can debate from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. So in his letter to the Committee, the Council of State says that he believes there is no need for a big message on agricultural policy. It's okay that we get a farm settlement once a year, but in the agricultural settlement you don't think about anything particularly in the future. We now need a case where we can draw some views, maybe 20 years in time. So I wonder, what's going to happen to this state council at all to present some issues to the Storting who's thinking in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e123	How the representative Asmyhr and the Progress Party respond and deal with the views, opinions and conclusions of the Government to the Biggest of Agricultural Policy in the context of the agricultural contract proposal, I can't do anything about it. I believe, as I said in my speech right now, that all the issues raised in the debate today are affected and presented to the Stortinget in connection with the agricultural agreement discussion, which was six months ago. I must say that I am very surprised that the Progress Party and others do not see it as more interesting to go into a debate on the issues relating to the assessments made by the Government in the context of the agricultural agreement than what the representative Asmyhr here suggests, i.e. that there is no arena for a fundamental debate on agricultural policy. In view of the issues being debated, etc., the agricultural agreement is the major issue in which changes and priorities in agricultural policy are being made. A message is not such a concrete matter. It is the agricultural agreement proposal that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e130	I have noticed on several occasions that the Minister of Agriculture refers to family farming. The last one was in answer to questions from the representative Torbjørn Hansen about why cooperative ventures are being discriminated against in favour of less use, when production was recently adopted up for a shorter period. Very well known, there is no clear definition of family use, but since the Council of State refers to the fact that he will specifically prioritise such use, I think it is desirable to clarify what the Council of State thinks when talking about family farming. Is it about a family running the farm? Is it based on annual work, or is it about a size of the uses? Co-operation is clearly outside the Council of State definition, despite the fact that there are families and family members also operating there. What does the Council of State mean by family farming? Is there any clear definition, so that we can relate to it, since it seems to be a priority group from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e139	Family farming, as I said earlier here in Stortinget, is a use where the family's work represents the basis for the operation. With regard to the allegation by the representative Nørve that there is a discrimination at the expense of joint ventures in connection with the temporary amendments to the allowances legislation, there is a mistake. What has been done is that the ceilings applicable in relation to single use and co-operations have become unaltered in the context of the latest amendment to the quota legislation. There is no discrimination between single use and cooperatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e144	The left agrees with the representatives of the industry who say that there is a need for renewal in general and of the operating equipment in particular. There are many bet-win farmers who give up, and import dependency increases. In some productions, we have to go back to the 1970s to find a similar undercover to the one we have today. The booth fan and family farm dream, as we had it in the 1970s and 1980s, are over. Dairy producers face large investments in order to meet the unbundling requirement by 2024. It is called for investment funds and aid. In my county, More and Romesdal, the investment funds through the agricultural agreement were exhausted as early as May this year, and the need for new buildings is great. Young people who want to bet are frustrated. Does the Council agree with the situation description, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that those who want to bet do not leave the industry and go into other activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e149	The situation description of investment instruments gives the impression that this government has removed instruments in relation to what the government where the representative Kongshaug was at the heart of agricultural policy did. Of course that's not right. I also agree with the reality description of many people who want access to investment funds and who want to invest in agriculture. It's very positive and pleasant, not least in a situation where we need to bet, because we have a market that is open to young people who want to run agriculture and food production. So the importance of facilitating young people to bet and develop their use, I fully share with the representative Kongshaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e157	The majority of the Committee points to the following: ‘The agricultural policy of the Government is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration, which includes: it shows that the objective is to maintain a live agricultural holding throughout the country and to ensure an agricultural holding with a varied agricultural structure throughout the country.’;» Last week, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food sent out a bill to consult that, in the interests of animal welfare, land grazing should not take place in areas where large predators such as wolves and bears are protected. At the same time, it is known that the Government wants to triple the wolf population and quadruple the bear population in Norway. This will mean that landslides in large areas of Norway, particularly along the Swedish border, with this legal text will in reality be banned in the future. How do these two government messages relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e167	That was an interesting question in relation to what the vote on the proposal is about, but I would like to answer. The issue is that there is also a situation today where grazing restrictions are introduced in some cases in areas where the ratio of predators to grazing animals, mainly sheep, is such that losses become disproportionate. It has been important for me to get a regulation that ensures the animal owner, the farmer, against financial loss as a result of it. The groundbreaking new feature of the animal welfare proposal, which has now been consulted, is that the link is made permanent. In those cases where grazing restrictions are imposed as a result of predatory stocks, the farmer, the livestock owner, knows that the large community is setting up and providing compensation so that it does not become a harmful sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e174	Both the Council of State and the Council of State party trap Ola Borten Moe are trying to give the impression in this debate that there have been no major changes in agriculture since the Great Britain’s treatment of the agricultural policy report in 2000. That's a pretty incredible statement to come up with. So in that period, the number of farmers has been reduced from 70 000 to about 70 000. 50,000 farmers. There have been major changes in milk production, how many have made progress. We have also found ourselves in a situation where most agricultural productions have been in deficit. I could imagine hearing what kind of changes the Council of State sees for itself before he wants to take action on agricultural policy and possibly invite the Stortinget to a broad debate on future agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e181	We are taking action on agricultural policy every day. The problem is that the representative Asmyhr disagrees with the grips being taken. When we present an agricultural settlement to the Storting this year, which has a historically high framework in relation to what has been done in recent years, it is a step towards meeting the challenges of agriculture. When we work with the housing law and make sure that we get a proper relationship with property owners and who lives on the properties, it's an opportunity to meet the situation in the countryside. Now, when we start work on climate and environmental issues in agricultural policy, which has not been done before, it is a step towards meeting the challenges we see in relation to the environment and climate – to mention some issues. The problem is that the representative, Asmyhr and I, fundamentally disagree on the grips being taken. As far as I know, the representative Asmyhr was just as concerned about what was happening around us, and the need for a new agricultural policy, as the situation was on the contrary a year and a half ago. At that time, the challenge was the large difference in food prices in other countries and in Norway. Now food prices ashore around us have reached a level that is almost like Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e186	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e191	I have a certain understanding that parties that have now voted in favour of dramatic changes in agricultural policy for two years, among other things. for the purposes of the examination of the agricultural agreement, a wholesale notification is requested. Through its treatment, the Progress Party and the Right may be better able to see the consequences of its own policies. Otherwise, I would like to point out that it is gratifying that such a large majority of the committee is united on the central points of this vote, and that the parties of government and the Christian People's Party have found themselves together on several important points. It testifies to broad policy outreach. Moreover, I think Sigrun Eng – before the break – presented our views on the matter in a very comprehensive way. There is a great deal of excitement today in — and in relation to — Norwegian agriculture, among others. we now see an increase in prices of some agricultural products on the world market. I am therefore pleased with our remark to get the Minister of Agriculture to make an assessment of the global situation in relation to the treatment of the next agricultural agreement. This price development, which, moreover, has not reached our target price level, must have a positive and open new scope for parts of the industry. This is going to be exciting. In the debate, farmers are often regarded as a uniform flock and not as professionals in line with others. We must not forget that the farmer is an independent manager, a self-employed person, with special management responsibility. In addition, agricultural policy requires a stronger focus on developing entrepreneurial and innovation. This needs to be given a stronger focus within agriculture. It can help to make even better use of the rural resource base for industrial development and housing, even for people with no direct connection to agriculture. Here, municipalities with their development and management apparatus have an important role to play in interacting with farmers. I would say that there is a much larger room for action for local agricultural policy than it is often given the impression – I have experienced it myself. The sheep industry has very heavy conditions in parts of the country where predator damage is dramatic. It is understandable that many give up, both for animal welfare reasons and for economics. There is therefore a need for increased focus on the competence, capacity and efficiency of management in this difficult area. But a little encouraging is to learn that there is now also the re-establishment of sheep farming in the more peaceful regions of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e204	Few industries have done so much in terms of conversion, as agriculture, said the representative Borten Moe, and he is quite right about that. It's a special achievement, because there are actually few industries that are surrounded by as many regulation and as many control tools as it is. It is a main attitude of the agricultural policy of the government parties that shows that you think you can protect yourself for progress. With that, no one has had particularly great success. The last speeches were that in a big message, the Right Party and the Advance Party would be able to reflect their own policies. Yes, it would be all right to see a picture of a new policy, because looking at today's policy, we see that the number of uses is going down evenly, and there's plenty of room for improvement. The most important asset for an agricultural user is the property you own. Property and agricultural activities are closely linked. The right is concerned with respect to ownership. Then it's quite special that those who depend most on their property in their industry are also those who have the least and the worst ownership in Norway. There is no one else who has a more eroded ownership than those who actually have agricultural property. They cannot convert it to the price it is often valued, there are restrictions on how the building stock can be used, there are restrictions on how joint ventures and real estate disposals can be used. It is these groups that own land, which are subject to the greatest exploitation restrictions, it is in relation to coniferous forest protection and transport options – not to mention that we come from Uppland and Hedmark, and from Telemark and Buskerud, where there are large mountain areas. In the Dovre municipality, for example: I think 70 pst. subject to national park plans. For the first time, national parks are subject to regulation, but also the peripheral zones are subject to regulation that makes the conversion and use of the property smaller than for others. I wish we could make a general settlement with what ownership really means, because in Norway, it's those who are most dependent on using their property, who actually have the biggest restrictions. For them, ownership is a hollow shell, and it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e215	First, I would like to commend the proposers for promoting an offensive proposal in an area where I feel that the adopted policy is about defensive interests. Many newspapers should not be consulted to see that today’s agricultural policy has failed, and only in the period 1995–2005 the 30 000 annual work has disappeared. It is a paradox that when so many choose to find something else to do, the Government continues with the principle of agricultural agreements as if it had been a great success. There is no doubt that a breakthrough in the WTO negotiations will have a major impact on Norwegian agriculture, but nevertheless we do not see any measures to equip Norwegian agriculture to meet this challenge. It may be time to stop the train that has constantly led the agricultural sector into increasing support schemes and regulations, and instead try to unload agriculture into a track where you can have an independent and sustainable Norwegian food production in the long term. Unfortunately, it seems that the Council of State is satisfied with the development of agriculture. The State Council's letter of reply to the Committee on the subject does not open the possibility for the Storting to receive a new notice on the table that could create a wide-ranging debate. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the agricultural agreement as it is designed and practised today places great restrictions on how individuals can operate their own use and the incomes that can be derived from farm operations. At the same time, we see a development in which young people choose to leave the farm. Here you have a big challenge that you haven't taken into account. One of the instruments that seems to limit this flow is increased use of co-operation. I therefore believe it is important to remove the restrictions on co-production and to eliminate the discrimination on subsidies to these co-producers. It cannot be the task of Stortingen to reduce the possibility of co-operation where the farmer can achieve increased leisure time, more orderly working conditions and less risk of investment. The only possibility is to release the industry, let farmers find the forms of cooperation they prefer themselves, and remove the production ceilings. The Progress Party has many suggestions on how a forward-looking agricultural policy can be developed, but I note that the Council of State does not want a wide-ranging debate on this. The size has to do with the possibility of saying yes or no to a negotiated agricultural agreement. It is not a good basis for a broad and good debate, but it is perhaps what the Government fears. Finally, let me quote something that Willy Finnbakk has written, which I think describes the situation we have in this matter: "It is said that when the winds of change blow, some dig down, while others build windmills."
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e235	Agriculture is important for both employment and housing in large parts of the country. It seems that there is agreement among the members of the Committee on this matter. If you go closer to the parties in the seams, you'll see that not everyone wants a policy that contributes to this. For government parties, maintaining a living agriculture throughout the country is an important objective, precisely because it contributes to employment and housing, but also because it is important for the production of safe and safe food and to ensure food supply. The government has shown through practical policies that it wants to be an active supporter of agriculture. We still have to work for good conditions for Norwegian farmers. Agriculture has evolved a lot in recent years, in which the proposers are quite right. Many have made significant changes with good results, and we know that agriculture will continue to develop in the coming years. All industries need to be forward-looking. Time, after all, goes forward, not backwards. It is the government's view that agricultural policy is largely forward-looking and that it has a broad disintegration. Then it's interesting to see what the Right Party and the Progress Party think should be a forward-looking agricultural policy. The agricultural policy of the Progress Party means the hook at the door too much of the agricultural activity around Norway. The state budget for 2008 will be discussed on a later occasion, but I have recorded that the Progress Party's alternative proposals for the state budget have been presented. Billions in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture are the answers of the Progress Party to the agricultural challenges. With all due respect – it is sad reading for agriculture. The proposals from the Right say they want a more forward-looking agricultural policy. The solutions are to cut transfers, reduce instruments and control the market more and more. The government parties know that if you want viable, forward-looking agriculture throughout the country, you have to follow up with transfers, support schemes and other instruments. Collaborations have become a more and more common form of organisation, which I regard as positive. It is understandable that there is a desire to cooperate, to improve working time regulation, more leisure time and more that can be shared by investment. Collaboration is an example of the fact that more farmers have changed for the future. Then there's a discussion about quota ceilings and the number of participants. The government's policy is still firm for so long, and that makes sense, but it doesn't mean forever. It is well possible that in the future you will make changes here. At the same time, it is important that we take care of traditional family use and ensure a varied use structure. Finally, agriculture is facing challenges in the time to come — challenges that government parties take seriously and that we want to solve jointly with farmers. In extending it, I note that there are some major political differences between the replies of the opposition parties to what is the agriculture of the future. However, it can be seen that there is consensus among more than the government parties on the main objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e254	Certainly it is right that the Right Party and the Advance Party have many common thoughts about modernising, about modernising measures in agriculture. That is also evident from the setting. But -- it's nevertheless a fundamental difference when it comes to some main questions. It concerns the level of transmission, the view of channelling policies and the view of market organisations. It is not as a consequence of the fact that the Right is so very similar to the Center Party in the agricultural policy, but more as a result of the fact that the Progress Party in the budget proposal and other matters have been very far away from what is today's policy. The Progress Party has just proposed, as has already been said here, billions of dollars in budget cuts, with immediate effect in next year's budget. It must be stressed that there is a significant difference between wanting to modernise agriculture and wanting to liquidate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e263	There are several opposition members who have said that since supporting current policies, there is no acceptance, or lack of, major changes in agriculture and major changes in the framework conditions of agriculture. It's a crazy premise. Of course, major changes have taken place and major changes are taking place, but the crucial question is whether these changes are of such a nature as to require a new farm notification and a new review. I want to contact some of the representatives that Kongshaug brought up. He thought that we should have an agricultural policy that focused on opportunities and desires, on diversity and variety, on active housing and rational property policy, and then take over the changes in international food markets. These are considerations that I fully share, and I mean the agricultural policy that is being pursued today, doing this in a good way. These are exactly the same objectives and the same thoughts that we base on the policy being pursued. With regard to the international conditions, which many people here have experienced, it is not that the changes seen in the world with lower food coverage and higher food prices raise a big debate where we are going to deregulate and destroy the framework conditions for production in Norway. It's rather the opposite. After all, the medicine will be pursuing an active policy, protecting its own production and ensuring that this country is as self-sufficient in food as possible. Several opposition representatives say they have failed, because there are so many who have left the industry in the last few years. But that's exactly what these parties have arranged for in a far more active way than the take-off that has been within the industry would suggest. The fact that agriculture has left has been a development that this country has been in the last 200 years. We are e.g. have to assume that that, for example. is a technological development which will change this. But my question to the Progress Party is: Is it going to be a smaller departure by making the future less secure, and by cutting big in the agricultural settlement every year when you deal with this – the Advance Party for its part 5-6 billion kroner, and the Right for its part a few billion dollars? So Olemic Thommess taught us about ownership. It seems to me to be something special, given the track record, the right had in the previous magnification period in relation to property issues when it was in the field, but also in general. Børge Burnde has protected more than any other environmental protection minister has done in such a short time, or at least he was very effective. A predatory policy was implemented, which meant that a lot of resources were lost in the field, and the law on Santa Claus was implemented – there was at all no great mood for the Right Property Policy in basic ownership circles during the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e277	It may well be opportune to inform the head of the Business Committee that the representative Børge Brende has today applied for leave from Stortinget. But that the change in course to the Right came so quickly, was something surprising. What the members of the Committee say about the agricultural agreement is the same as the same parties, in particular the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, said about the fisheries agreement in the 1990s. Right there, I think we have a little bit of the nucleus of this. The head of the Industry Committee says that we must be self-sufficient in food in Norway. The state that both the representative Borten Moe and I themselves represent is exporting three million dinner spores every day. There are 150 000 people in the Trondelag, and if we were to eat that food ourselves, we would have to eat 20 dinner spores each. I have hung up after I arrived at Stortinget, but I am unable to eat 20 dinners! In terms of housing in districts, and maintaining the operation of farms around Norway, it is a question of profitability, of course. But it's a lot more than the production of agricultural produce. It's about the total value creation of the landowner and the part of the value creation that the landowner can take out. And there I must be allowed to commend in particular the state council present here today, because he has talked a lot about one thing you can do to maintain the settlement around, namely to increase the number of employees in what he calls new industries associated with Norwegian agriculture. I believe to such an extent that the Council of State means what he says, but I am not quite sure whether he has the full support of the other government parties. Of course, this is about forestry, which is not a new industry, but which has enormous potential. It's about tourism in rural areas, it's about salmon fishing, it's about hunting, it's about bioenergy and small power – industries that needed green certificates, and it's not about increasing taxes and taxes from the government. It's about cabin construction. Hedmark is one of the countries in Norway with the lowest average income, with gas companies that really do well with cabin construction. So the Ministry of the Environment announces that there are too many cabins built in the East – it will soon not be snaufjell again. It is the policy of the Government, while the Council of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food travels around talking about new industries. Of course, protection issues, predatory issues, etc. While important issues are also raised, the fact that more and more farmers particularly involved in milk production become loan holders has not been commented on by the Council of State. Governments have not addressed the fact that more and more people have to rent additional land because farmers who have ceased are not allowed to disaggregate the land. I hope that the Council of State will comment on this in its next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e290	I have to admit that I was put out for a few seconds, because now it was boasted from the Advance Party of the Great Britain pulpit, and I think that almost must be the first time in two years. But it probably went over gradually. I must, as the representative, Mr Moe, briefly comment on what I consider to be a sort of highlight of the debate so far from the representative, Olemic Thommess. To stand on the Spokesman's Chair and talk about land ownership, as the representative of the Right Party did, after what happened in the previous period, and after what Right himself boasts of having done, was a relatively special exercise. So I just had to comment, like the representative Borten Moe. I also think it is worth noting what the representative Røbekk Nørve said in relation to the difference between the Right and the Advance Party's agricultural policy. That's right. That's a fact. Then there are probably a lot of people who will think that the difference of 7,1 billion kroner in cuts and 1,8 billion kroner in cuts on the one hand is big, but both cuts are relatively dramatic compared to cutting the agricultural agreement, as the parties here in the Stortinget now propose. Then the representative Fostervold tradition has believed an article about how bad everything is, and the answer to the representative Fostervold is also, when things are wrong, to cut NOK 7.1 billion, i.e. NOK 120 000 per. annual work. I think maybe there's reason to remind the representative Foster violence, and maybe others, of a few things about the situation now. In fact, we have never produced as much food in Norway as we do in 2007. The demand for Norwegian food has never been as high as it is this year. We produce 2 pst. more meat in 2007 than we did last year. The production of chicken meat is 14 pst. higher in 2007 than it was in 2006. We charge target prices for all products in 2007. We now have record low sales taxes – only the turnover tax change in 2007 represents 300 million. NOK in reduced costs for Norwegian farmers. We are balancing the market for milk, which the representatives of the Progress Party have been very concerned about earlier here. Through the market organisations – I repeat, the market organisations – we can balance the milk market during record time. Investments in agriculture are increasing. We see that we now have opportunities in agricultural policy for meat, which equals 25 000 dairy cows. This means the possibility of industrial development in rural areas. This means the possibility for young people who want to bet on agriculture, because the market is there, and because there is a potential for producing food. Thus, there are now considerable opportunities for food production, for increased cropping, and for more activity in the countryside. In fact, there is a situation that can also be seen – contrary to what Fostervold did – in some positive aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e303	I think the commitment in this matter shows how important it is to have some debates on agricultural policy here in the Stortinget. So far, the opposition has contributed to the emergence of issues of agricultural policy during this large-scale period. It is regrettable that the government does not bring matters forward. The agricultural agreement comes every year, regardless of governments. The Council of State has stressed that it is the agricultural agreement that is the really big matter to debate. A big message is like nothing in relation to it. But what is the agricultural agreement? So the agricultural agreement is a negotiated document, an agreement between the two farmers' organisations and the state. When the agreement comes here to the Storting, the Storting does not have much flexibility in making changes to it, although in principle there are opportunities for doing so. The Council of State accuses the Progress Party of not having any agricultural policy. If the Council of State sits down and reads the comments on the agricultural agreement, I think he will soon find out that it is the Progress Party that has the most comprehensive, the most thorough, the notes, and most proposals on that agreement, including proposals that point forward. The representative, Ola Borten Moe, said that an active agricultural policy should be pursued. I agree. He pointed out that there have always been changes in agriculture. That's right. But his problem is that development has gone in the wrong direction in relation to what both the Senterpartiet and the Bondelag want. It should be a paradox for both Ola Borten Moe and the Council of State Riis-Johansen. When they are out, they preach a completely different message from what statistics and evolution show. In this case, there is a question of getting the Storting on the road to shape the agricultural policy of the future. The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve now came with today's big frenzy. She claimed that there are considerable differences between the Right and the Advance Party in agricultural policy. That's wrong. In a few other policy areas, the Progress Party and the Right are more united than in agricultural policy. If you go in and read all the settings so far in this period, the Progress Party and the Right have basically joined together in almost all the settings. It doesn't matter to argue away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e316	I am pleased to note that I have trotted the centre party very closely in relation to the issue of ownership. I understand that there are a lot of sour toes, or sore toes, sorry – they're probably a little bit sour after a while, because if I had been in that government, I think I'd be mad at more than just toes. Well, you can complain about Børge Brende's peacemaking work, but keep me well: what is it their own government stands for? Mr. Burnde actually opened a new course on how to connect protection and use. But what do we see? The government of which the Central Party is now part does indeed implement a terror regime in the protection areas. Never have there been any tighter conditions for the landowners we're talking about. I have noticed how the representatives of the Centre Party, not least now in the last election campaign, were quite wide mouth both here and there in relation to just protection and use. Then I just have to remember what government you sit in, and how this government deals with exactly these matters. We have e.g. large protection plans for Rondane National Park, coming up to spring. I'm glad we're going to have that debate. I really hope that the Central Party can contribute to the government that the temperature of that debate does not have to be as high as it is now expected to be, when you see the hearing drafts. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e325	The president will only state that the president looked at the glossary of the word "fear regime" there, but the president did not find it – but he made it easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e328	I take the floor for, among other things, to express satisfaction with the agreement of the representative, Ola Borten Moe, with the views expressed in the light of the position of the Left in the agricultural policy. I think that's very nice. I hope that the representative will also have a good influence on the agricultural policy of the Central Party in the future, as well as on the Council of State. What was the tone when the new government took over was that it was now to be invested in family use. You were going back to the 1970s, we had the impression. What former Minister of Agriculture Sponheim stood for, efforts to increase value creation through specialities, and the emergence of diversity in rural areas, etc., had the impression of being downplayed. But lately, I have seen that the Council of State has also begun to talk about just value creation, specialities and getting more out of the products that farmers produce. It's very nice. I would like to welcome the Center Party after also when it comes to those thoughts. But it is a fact that there is a great disintegration among the actors in agricultural policy. It is also a fact that the number of dams in cattle production is falling. Although there is an increase in the number of suckler cows, the number of dairy cows is decreasing more rapidly. Over time, there will have to be a problem in terms of recruitment for meat production. So it's important to grab hold of the moment. Since the 1970s, agriculture has been standing with its backs against the wall. The problem has continued to be overproduction. So the situation has turned upside down in half a year. The whole industry is characterized by confusion, because no one is gripping. I agree that in the situation we are in now, we should have a case for the Storting that gave the basis for a debate based on the new and changed conditions in the agricultural sector, because as long as no signal is given that this situation should now be addressed, the actors believe – and perhaps for good reason – that this continues exactly as before, we are not given the opportunity to invest. It is to bet on family business, it has been said. The alternatives in today's society are there, both in terms of good pay and in terms of leisure time. And if this confusion continues, it's a big minus for Norwegian agriculture. That is why I again ask the Council of State: bring a case to Stortinget. There is a need to discuss a forward-looking agricultural policy in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e339	Just a little bit. I have not said that the Progress Party does not have an agricultural and agricultural policy. What I have said, and what I think, is that the Progress Party has a poor agricultural and agricultural policy, and I stand by that. Then I think the representative Olemic Thommess should, since the representative Børge Burnde is now going to do other things than what he has done, take on the basis of what Right himself says in this room, and what Right himself is concerned about being present and proud of in this room – in relation to a relatively superficial post on property rights, which was held here in place. Then I can assure the representative, Kongshaug, that the representative, Mr. Borten Moe, has and will have significant influence over the agricultural policy of the Central Party and the government's agricultural policy in the future. To the extent that it is reassuring for the representative of Kongshaug, I can reassure him from this position. I can probably also calm down with the signing of any new engagement, as the representative Kongshaug chooses to see it, probably not new. If the representative Kongshaug goes back and looks at what has been said about this pulpit far back in the last century, those issues have probably also been mentioned by me and others many years ago. It is quite obvious that if we are to succeed in agricultural policy, we must always be able to fill the bottom with new activity, new industries, new value creation – whether it is bioenergy, green care, tourism or just to get a little more out of the food than anyone else could have. It's a forward-looking agricultural policy and the only way to succeed in having enough activity in the countryside, which makes us work enough for those we want to live in the countryside and run farms. As the representative Mr. Borten Moe said earlier today: technological developments have driven agricultural development for almost all time, and so will it. The milk robot is the best example of that in our time. It is in a way today's harvester, who then came and revolutionized forestry some decades ago. Neither signed nor anyone else has any ambition or desire to put any lid on technological developments. This means that the only way to increase value creation is to be good enough, to develop traditional agriculture and have a good economy, to develop new jobs every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e350	It was the perspective that Olemic Thommes drew up, which made me need to take the word. He referred to the hollow-out right of ownership for which agriculture is a victim, and drew up a discussion around Børge Burnde's function in the previous government. That discussion is interesting enough. But where I come from – as one hears, it's in the middle of the flat Jären, in Rogaland – there's actually the regulation around the use of the food soil received with thanks from the farmers. This will be seen as a guarantee that they will be able to operate their profession. If we didn't have the regulations that we have on land use, then the temptation would have become too great, because there are millions of dollars in potential for alternative use of the food soil, especially in Rogaland, because there's the settlement so dense. I just wanted to draw that perspective into the debate, that homes are actually the farmers grateful that we regulate the use of the food soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e357	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e365	The size now goes to voting. The matter on the supplementary agenda has been settled and there will be a vote on the items on agenda No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e373	In the course of the debate, Mr Valle presented the following proposals: «II Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 21 June 1996 III on the remuneration commission of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain is added as follows: as a general rule, the regulation of the remuneration of the gross national product representatives and the salary of the Prime Minister shall follow normal wage developments in the world of work, based on the general wage trend in the last year. Where there are specific circumstances suggesting a different regulation, this shall be justified in the Commission’s position on the Storting.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e437	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-4, by Mrs Knudsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 5, from the Left, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a case to the Storting on other and more time-consuming ways of financing a public broadcaster than today’s licence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e464	Proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e494	Proposal No. 1, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for exempting students listed in the People’s Register with an address similar to that of their parents or superiors from the NRK licence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e520	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e527	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. In the course of the debate, the proposals have been converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit a comprehensive action plan to ensure better school management in primary and secondary schools.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess whether it is appropriate to introduce formal qualifications requirements in school management/management for school managers.’ The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e557	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Party of Advancement There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government in parallel with the expansion of E6 on the Gardermoen routes [[Hovinmoen]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e581	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to restate plans for the further development of E6 northwards towards Otta so that appropriate sections are sought to be realised as a OPS project.’ The Progress Party has indicated that they wish to support this proposal in a subsidiary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e598	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The size consents to the development of E6 on the Gardermoen route [[Hovinmoen]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e632	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the construction of rv. 567 Hauge- Lonevåg financed with government appropriations of a total of 186 million. SEK 194 million in total financing plan. krones. The budget asks the Government to ensure that these funds are increased immediately and that the appropriations are covered by the budgetary clearance for 2007.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e666	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Amendment No. 2, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government as soon as possible, and by spring 2008 at the latest, to promote its own case on the impact of Norwegian agricultural policy in the light of a potential global food crisis, with production deficits and significantly higher prices of food on the world market.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e690	Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The government is asked to present its own Annual Report on Agriculture Policy in spring 2008.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22-2.ana.ud607e761	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
