ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e33	The Progress Party believes that it should be a public responsibility to provide for the construction of hospitals. We also believe that public private cooperation on hospital expansion can be very appropriate. We would like to point out that a private supplier of a OPS project has overall responsibility for costs, both for operations and for investments, in line with a public expansion. This will, for example: ensure that the public is protected to a certain extent from any excess of costs. I also want to refer to OPS projects by expanding 64 hospitals in England, where there was a cost saving of between 4 and 8 pst. Therefore, there is no point in claiming, as the Workers' Party does, that OPS is becoming more expensive than the current regime. If you want profitability and more money for patient treatment, this is a sensible way to go. The state acquisition of hospitals in 2002 resulted in many investment plans being iced up and projects being rejected or suspended for an indefinite period, mainly due to a lack of funding opportunities. We also see that today all health businesses across the whole country want to invest in hospital development. At that time, it becomes quite wrong that today only one priority is associated with New Aarhus and St. Olav's Hospital. I understand the representative of Trøndelag, who believes that this is a sensible matter and a sensible investment, but there are thus a number of other areas geographically in Norway where you also want to build hospitals – and take care of people’s health there. In our view, OPS will be able to finance projects in the hospital sector and not least initiate processes around this much earlier than we can with today's system. It is not possible for everyone to be involved in such projects. What is perhaps most relevant in the current situation is that pension funds and life companies can enter into these types of projects in the light of the pension reform and will need to increase long-term low-risk placements. Here, the OPS extension in the hospital sector will be favourable. It is also the case that this will not increase inflation internally in Norway in any way, because these are, in fact, funds already in circulation. Against this background, I am promoting the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, which we have got with us, which reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of OPS [[public, private cooperation]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e49	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e52	I would like to start by stressing that it is and will be a public responsibility to ensure the necessary health care for all, regardless of residence and social background. This responsibility naturally also includes the construction of hospitals. However, as the Right sees it, it may be appropriate to develop Public Private Cooperation in this area as well. In a OPS project, a private developer may have overall responsibility for the costs, both for operations and for investments. Such a model implies that public protection is provided to a certain extent for possible overruns and that incentives are provided for better cost control in the project. A report from March 2003 prepared by the consulting firm KPMG on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Trade shows that 64 OPS hospitals have been built in the United Kingdom with a cost savings of 4-8 pst. in relation to a purely public extension. This has released substances that can be used for more and better patient treatment. With the priority challenges we face here at home, I believe that as politicians we have a duty to ensure that as much of the funds in the health sector as possible go to patient-oriented activities. It seems obvious to me that the government parties have taken a completely dogmatic view of this matter and therefore refuse to consider the possibilities for OPS cooperation in hospital development. With the cost savings documented by the United Kingdom, it is a fact that a private builder can charge for some of the costs, and there are no points, as has been claimed, to claim that such projects are more expensive than public ones. Now it is probably not that public hospital expansion is a demonstration of management and cost control. The new Rikshospitalet was half a billion kroner more expensive than initially assumed and two years delayed. At New Aarhus, 800 million were spent. kr on planning before a single spatula was taken. In a 2003 report, Sintef Unimed pointed out that long planning time and considerable uncertainty around the framework led to increased costs and management problems in the development of public hospitals. I believe that the government parties should justify their positions on this matter with something other than purely ideological arguments about the excellence of public governance. I also wonder a little about the comments of the Left and Christian People's Party. It is difficult to see that private developers cannot be able to discharge overall cost responsibility for as complex projects as hospitals. Now, I guess there are some expansion projects going on in private, which can be said to be as complicated as building a hospital. For example, the development of Snow White and Worm Lange is quite complicated projects that are not subject to direct official control. The right-hand side supports the proposal of the Progress Party on this matter and is in favour of the Government facilitating the OPS project in the context of hospital expansion. However, it is necessary to clarify that such projects need to be considered in an overall priority context. It's important for me to stress it. In any case, the costs of hospital construction shall be financed in some form. It is also essential that projects be designed to capture the need for change. As the Right sees it, public can both learn something and profit from cooperation with private actors. The goal for all of us is to provide patients with the best possible health care, both in the form of the necessary facilities and healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e69	There are different OPS models with different levels of private funding. Common to them is that a private operator is given responsibility for the operation and maintenance of construction/infrastructure, the construction of new buildings and, where appropriate, the operation of the service performed. OPS projects based on private financing through private loans will normally be more expensive than public funding that will have a lower interest rate. OPS projects will result in less flexibility, as the public authority cannot cancel the lease without charging it financially. Less flexibility, in our view, will lead to lower efficiency and thus higher cost. In addition, a private developer shall have profits from the investment, which the public does not need to take into account. A private operator may also go bankrupt, and therefore the public authority will not be able to claim the remaining part of the benefit, such as: lack of completion and lack of follow-up of operation and maintenance. Changes and developments in the health sector are fast. The OPS projects, with their long contracts, will, in our view, result in reduced flexibility, poorer adaptation to changed assumptions and the need for repeated renegotiations. We believe it is important that future investments should also be a public responsibility, and that no hospital projects can ensnare in the queue and thus bind future operating budgets. The increased disadvantages of more expensive financing through diminished budget management, complicated contracts, increased costs associated with private profits and supervision and control, the ability of the builder to go bankrupt and the long duration of contracts do not outweigh the possible positive aspects of such financing. The proposers refer to a report on OPS projects developed by KPMG on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Trade from March 2003, which states that 64 hospitals have been built in the United Kingdom with a cost saving of 4-8 pst. in relation to purely public development. In view of this, they cannot see that there are indications to claim that OPS projects are becoming more expensive than purely public development. The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli calls for what she refers to as real arguments against OPS deployment and not pure dogmatism. I think it's not dogmatism we've been working on, but it has its clear root in reality. I'm going to cover it. On 2 September 2004, the class struggle drew closer to this KPMG report. The class struggle used British experts to find out if this report was credible. Then it turned out that the KPMG report was based on assumed savings before the projects were started. In addition, the methods of calculating the social economy as uncertain and controversial appeared to have been identified and several serious factual errors have been identified in that report. I would also like to refer to a review in The Guardian of England on November 26, 2006. It appears that a public private funding program initiated by the Right Sister Party in the United Kingdom to build new schools and hospitals will cost the community £45 billion extra over the next 30 years. This has naturally created large bridesmaids in England, and the conservatives are also critical of what has happened, even self-critical, I believe. Bjarne Jensen, a professor of economics at the Hedmark High School and former Director of Municipal Credit, calls today's OPS model public waste in the billions class. I think it might be worth listening to more than those parts of the opposition here have chosen to listen to. I think, in particular, that a party such as the Advance Party, which very often says that they are critical of the waste of taxpayers' funds, should perhaps be extra careful about how public funds are used, and in particular go a little closer to the disadvantages of OPS projects of this type.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e88	The left's view in this matter is reflected in the comment that we and the Christian People's Party agree on. I'll briefly do something for this vision. We're not basically opponents of OPS funding in the health sector, but we think this is a model that needs better e.g. for the construction of nursing homes and bus and treatment centres, as has been done in municipalities such as Drammen and Ullensaker, or for patient hotels and parking facilities. We clearly believe that future investments in the development of public hospitals should be a public responsibility, with a progress in the development based on the ongoing framework of promises, as the Stortinget established. Our conclusion is that we do not support the proposal that is being put forward here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e97	It is in the business model that regional health enterprises have a comprehensive responsibility for investment and operation. This means that, as you know, they have decision-making power to assess and prioritise investment projects in the region and to initiate individual projects. Furthermore, it is of course a prerequisite that investment projects are planned so that future costs can be managed within the region’s overall resource framework. I am happy to register that all the committee members agree that it is primarily a public responsibility to ensure hospital expansion. And I want to say that publicly funded hospital expansion has occurred to a large extent after the hospital reform in 2002. It has been invested for about NOK 30 billion during the first five years of the reform, and the investment activity in Norwegian hospitals has probably never been higher than it is now. 30 billion is equivalent to the total investment in Norwegian hospitals throughout the 1990s, at that time in County. It's true that the biggest expansions are now taking place at New Aarhus and St. Olav's Hospital. Large resources have been channelled into these projects. I would also like to remind you that these two projects are the two largest land-based projects in Norway, of a total of $20 billion, or five opera buildings. Nevertheless, there has also been money to implement a number of other slightly smaller developments. As examples of projects completed or under implementation, I can list: extension at Ringerijk Hospital, new Nordflöj at the Hospital Asker and Bærum, 6th construction stage in Westfold, construction stage 1 in Lillehammer, radiation therapy building and own research building at the Radium Hospital, cancer and isolate centre at Ullevål, laboratory building at Haukeland, new emergency reception in Stavanger and phase 1 at the Nordlands Hospital, to mention something. In addition, there are a number of investment projects related to the Pedagogical Surgery Plan and large and small upgrades at the country’s hospital. I would like to stress that not all investments can be carried out at the same time. Using private funding to meet all investment needs and wants at the same time could also create pressures in the economy. The term ‘Public Private Cooperation’ is very broad and covers many different forms of cooperation between the public and private sectors. OPS projects are not contrary to the Health Enterprise Act. However, health undertakings may not enter into contracts with private builders where it is materially such that the economic risk has been transferred to the lessee. In such leases, the lessee has actually purchased and financed it in the private market. It is to compare with taking long-term loans in the private market, which health care businesses do not have the opportunity to do. It is possible to conclude leases without such bonds, but these will usually be linked to extensions where the builder can continue to use the building after the lease term has expired. Examples of such OPS projects are parking facilities and medical hotels. This actually limits the possibility to conclude OPS projects in the case of hospitalisation. All investment projects in health enterprises, including potential OPS projects, must have been evaluated and prioritised within an overall professional and financial framework and must be incorporated into the overall plans and budgets of regional health enterprises. Projects over DKK 1 billion must be submitted to the Ministry before they are launched, in order to ensure overall national governance. OPS agreements may also give rise to a risk of shifting priorities. For this reason, it has been stressed that possible OPS projects need to be carried out within normal frameworks and priorities in order not to commit future budgets. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right stress in their comments that: ‘a private supplier of a OPS project has overall responsibility for the costs of both operation and investment. Such a model implies the provision of incentives for improved cost control.’;» [[...]] It is precisely the same incentives in the business model that companies are given total responsibility for operations and investments. I also believe that this overall responsibility has been effective. Regional health establishments have established good governance and control in the implementation of structures, and projects under the direction of health establishments have been adopted and completed within agreed cost frameworks. I would also like to add that the Government has announced an increase in the company's appropriations for investments of NOK 1 billion per year and will return to this, among other things. in the budget for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e124	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e127	The undersigned cannot use the Class Fight as a witness of truth to private developers, but I will nevertheless ask the Council of State a question. At the end of its intervention, the Council of State said that, in the case of public development, cost controls are in place and they are carried out within agreed frameworks. Now I've been in this house for a few years, and I remember well when we adopted the St. Olavs Hospital extension, and then we've got that case x number of times back again with ever new frameworks related to the costs. I guess a hospital is what's inside the building body itself. The building body itself is not a large and complicated project, among other things. the technical that is to be brought in, and it can actually do as well as the public as it can do in private. We can see that when, among other things, for large oil installations and others, that it can be carried out by private individuals. My question to the Council of State is: what is the big problem related to the actual expansion of the house, as long as the Council of State itself is responsible for the whole and the approval of the possible expansion? What's so wrong with the fact that private people can be involved in financing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e138	As the representative Nesvik first mentioned St. Olav's Hospital, I would say it is right that we have had quite significant challenges there because things have not been done as they should have been in the past. In the case of investments, I can refer to phase 1 at St. Olav's Hospital, which is the last hospital project where the Stortinget established the cost frame. That project has now completed 600 million. kr below the cost framework foreseen by the Stortinget in 2001 so that, after the government assumed responsibility for the hospitals, the investments in hospitals have become more controlled. I believe that we invest and build a lot in the hospital sector. We're going to build more. It is also one of the reasons why the government has announced that we are going to escalate the investment appropriations, just to be able to build more, modernise more, and not least to buy more equipment. Therefore, we do not believe that the main response here is to join Public Private Cooperation. In some demarcated areas it is possible, but it is the regions that need to be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e145	Harald T. Nesvik has asked for another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e149	I would like to follow up on this, because the Council of State did not answer my question. My question is: what is the big objection to using private capital in these expansions, precisely because it is to be presented to the ministry? All extensions in excess of DKK 1 billion shall be approved by the Ministry before implementation. At that time, the Council of State has continued to exercise both responsibility and control over the kind of hospital to be built. In the case of St. Olav's Hospital, I can only mention that the sum was initially NOK 4.6 billion, then NOK 7.5 billion, and now no one knows what the final bill is going to be. Speaking of public construction and cost control, the Council of State itself stated that hospital investment corresponds to five opera buildings. Yeah, no one knows, because we're always missing out that the cost of the Opera is also increasing. It is a public project — completely out of control in terms of cost. What do you have to lose?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e158	First of all, I don't think it's right that the expansion of the Opera is out of control, rather economically. Neither are our hospitals. I maintain that there has never been such good control of hospital development as it is now, after the state assumed responsibility for the hospital. And we build more than ever. We spend billions more now than we did when the county councils owned hospitals. That's right, and that's necessary, because we also have to modernise our hospitals. Within the corporate model we have, it's limited where we can use OPS cooperation. You can do it, for example. in the case of parking facilities or medical hotels, but we believe that it is not the best solution, nor is it permitted directly in that form of large hospitals. I also think it is important to say that we cannot do everything at once. We need to have overall control over how we phase in the expansions we're now going to do. The government has announced more about the public budgets. I believe that in this way we will be able to take care of the necessary developments in the future, without going into OPS for the construction of ordinary hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e165	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e168	It was with regret that I read the majority position of the Health and Welfare Committee on this matter. It seems to me that the majority have not understood what the proposal is about, or that they reject it for ideological reasons with a rather weak argument. OPS means Public Private Cooperation, and we know from experience that the red-green spikes are released as soon as private operators are mentioned, especially in the context of the health and care sector. Therefore, we again find well-known arguments that private individuals should have profits, queues and impaired governance in the comments of the majority. The proposal, which was supported by the members of the Health and Care Committee of the Progress Party, is about the OPS project in hospital development. It might have been a strength for the matter if everyone had dealt with it. The benefits of the OPS project are that we get cheaper and faster deployment when the deployment can be planned independently of annual appropriations. We have better operating conditions and significant operating savings when developed by the operator. The risk will lie with the performing private company which can most cost-effectively reduce this particular risk. We will have a high level of security of supply when the public pays, only when the plant is finished. Development costs will be known in advance and the real risk to the public will be priced. Experience from England shows that hospitalisation as a OPS project could provide a saving of around 5 pst. If you look at the projected cost of a new Eastfold hospital in Kalnes, Sarpsborg, then such a saving would be a quarter of a billion dollars. This is just one of many building projects that are on the bed in the hospital sector. I ask myself, is it because we have it too well here in the country and at least on paper waters in money, that the majority can avoid saying no to such a saving option? The church, education and research committee has just come home from India, and there was public, private business, which we saw widely used, with good results, but then India is going down now, with an annual growth of 8-9 pst. The majority are of the opinion that hospitalisation is to be done exclusively under public authority. It means in plain text that one does not want these possible savings. It also means that hospital expansion still has to depend on the annual appropriations from Stortinget. We again know that these appropriations are limited by the majority's alleged loyalty to the rule of action, in order to avoid overheating the Norwegian economy. The result is that the most necessary hospital expansion is postponed in time. As a result, hospitals have to struggle with old and inappropriate building mass, which ultimately undermines the ability to operate optimal and good patient care. The hospital Østfold was probably one of the most advanced projects when the state assumed responsibility. The project is one of the first hospital development projects to follow a new economic regime. In the case of the Hospital Østfold, it has been established that the current building mass cannot be kept in operation longer than until 2012 without the need for structural improvements of between 800 million. NOK 1 billion and NOK 1 billion. I expect the majority to ensure that Health South-East is provided with the additional funds that will be needed when the possibility of rescheduling the project with the associated savings is rejected in view of any OPS project during this deployment. One of the last moments I want to include is what we're making in our proposal that pension funds and life companies now have huge sums of money that they want to place in a long-term way with low risk of capital, just to secure future pension payments. I would ask those who now say no to open up the opportunity to invest this money in the rational development of hospital buildings, to think about what the alternative is. It would, in my view, be directly tragic if the opportunities were limited to investing in mall expansion or investments in countries with which Norwegian businesses compete. I will allow myself to ask whether there can now be other areas where the majority will assess the possibility of Public Private Cooperation, so that large parts of these pension funds can be invested for the benefit of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e187	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2150]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e195	The size should then vote in the cases on today's map. In Case No: 1 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e205	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 4-7, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 8 and 9, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 10, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 11, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up a national target of 5,75 pst. the share of biofuels by 2010 and the imposition of a turnover ban to contribute to that target.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e238	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 10, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present an investigation and assessment of a trading order in the notified notification of sectoral climate action plans and in the revised national budget for 2007.’» The President assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Left want to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e255	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e279	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e315	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e371	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e379	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish its own ombudsman system for mentally retarded people. The Ombudsman’s procedure must have real influence and the necessary sanctions against the service provider.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e405	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a State and mandatory registration of deaths in donor hospitals linked to the possibility of donating organs in all deaths.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e442	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind the vote, so it is expected that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e474	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of OPS [[public, private cooperation]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-2.ana.ud555e540	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
