ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e22	The representatives Jan Petersen, Sverre Myrli, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Per Ove Width, who have been authorized, have again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e27	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Mr Jensen, Mr Sortevik, Mr T. Nesvik and myself on Kyoto measures with a focus on cost-effectiveness and benefits for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e32	The representative, Olemic Thommessen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e35	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Elisabeth Aspaker, André Oktay Dahl, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Svein Flötten and myself on the investigation and implementation of the Internet-based service portal for the purchase of places in child protection measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e40	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e59	On Friday, the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Åslaug HagaState Council Odd Roger EnoksenState Council Trond Giske The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to those who have subscribed in advance, would like to ask the main questions will be asked to stand up. – We will then start with the first main question, from the representative Børge Burnde.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e78	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Before Christmas, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg launched the largest merger in the Nordic region, the Statoil–Hydro merger. Statoil becomes the Nordic's most dominant company, and also, as the Council of State itself said in Stortinget on 10 January this year: ‘This new actor will clearly become dominant on the Norwegian pedestal.’ The company is controlled by more than 80 pst. of all the operatorships of what then also accounts for the very largest and most important tax revenue of the Norwegian State. There is no doubt that when you get such a dominant position, there are also a number of competition policy issues. Competition on the base has contributed to Norway’s high and stable and good tax revenues. Therefore, the Energy and Environment Committee asked the Council of State on 11 May this year whether the Government has otherwise requested the Competition Authority to express its opinion on the merger. If not, why? So the State Council answers the Committee on 22 May and says that no, Norwegian authorities have not expressed their opinion on this. He writes: ‘In this case, it was decided that the Norwegian authorities should not comment.’ On 24 May, Today’s Business reveals that the Competition Authority has given its opinion to the Government in a 15-page letter on a draft letter to the EU competition authorities on implications and further comments and identified several areas in need of further investigation. Why did the Council of State not decide to reply to the Stortinget on the Competition Authority’s report? Is it so that the government decided that the merger is not a problem, and then decided that neither the Stortinget nor anyone else would know that it could be a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e101	I have after that that the answer went to Stortinget, also in the media stated that the answer unfortunately was somewhat unpresidious at that particular point. The Government has nothing at all to hide from the report, or note, that the Competition Authority has drawn up in an ordinary way to the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. It's the ordinary procedure that it's done. All correspondence around this has been on the post-report of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration and has thus been available. But unfortunately, my answer to that point was unpresist. It is therefore not the case that the supervision of competition vis-à-vis the EEA authorities, or vis-à-vis the EU competition authorities, has an independent function. It's the government that speaks out in these kinds of questions. The Competition Authority was and is the subsidiary of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration in this type of case and was of course asked. Then, of course, as I have claimed from day one, the new company will have a very strong position on the Norwegian base. Now, of course, the company itself has good reasons to compete. It is the worst company that can do to weaken competition. All the experience has shown that just the diversity we have, and the many companies we have in the supplier industry, have brought Norway where we are, world-class on technology. Statoil enjoys it, Hydro enjoys it, and it will also benefit the new company. Therefore, weakening competition will be one of the worst things that this company can do. We are committed to maintaining competition. I am committed to maintaining it, and have also addressed it strongly in the roll-out proposal now under consideration, which we are going to debate in Stortinget as early as this week, so that we have ample opportunity to come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e110	I agree with the Council of State that one of the worst things that can happen is that competition is weakened on a Norwegian base. That would be bad, not least for the Norwegian authorities. But I think maybe it's a little naive to believe -- and assume -- that a company that's going to be holding 82 pst. of the operator’s responsibility, is that which will as far as possible safeguard competition. That's just not how it works. That is why we have authorities to ensure that there is competition in the market. The entire proposal of the Council of State bears the impression that it is going well enough, the company will take care of this. Then I'm probably more concerned about the future development we're going to see, because it was announced that compensatory measures would be in place. When the company becomes so dominant, it simply has to take initiatives and implement measures to strengthen competition. I wonder what concrete proposals it is in the Proposition of the Government that show initiative in strengthening competition on Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e115	There are several things that will be done in the future. First of all, we want to follow developments very closely. It is true that the new company will be large as an operator in the coming years. It will change over a relatively few years. A number of new companies on the Norwegian base have received shares and also become operators, not least initiated by the previous government. These will eventually have a strengthened place on the Norwegian base. Secondly, it is a task for me to contribute to ensuring competition between suppliers. We're talking about a little bit of different things here. I am committed to maintaining a diversity of supplier companies to develop the best technology. We can do that in many ways. Among other things, yesterday I had a meeting in what is called the Top Leader Forum, where just a national strategy that intends to develop the supplier industry as one element was the topic. It was well received by the industry that was present yesterday, and will be among the things that we want to work with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e122	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e125	There are timely questions that the representative Burnde raises. The size seems more like a bothersome rounding bend for this government, and you take very easy on both deadlines and information flows, which should really be a matter of course. It is probably the usual use of control access that we see from the Workers' Party. What surprises me even more is how easy it is to take on the promises of an active industrial policy and active ownership. So when we look at what's in the StatoilHydro case, we don't see any proactive measures in this process except that you have to follow closely, you have to have dialogue, and you have to strengthen Petoro with some positions. In addition, there is no pro-active grip where the Government shows what the active enterprise policy and ownership consist of. The question is whether the Council of State against Stortingen can clarify the distinction between this government and the previous government in terms of active ownership. Can the Council of State point out some areas in which this government is proactive and which it is assumed that the previous government would not be?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e132	I think in a number of areas it's easy to see the difference. Last week's media release on the Government's attitude to senior wages in state companies is one example. The ownership message, which Stortinget has received, shows the government's ownership policy. Now we're talking about a little bit of different things. When Petoro is mentioned in this context, it is one of the administrative bodies responsible for ensuring the participation of the State on a Norwegian base. It has nothing to do with active industrial policies. It is necessary to strengthen and look at how to meet the new situation on Norwegian soil through Petoro, through the Oil Directorate and through the ministry's work. So let's think about that right now. We will follow that closely in the future. Secondly, research and technology development are topics that will be central to strengthening Norwegian capital in the future. In this area, we have increased the appropriations for research. This is something that we will also follow up in the future. Ensuring competition between the various supplier companies is central to continuing to prosper on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e144	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e147	StatoilHydro-saka is one of the most important industrial policy issues in a long time. She will have major consequences in many areas, both for society, for businesses and for individuals. Therefore, it is also important that all information is provided, and that the information is embarrassingly accurate. That's why it's a pretty serious matter when the government here says that he's "sorryly" given imprecise information to the Stortinget. My question is: will the Council regret that he has given misleading information to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e152	I should have liked to have seen that the answer had been more precise, as I also said in my first response to Børge Burnde. That doesn't mean, however, that the government has made any attempt to substantiate this kind of information. The note from the Competition Authority to the Ministry of Renewal and Administration was part of a very ordinary procedure that is common in this type of case. It was in the mail records. Of course, it should have been mentioned in my letter, but what I was concerned about was the reality of the matter, namely that the Norwegian authorities had not seen any reason to comment on this matter to the competition authorities of the European Commission. The answer should have been more precise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e157	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e160	This case has made political commentators use quite powerful expressions about the management of the government and the state council, with the majority power to do stupid things, and it's about breaking the usual democratic rules. Now we have had very special starting minutes at this big meeting, where the Council of State has gone a long way to regret it. He has used the words: 'unfortunately' was the answer 'unresist'. In my opinion, it is confirmed that there is a misleading, deficient information given to Stortinget. Then there is only one thing left, and it is that the council actually regrets that he has given misleading and deficient information to the Storting and not only would have liked to have seen that the letter had been more precise. Does the Council of State regret the lack of information to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e167	As I have already answered several questions: what was fundamental to me was to have the reality answered on the question from Børge Brende, namely whether the Norwegian authorities had seen the need to speak to the EU competition authorities. We have not done so, after careful assessment by the Government, because the EU competition authorities are the right authorities in this type of case. The case in question was discussed in the EEA Committee on Competition, where all relevant departments were represented. We stated – on the basis of their recommendations – not in this case. The Competition Authority is the subsidiary of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration in this type of case. As I have said repeatedly: Just the fact that the Competition Authority has written such a note to the Ministry of Consumers and Administration, should of course have been mentioned in my reply. But the basic thing is that we, as authorities, have not spoken out on this issue. I have answered this repeatedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e175	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e178	It's not that the government can expect the Storting to read the postal records. The Government has an obligation to disclose information to Stortinget. On a question raised by this Council of State on 10 January, it promised that all aspects of the merger would be elucidated, including – not least – the competitive aspects of all the opposition parties. It promised the Council of State to disclose it. It is then decided not to disclose that the Competition Authority, which is the competent authority, has objections and that the State through the Ministry has tried these objections and has not addressed them to the EU. It is in and of itself the privilege of the Government. But it's really not the government's privilege at the same time to decide that this was unnecessary to inform the Storting about. I think the Council of State should regret this from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e183	No, I don't see any reason for that. What I've said is that the answer to the Storting should have been more accurate at that point. I would have liked to see that. There was no attempt at substantiating information at all, as many are now trying to present it as. That memo has been available. Of course, it should have been said more clearly in my reply to Stortinget. I have admitted that I would have liked to have been more specific about this. So it's not like the Competition Authority had strong objections to the merger. What is stated in this note is that the Competition Authority would have liked to have highlighted a number of issues, such as: what I have said from one day on will be one of the most demanding areas of the merger, namely competition in the supply industry and competition on Norwegian soil. We have never hidden the fact that it could be very demanding. It will also be one of the areas that we will follow closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e190	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e193	My question goes to the Council of State Åslaug Haga. Elder care in Norway is still facing major challenges, problems and lack of qualitatively good supply, based on regular media coverage. Every time this is up in the Storting, the members of the Government answer that they have strengthened the municipal economy. In reality, the Government has actually resigned from responsibility for the care of the elderly, as both home care, home care, nursing homes and nursing homes are a purely municipal task and a municipal responsibility, and the Government has no means of intervening in the provision of elderly care services, with the system chosen by the Government. The Progress Party wants a state responsibility and opportunity to intervene in order to ensure an elderly care that rails, with which the Council of State is well aware. But in the case of the municipal economy, no real growth has been announced for the municipalities in the municipal proposition. Otherwise, it's the government's talk of full child-care coverage that's really in the first place. We've never heard government members talk about full hospital coverage being some goal of the Government. So my question is, is it that the government has now given up full coverage according to the officially recognised needs for home care services, home care services, nursing care services and nursing home services, as it no longer increases the municipal economy in particular? And the second question: would the Council agree that the only possibility for the Storting to directly provide care for the elderly is to provide earmarked appropriations? I know this is now about an investment grant for new buildings next year – we don't know how big it is – but nothing for operation. What will the Government do to ensure that we receive sound, acceptable and optional care for the elderly in Norway when the local economy is no longer strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e205	The government is pleased with the commitment of the Progress Party to care for the elderly – we share that. Then we have different approaches to how we can improve the extent of care for the elderly, and not least the quality of care for the elderly. The government will strengthen municipalities financially with a total of DKK 20 billion in the period 2005-2008. In addition to the €20 billion, municipalities will have €6 billion more in extraordinary tax revenues that came in 2006. This is a formidable rise. Then it is right that municipalities should spend the money on different tasks – whether it is care of the elderly, school, culture, business development or other things that they need to give priority to. What the government sees is that the municipalities do exactly what we expect: they spend a large proportion of the increased income on care for the elderly. This is reflected in the macro figures, but it is also reflected in the fact that we can demonstrate that in 2006 we received over 3,900 new annual work in the care of the elderly. There is a formidable investment in the care of the elderly in Norway, and Regeringa is happy about it, because there is a huge need for it after the municipalities have been hungry for many years financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e212	I could start by repeating the question, because I talked about the future and not the past, and in the future there has been no notice of any increase for the municipalities that can further increase what the council claims she is concerned about, namely the extent and quality of care for the elderly. In reality, the government has no direct influence either on the scale or on the quality of care for the elderly. Access to professional staff has been hampered by the government reducing the provision of nurse training, by creating difficulties for the private sector in nursing training. In reality, the government admits that it has no instruments and is completely dependent on the priorities of the different municipalities. And the goal – can the Council of State admit it? – is primarily to ensure full kindergarten development. When will we be able to expect the Government to say that there is an explicit target of full care provision training for the elderly and that it is willing to use the necessary earmarked instruments — direct money — for the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e221	Firstly, in the municipality's 2008 bill, the representative Hagen will see that the municipalities will have an increased room for action in a place between NOK 2.6 and 2.8 billion, and that's before we start applying the earmarked schemes. It emerges through the traditional free revenues, a new resource-intensive user scheme and a growth based on increased tax revenue that was not foreseen in this year and is continued until next year. One thing is certain, and that is that the answer to the elderly care challenges is no more earmarks, it is no more bureaucracy, it is no more government-making, which is the answer of the Progress Party. To finance the unit price and to use the State input topics proposed by the Advance Party [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e228	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e231	Norwegian care for the elderly is probably neither the lack of bureaucrats nor the lack of generals; it is the lack of foot soldiers. It is a fact that in no other sector we keep to such a dramatic number of unskilled as in the care sector – 35 pst. We have just dealt with an old-age care message from the Government, and in that communication there are no defined ambitions as to how to deal with this problem, the lack of expertise – not least in the health care sector. Yesterday’s newspaper had a report showing that mismedication and over-medication are a daily problem in the health care sector all over Norway. How does the Council of State see that the Government can contribute to increasing medical coverage and nursing coverage in the health care sector in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e236	It is a fact that we make poor use of labour in care and care in Norway. I think we're wasting our labour force in this sector. It's done in several ways. This is done, among other things: by the fact that too many people have to work in small job fractions seams if they want larger fractions. It's because we don't have a good enough senior policy. It's also in, unfortunately, that we have too much sick leave. We will also address some of the challenges related to nursing and care professionalism if we manage to make better use of the trained labour reserve we have. But no matter how you turn this around, we can't create a good care for the elderly if we don't have enough labour in the sector, and it's the municipal economy that's the best basis for it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e241	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e244	During the previous two periods of ageing, this was able to cooperate on a power plant to expand hospitals and nursing homes in Norway, with earmarked money and with the Centre Party and the other government parties on board. Now the Centre Party, and the government parties, refuse to participate in a corresponding long-term commitment to the quality, content and development of Norwegian care for the elderly in the future. I think we have now been given an explanation of why – because we have wondered: it is, of course, an almost fundamental and intrusive resistance from the municipal minister and the head of the Senter party to earmarked contributions to the care of the elderly. My question is: what has happened from the previous two periods and to the situation now that the Center Party, and the Government, is against the means for which they actually were, and which have proved so successful that the Riksaudition has signed that it was a success?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e251	In the last four years of the Christian People's Party in government, the municipalities experienced a very difficult economic development. The government had a demanding starting point when we took over responsibility for the municipalities in 2005. We have now spent time upgrading the municipalities financially and taking back what was in the inheritance after Bondevik II. Now we have the municipalities up and running financially, and we see every day that the provision in the care of the elderly is expanded. We are now systematically developing quality. We're going to use earmarks on very special bets. I also have to remind the representative that the Christian People's Party has traditionally been a big fan of free money for the municipalities. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e258	The President will ask the Council of State to try to stay within speaking time. Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e263	The government boasts that the municipal sector has received billions and that now all problems in the municipalities will be solved. I noticed that the Council of State said earlier today that she is happy that the municipalities are doing just as the Government will. Yesterday we read in the papers that the Health Department has discovered that the elderly have to be shelled to protect co-patients, because there is too little staff. In April, there was a look-up in NRK Sogn and Fjordane where a report that patients in the municipality of Naustdal, who have central party directors, often have to lie in their beds all day, and that they get a shower every 14 days. The government has said it will shine off the elderly. My question to the Council of State is: Is there a description of the care of the elderly, for example. in Naustdal in line with Regeringa's goal of shining out the elderly? And does the Council of State think that the transfers in the municipal bill 2008 are sufficient for the shower frequency in Naustdal to be increased to at least once a week?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e273	The government or this state council has never said that all problems are being solved in Norwegian municipalities. Rather, we say that we still have major challenges in the municipal sector, including: in the care of the elderly. Then it shouldn't surprise anyone that we're not in the goal of strengthening the municipalities, because the Soria Moria statement says that we can't do that until four years have passed. It is in 2009 that we should be able to say with our heart that we have such a reasonable balance between the tasks that the municipalities have and the money that they have at their disposal. It is not possible to clean up the inheritance after Bondevik II in a few years. But we're doing well, and a contribution to the economy of over 20 billion dollars in three years is an expression of that. However, we still have many challenges: we need more teachers in school, and we definitely need to continue to strengthen care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e280	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e283	Never before has the revenue of the State budget been higher, and never before has there been a higher proportion of the health care sector. This government makes sure that sick people pay the bill to a large extent. In the nursery sector, government funds are earmarked to ensure rapid development in order to put in place full childcare facilities. Initially, this is about being able to offer services to healthy children by healthy, ready-to-work parents who are at work. So in the case of lack of hospitalization and being able to offer sick people places that are badly needed, the government will not do the same. How long does this government intend to give priority to healthy, working people in front of those who are sick and need care? And when will the Council of State stop talking about the past and start concentrating on the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e290	I'm talking about the future every single day, and that's why we've arranged to strengthen the municipal economy for next year with billions of dollars. This will also benefit the care of the elderly. The problem is that they have a model of care for the elderly that will not work. What you're saying is that government ingestors should sit and evaluate who's going to get what help at any time. And my question is, what's going to be so much better about it that there are government employees who are assessing what help the individual is going to get, and not those who are closer to people, namely people who work in the municipal system? They're able to see the individual as a whole, they see that during periods you need home help, you might have to go to the hospital for a period of relief, and then you might need space. The propulsion party's system becomes rigid, state-made A4 solutions tucked down over the heads of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e297	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e300	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Hydropower has contributed to local communities being built ‘where no one would believe anyone could live’. We have a long tradition in Norway to use renewable energy as a power source. Hydropower is a dominant energy carrier. But it's limited how much more we can build out of new power generation. We still have a high potential in anincreased approach and savings measures. There's no doubt about it. But new strategies for increased energy generation are needed by facilitating more use of power from gas power plants, and we have an emerging debate on nuclear power. In many ways, we're at a crossroads, and it's always a good idea to know which way to go before we start going. That is why we believe that we should have had an overall assessment of our energy policy. But in the situation we're in now, it's worrying us, the captivating bet that the government is showing on the sun, on the wind and on the bioenergy. The main instrument of the Government is the grant from the Energy Fund. This has produced few results, and the 30 TWh target of increasing renewable energy production by 2016 is becoming more difficult and more difficult to achieve for each day at the rate we now see. In such a situation, where the Government’s actions and instruments do not deliver results in new production, will the Government maintain the 30 TWh target from renewable energy sources?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e313	The answer is yes. The previous government removed during its government period the appropriations for the State budget for renewable energy investment and instead introduced a consumer tax on one ear per year. kWh, which in the course of that period gave Enova nearly 700 million. kr annually at availability. What this government has done is to have more than doubled that allocation, first through the creation of a fund of DKK 10 billion, which will be increased by another DKK 10 billion in the next round. It'll give us 800 million. NOK in addition to the SEK 700 million. kr that is already within Enova. These means shall be used for renewable energy investments. Because that's right, as the representative says, we still have a great potential. Not least on energy efficiency improvement, we have a great potential to exploit. So it's not a taboo bet. I don't know what you want to characterize the bet from the previous government that, if this is a lost bet. So we've more than doubled the appropriations, we'll bet offensively, and the goal of 30 TWh is fixed. We're going to achieve that goal. As I've said before, it's not the target of 30 TWh that will be adjusted, but the government will follow closely from year to year as to whether the appropriations given are sufficient to achieve the goal that we've set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e322	It was time for the government to follow along. Finally, the Council of State admits that the support system it has put in place is not working. These 10 million times 10 million that make up the Energy Fund are not enough. Finally, the State Council in Stortinget says that he will come and see from year to year if we need more money. There are some of us who have said for a long time. The U.N. says we need to bet, the low-emission committee says it, the industry says it, the energy companies say it. But how long does the Council of State have to spend before he brings in new money? How long do we have to meet the climate challenges we face? Can the Council of States now promise that it will come in 2008, or can the Council of States be involved in evaluation in 2009? When will the Council of State bring new money for new renewable energy deployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e327	Ten million. kr was probably more in line with the bet of the previous government. What this government has invested is $10 billion, and we're going to increase by another $10 billion. So there's an increase that no previous government has been close to doing in this area. I have also not said that this is about changing the rates. We are already showing good results. Last year, Enova achieved results that were better than what has ever been done in this area, not least in energy efficiency and bioenergy investment, which are the two areas where it is happening most recently. That's positive, because there are actually two of the areas that are least controversial, and where we have a significant potential. Sweden uses as much bioenergy as we produce hydropower in Norway. We do not have such a high potential in Norway, but we have a significant unsolved potential for the use of bioenergy and district heating. It is one of the most important areas of activity, and we can already show good results there. Then it's energy efficiency improvement. I mentioned earlier the example where Enova spent 250 million. kr has triggered 600 GWh of energy savings in three industrial enterprises. It's good results to show.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e336	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e339	It's always interesting to hear when the government talks about its enormous commitment to renewable energy. There is no one on Stortinget who has objected to a bet in this area. What you've discussed is what kind of system you're going to use. When the Storting had a consultation on renewable policies, all 14 hearing bodies present said that the system chosen by the Government is wrong in trying to achieve the objectives it has set itself. All of them said that this system of state subsidies is not the best way to meet the 30 TWh target. Nevertheless, the government has questioned this and for a long time said that it should be firm in any case. It is then positive that the Council of State today says that one of the closest active assesses this from year to year – it is a positive innovation. However, given that the lifetime of most power projects is five to six years from the start of planning until they are completed, it is already urgent for industry to know that the money will be there. When will the Government present a new evaluation of the case, so that we can actually be sure that we achieve the target in 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e345	First of all, I would like to remind you that this scheme will be implemented from 2008 onwards, and then in Stortingen to start asking for an evaluation before the scheme enters into force, I think I might be out a little early. I have also not said that we will continuously evaluate this scheme. What I've said is that we're going to keep looking at the level of funding – that is, whether we're going to spend 1.6 billion dollars, 1.7 billion dollars, or 1.8 billion dollars, or what we need to use to achieve the 30 TWh target. We will follow that closely from year to year. The target of 30 TWh is fixed. So it's not like everyone thinks that the system that we've put on is a worse system than other systems. On the contrary, there are also reports showing that green certificates, as many wanted, can actually be more likely to collapse and that the type of support schemes that the Government has now decided to have in Norway. Then, of course, we can discuss whether the support rate is large enough – that's another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e352	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e355	This government may stand out first and foremost by being incredible history falsifiers. In retrospect, I'm sure it'll be judged. But I do not think the Council of State should underestimate the fact that the alternative to this government's renewable energy policy has been a system of green certificates, which the previous government put a lot of work into developing, and on which a unanimous increase gave us support in the last period of the important action. So this government torpedoed the most effective means of action, and then it came up with something that the state council at that time promised to be just as good, that is, a renewable energy fund. Now it turns out that projects on projects are being put away, because it's only half of the level that is in the fund that is now, compared to what you thought would come up with green certificates. Then my question to the Council of State: Is this also an area where he has been somewhat unprecise in relation to what he promised first, and what he has supplied?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e360	No, not at all. Firstly, this system is better than what we would have been able to achieve if we had accepted what Sweden demanded of us on green certificates. Significant costs would have been passed on to consumers. It would have been a system that had focused only on electricity generation. We achieve the best results in other areas, they are achieved by investing in district heating, investing in bioenergy, investing in energy efficiency. Yes, it is true that the investments on e.g. wind power has not become as large as we would have liked. There are many reasons for this, not least that there is a high economic downturn in this area and that the costs of wind power have increased significantly. So you might ask yourself: is it really sensible to make large-scale investments during a period when the cost level is so high? So it is possible that we would have obtained green certificates with the previous government, but in that case it would have been on premises that would have incurred significant costs for consumers. This government has granted this over the State budget – not to the detriment of consumers, but to the detriment of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e367	Bea Lymph – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e370	It's a matter that takes me very seriously, and it's the first tidal power plant in the world, that's developed in the Kvalsundet in Finnmark. Unfortunately, the company has now had to flag this project out to Scotland, and it has not seen anyone in the government get involved in this very important forward-looking project, for us in Finland and for the rest of the country. I have raised this matter in writing with the Council of State, but I am not satisfied with the answer I received. I therefore want the Council of State to be able to explain why one has not been involved in the Government in order to retain this technology in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e377	It's not right that we didn't get involved. In fact, I have recently had a meeting with the company. This company has received grants through Enova and will also be able to achieve it in the future, and it will also be possible to obtain support through other parts of the State agency for such a project as this. However, it is the case that the United Kingdom has set up very noisy aid schemes, aid schemes which are not close to any previous government or the current government has assessed the establishment in Norway. On that basis, I can understand, of course, that it has been assessed whether or not to establish itself in the United Kingdom. However, we have not given up hope that this will be an industrial development in Norway, and have, as I said, been in contact and will continue to have contact with this company.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e384	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e387	I think the Council of State is quite right when he says that with the previous government we would have put in place a system of green certificates. It is a paradox that it is only the office of the Ministry of Oil and Energy that has been against that system, while everyone else has seen the great benefits of it. It must be a problem for the Council of State, too, that with the system in place, the aid schemes are such that for wind turbines in Norway, aid is 8 øre per. Kilowatt, while in Sweden there is 27 ears of support, and in Denmark 20. This means that the Swedish scheme is three times as good as the Norwegian scheme, whereas we would have had the same support in Norway and Sweden with a scheme of green certificates. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e394	It was actually the three parties that are now in government, which were the drivers of the Stortinge in the last period to establish a scheme of green certificates. I have read the investigations that the previous government put forward in this area, and I think I would be careful to use the description of the "offensive bet" from the previous government on the investigations that have been submitted. It was a good piece again. The main thing remained, and it was to negotiate with Sweden on the conditions relating to green certificates. It was where it stranded, not at the government's will to implement this. However, we could not accept that Norwegian consumers would have to pay a bill per capita that was twice as large as the Swedish consumer would have to pay. I am amazed that it is now said that the previous government would have accepted a burden-sharing that was so biased in relation to what we considered to be fair. That's why it didn't result. We could not accept the demands we were faced with from the Swedish authorities. The previous government never came so far that negotiations were conducted on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e399	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e403	We have a government that has said that one will actively use the state ownership of different companies to achieve political goals. State power is a company in which there could be room for it. It's the whole time of the state. It is not listed, and it is fully governed by the state. So what happens to Statkraft? Yes, they say that the Government’s approach to renewable energy production in Norway is so poor that investing in Norway is unprofitable. Instead, they shift focus to the rest of the world and rates of windmill production abroad rather than in Norway. They do so for good reason, because the scheme adopted by the Government in the Grand Duchy is the worst in Europe, with the exception of Estonia and Malta. It is now reported that Estonia is about to pass us. While this is the situation with regard to renewable energy production, State power, owned by the state, directed by the state, where political governance is facilitated, begins to take an interest in nuclear power development in Norway. It's a totally unreal situation. While we have an SV Environment Minister and an Energy Minister from the Central Party, State-owned Government is losing interest in renewable energy production in Norway and taking an interest in nuclear power, which has been dead in Norwegian policy for decades. It might have been interesting to hear the Council of State reflections on how his steering signals towards Statkraft have been received, and how Statkraft is acting in terms of having visions to trigger new energy production in Norway. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make State power more active on the ground to trigger renewable energy production in Norway and at the same time demonstrate that it is the way into the future and not new nuclear power generation, where the problems of waste are as fundamentally unsolved as they were 50 years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e414	Firstly, it is not that this Council of State is giving guidance signals to Statkraft. State power remained under the Ministry of Industry and Trade during the previous period and is the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Industry. It provided for the previous government. Then it's not like it's State power that decides whether to expand nuclear power or not in Norway. All types of energy production shall be subject to concession treatment. It is not this government's policy that it should be focused on nuclear power in Norway. The main track to this government is renewable energy investment and CO2 management in gas power plants in a completely different way from that provided by the previous government. There is also Statkraft an actor, and hopefully it will also be in technology development in this area. I do not think the representative should underestimate the state power's commitment to renewable energy. State power is the country's largest renewable energy producer and also the company that has put the greatest emphasis on wind power generation. I assume that this company will also be in the future, both in terms of the continued expansion of hydropower where it is appropriate, and in terms of investment in wind power. So that the aid rate for wind power generation is lower in Norway than it is in most other countries. Yeah, that's right. But there is another aspect that the representative should take with him, and it is that the conditions for producing wind power in Norway are far better than they are in any other country. So if the aid rate were to be as high in Norway as it was in Germany, for example, or in Sweden for that part, Norwegian wind power producers would receive a significantly better aid scheme than they did in the same countries, simply because the conditions for producing power are much better. It blows more along the Norwegian coast than it does in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e428	It is interesting that the Government is obviously more defensive in terms of governance signals to Statkraft than to many other companies where the government has a significantly lower ownership. It is possible that the Stortinget must put Jan Bøhler on the matter in order to advance State power's commitment to renewable energy production, as the Council of State and his government colleagues do not seem willing to make their ambitions clear in this area. It is an unequivocal fact that Norway, which has made a search for fossil energy exports, is now exporting good renewable energy projects. There are no countries that should have better preconditions for lifting these renewable projects at home than what we have. My question to the Council of State is: it is now talking about making a climate settlement in Stortinget. An absolute prerequisite for the Left and others in the opposition will be that we get a much more powerful regime for renewable energy production. Will the Council of State meet such a requirement from the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e437	I am absolutely positive that Norway and Norwegian companies also export renewable projects. Of course, all export activities of this type are positive. If Norwegian companies see opportunities to make money on being part of and producing renewable energy in Germany or Denmark or Sweden, or where it may be, I actually thought that the representative Kvassheim would also think it was good. The fact that Norwegian companies invest outside has always been part of Norwegian industrial history. It has to be in the future. It is not that the potential to expand wind power in Norway is lost if State power builds wind turbines, wind farms, in Germany, or where it might be. That potential is still there. This government has the ambition to exploit it, and we are going to achieve our goal of 30 TWh renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement by 2016. Right now the focus is on bioenergy and energy efficiency. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e444	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e447	It is a special experience to hear the Council of State talk about its renewable policy. While the entire power industry, environmental protection organizations and those who are going to expand, actually say that the government's system doesn't hold water, the government talks as if this is very good. A four-page notification describing the Government’s renewable policy was submitted. None of the claims, whether about money or that green certificates are worse than the government's system, were attempted, but the claims are repeated again and again. So when others discuss systems, the Council of State only talks about throwing more money into the air after this. The question that has not yet been answered by the Council of State and what it has not made visible is: the renewable policy of this government has led to more wind power projects to be realised today or to fewer wind power projects to be realised? That's also true of what Statkraft is doing. I have not been told that they have submitted a single new project after the renewable system was submitted, but they have said on the contrary that more will be put on ice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e454	So now, as I've already said, this system will only come into force from next year. Investment decisions have been made in the current year for new wind power projects — several in fact — and investments in wind power are being made. In addition, significant investments in energy efficiency improvement and bioenergy investment are being made. We are, of course, following this development carefully, as I have said, because what is established is that we are going to achieve a target of 30 TWh by 2016. Then we have to look from year to year if the goal achievement is the way we think it should be to get to 30 TWh by 2016. If not, of course, we have to see if the instruments are good enough. So far, there's no reason to believe that we're not going to achieve that goal – with a greater share of energy efficiency and heat investment than we initially thought. But that's the goal, that's the one that's solid, that's not what's being built out, that's what's important to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e463	2/3 of the renewable projects are dropped because the Norwegian aid legislation is too poor. It's 15 TWh, corresponding to approx. 30 Alta power plants, which are then ready-to-use renewable projects that could have been started. The whole industry sees many of these being dropped because the level in Norway is lower than in our neighbouring countries. Then, of course, the Council of State can try to convince us that it is fantastic, the code that the Government has designed. However, it does not deliver the product, namely more renewable energy, which is important for Norway to succeed in reducing its own greenhouse gas emissions – and Europeans. So I wonder if it doesn't worry the council that 2/3 of the projects are dropped. Then there is also offshore wind power, it is this tidal power plant in Hammerfest, etc. When the Right Leader went out with an invitation to our national meeting that we can imagine working together to increase support, is this an invitation to the Council of State receiving?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e470	Yes, I thank you for all the invitations to try to work together for the best possible use of renewable energy. I'm positive about that. So it's not like the representative claims that two thirds of the projects are being dropped. Two thirds is probably right when we get to, for example. Wind power, but I think it's a little early to conclude there too. Last year, 860 GWh was realized. Enova spent 250 million on three projects. kr on energy efficiency improvement, which gave 600 GWh in reduced electricity consumption. There's a heavy stake in these areas, because one of the most important things we can do now is get out of the power trap. In no country, for example, so much electricity is used. heating as we do in Norway. And one of the most important things we can do in a system as strong as we have is to make a transition to thermal power and reduce electricity consumption. It is heavily invested, so it is not such a thing as the representative claims that the renewable action is gone. But the bet comes in some areas other than what the representative Burnde wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e477	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e480	The climate challenges we face are enormous, and more actors are needed in the field of new renewable energy. But it's probably a clear message from all the actors that they need more ear per. kWh to be included. Hydro has exciting but demanding technology developments in marine mills. It is important, as I see it, that the new energy company StatoilHydro also invests in new renewable energy. And my simple question is this: How will the Council of State communicate to the new energy company StatoilHydro Regeringen's desire for a strong increase in the investment in new renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e488	It is right, as the representative says, that the climate challenge is one of the greatest and most important challenges we face in the future. Therefore, the Government spends more on renewable energy than any previous government has done. Therefore, the Government spends more money and resources on research and development of CO2 management technologies than has been done in the past. We're actually leading in this area, and I'm proud of that. It's a work we're going to continue. A total of large resources are being used in these areas. As the representative says, offshore wind power is one of the really exciting areas where Norway also has a high potential for renewable energy investment. There's a lot of exciting happening, and it's going to happen exciting things in the future. The new company has already stated in connection with the merger that investing in alternative energy and renewable energy sources will be an important field of activity for the company. In addition to the harvest, after the merger is effective, the company will develop its strategy. Then we get back to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e500	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e503	Seven years have passed since Councillor Enoxen and his successor as party leader in the Center Party, who put the ringside side, went off on a climate issue. It was a historic moment. Hardly any government in the world has gone off to fight for the future and the environment. In view of that, I have to say that there is no historical highlight we see today, when the Government responds to its lack of ambition in this crucial area. But we have an opportunity, and that opportunity lies in the climate agreement. I will not ask if the Council of State is tired and intends to go home. But we have an opportunity to create a historically important moment in the Storting when a possible climate settlement is adopted. The left is set to be on it. We're prepared to raise a lot of important issues. We are prepared to take the decisive steps forward. These challenges are greater than both today's government and the previous government and the Central Party and the Left together have had. Clearly, an important part of such a climate settlement will be to facilitate Norway to become a renewable society. We are willing to bring this into the climate negotiations. The council says he sees it positively. Does the Council of State want us to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e512	Now first the representative Sponheim can wait and see what comes in the climate announcement, and what has already been brought in there before it comes to Stortinget. I remember very well that moment when the Bondevik I government decided that we had to go on such an important climate issue as this. In fact, unlike the previous government, in which the representative Sponheim participated, this government has presented an ambitious plan and a large allocation for renewable energy investment. But not enough: In addition, this government is addressing the major challenges of contributing to the development of a technology to manage CO2. There was the previous government, of which Sponheim was a central member. It did not take seriously what it should have done in relation to the concessions given for gas power. That's where we're going. This will be an important contribution to future climate policy. But leave it. I am definitely in favour of cooperation to achieve the best possible result when the climate communication comes to treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e526	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e529	My question goes to Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Åslaug Haga. Both the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and the Central Party often highlight the importance of local self-government in their celebrations. In a type of case where local selfgovernment is flourishing, the discussion of alcohol policy is. In each period of a local government, it may be one of the highlights, and there are very good and well-considered arguments and, not least, clear political contradictions with regard to municipal donation and alcohol policy. It is in very many municipalities an important part of the local election campaign and also leads to the mobilisation of voters. Now the Government has just concluded that the same municipalities will not be allowed to have similar discussions on slot machine deployment, although more than 208 rapporteurs from all parties have written under a call to allow slot machines to be part of the local political debate where one weighs the negative effects of having slot machines against the positive effects, such as the income of voluntary work. Yes, perhaps one also discusses how to compensate voluntary organisations if one says no to slot machines – a discussion that in many ways is very similar to the discussion that is taking place in all local government in the area of alcohol policy. My question to the Council of State and the head of the Central Party is: What are these 48 central party rapporteurs who have signed on this appeal, have not understood, but as Åslaug Haga has understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e540	Many in Norway are concerned about how to deal with gambling. It's also the Center Party. We're central to that. We're local. Then we have a tradition in Norway that means that the revenue from the slot machines is going to strengthen the voluntary work. The centre party is central and locally concerned that we should ensure the voluntary organisations good income. In the issue of slot machines and the local discretion to say no, some dilemmas arise. What I record is that our rapporteurs, like rapporteurs from many other parties, will reserve the right to say no to slot machines, but at the same time they want to receive the revenue from the slot machines to their voluntary organisations. So here you just have to make some choices. The Central Party has concluded that we want to have a national game policy. We believe that the slot machines that are now on the market and which have been significantly improved in the past should be deployed. At the same time, my party has the ambition to get rid of the slot machines, but we have to do it in such a way that we secure the revenues of the volunteer organizations. It will take us an improper time to get there to get rid of the slot machines while at the same time securing the revenues of the volunteer organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e547	The response of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is a gross under-estimation of the country's rapporteurs from all parties, but not least from her own party. It appears here that these 208 rapporteurs – a quarter of them from the Central Party – do not understand that saying no to slot machines also has a negative impact on the revenue of voluntary organisations. That this is a question that contains dilemmas, yes, it is quite obvious — just as balances in alcohol policy involve dilemmas. So the Council of State says that there have to be some choices here. Yes, what makes Åslaug Haga feel that the Government and the Storting are better suited to take these choices than the local government? Or to put it another way: what makes it more democratic that the kiosks in the municipalities make these elections instead of the local authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e552	The comparison with the alcohol policy is halting. We also have strong national legislation in the field of alcohol policy, and it is within the framework of national legislation that local adaptations can be made. But the main features of alcohol policy are in national legislation. The central party says that in the case of gambling policy, it must also be national. There's a lot of reasons for that. A key reason why we need a national gambling policy is precisely the link we have created in Norway over time to the funding of the voluntary sector. Therefore, the local space for action needs to be assessed, according to the defined national policy. In the field of alcohol policy, it opens up a space that does not have the same opportunity to be found in the field of gambling policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e559	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e562	We heard the representative Höie talking about the rapporteur's insurrection. The majority is delighted to have these rapporteurs consulted later today, and it will be very interesting to hear what they are saying. I get very upset when the council says that those who say no to vending machines, also say no to money for culture and sport, as far as I know, the wrench has not changed. This means that all municipalities throughout the country receive money from Norwegian Tipping's surplus. Or does the Council of State think of using the second surplus from Norwegian Typing as a penalty for those municipalities that don't want machines?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e570	What is contained in the Government's proposal is that we maintain the system we have per year. Today, which means that we have a national game policy, and that voluntary organisations are partly financed through profits from games. I have to say that I think it is quite fascinating when the Progress Party is occupied with local freedom of action – the party that, in all its policies in relation to the municipalities, will take power away from them. Earlier today, we have heard representatives from the Progress Party argue for price financing and earmarking, which will suck all life out of local democracy in the most important areas. There will be games for the gallery when the Progress Party talks about local freedom of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e575	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e578	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: Is there a game for the gallery when the Secretary of State of Åslaug Haga in an article in the newspaper Center writes that the slot machines have to go away? It says: ‘The new vending machines are referred to as ‘smart’, but everyone knows that the vending machines will not be nice to those who have a game problem. There is therefore only one good solution and there is a ban on slot machines throughout the country.’ The article is signed by Guri Størvold, State Secretary of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. When it comes to the funding of the voluntary sector, Norsk Tipping has seen a fund that would apply from the first year of the introduction of a monopoly. These funds can be used in the first year, and voluntary organisations have promised 933 million. kr. Does the central game really want to be there and remove the machines instead of rescinding them, so that you can remove them when you have the will to do it? Is the Council of State in agreement with the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e590	The centre party has made clear decisions on our game policy. This means that we want to remove the slot machines in the long term. It is estimated that non-governmental organisations will have about DKK 1.2 billion in revenue from gambling at these times. We are concerned that we should ensure that the voluntary organisations earn as much as they expected in revenue from the games. So we can't just throw out the vending machines. We have to make sure that we fund the voluntary organisations in parallel. That's the starting point for us to accept that the new vending machines are going to be in place. There are vending machines that are far more advantageous than the old ones. But our long-term goal lies there, and we put ourselves on a responsible line, which is to ensure that we both phase them out, and secure the organisations' revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e597	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e600	Åslaug Haga thought the comparison with the alcohol policy would be limp, and that there would be difficulties in having municipal autonomy within games in relation to the national frameworks. I've looked at some of the reasons of the Central Government of the Center Party. The central government of the Central Party says that a national gambling policy is sought, so that there can be common practices, a common distribution of profits, a common policy on illegal gambling and common strategies for dealing with foreign games. This we agree with all men, at least in the Right. This would be the national framework, the national legislation that you have. But it should not prevent municipalities from having a right of reservation and discussing how to deal with gambling policy within the given framework. It is difficult to see what the central government of the Central Party is doing, which would make this a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e607	I have great respect for the fact that many are skeptical about having slot machines in their municipalities. This is also the starting point for the Central Party to decide that we want to phase out slot machines in the long term. If we were to allow any municipality that does not want to have slot machines today to have full freedom of action in relation to that, it would probably mean that we would have a dramatic fall in the revenues of the voluntary organizations. There is no situation in which we want to stand up, because we are living busy in all the important work done by non-governmental organisations around the Norwegian community. We cannot, of course, have a system in which people leave the community in this context by saying no to slot machines, while at the same time taking full advantage of the joys of the community, which are the incomes of the games.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e612	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e615	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. In recent months, we have seen that important bodies such as the UN, Hans Blix, the EU and the International Energy Agency, the IEA, have said that nuclear power is something the world needs to assess to ensure its energy balance. You can imagine an energy use that would be quadrupled until the year 2100. Then, according to the opinion of the Progress Party, thorium power plants appear to be an exciting opportunity globally. It's a great energy potential. Making it work can solve both the safety and waste challenges, and Norway has high levels of thorium. The Progress Party has been a major driver of the Stortinget to look at thorium for energy purposes, not because we need to build such a power plant in Norway – here we have a lot of gas, water, wind and bioenergy that can be used – but in recognizing that all our neighbouring countries, except Denmark, have nuclear power, it is in our own interest to ensure that it is as good as possible. In Stortinget on 15 November 2006, the Council of State said that it was not appropriate for this government to follow the thorium trail, which the Progress Party provided. In fact, he put down a thorium selection after pressure from the Progress Party, but the policy was to be firm: Thorium and nuclear power were not current. Now, for the past few weeks, Norwegian industry has come on track. Several companies are looking at the possibility of building thorium power plants, and it's exciting. What's even more exciting is that Statkraft has also come on the track and is going to look at thorium. State power is a state-owned company, governed by a government signal, a government that has promised active ownership and an active industrial policy, among other things. The centre party Lars Peder Breck and SV's Inge Ryan have referred to several times in debates with State power when they have not done as they wish. Then it's especially to see that you're raising thorium from Statkraft. Then my simple question is: Is Statkraft's work on thorium in line with the steering signal given by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e626	It is true, as the representative says, that on 15 November last year Ketil Solvik-Olsen took the initiative for an interpellation in the Stortinget, where I said in my closing post that I would take the initiative to have an investigation carried out on opportunities and threats related to thorium. These include: is in the mandate of this sample, the sample is to carry out an investigation in order to establish a sound factual basis in relation to both the possibilities and the risks of using thorium for long-term energy production. I would like to remind the representative that the use of thorium is at least probably 20 years ahead of us. It is true that Norway has a lot of resources. That is why I have taken this initiative to carry out such a fact-finding on opportunities and risks. The fact that Statkraft and other companies look at the same thing, I don't think there's anything wrong at all. That company must also, of course, have the full opportunity to look at the opportunities and risks associated with thorium as well as other energy sources. This does not mean that the government's policy in relation to nuclear power has changed. We will not use nuclear power in Norway. We have a large potential of renewable energy that we have not yet fully exploited, and we are also in the process of investing heavily in the development of CO2 management from gas power plants. It will actually be the biggest contribution to reducing world greenhouse gas emissions over the next 30 years, because fossil energy sources will be worth as much as 80 pst. of the growth of energy consumption up to 2030. Therefore, the IEA has also underlined that it is addressing the CO2 problems with, among other things. clean-up of CO2 from gas power plants will be the main contribution that can be made. This is also the main initiative of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e642	My question was not about the selection. I'm very pleased that it's been reduced, and that it's made up of professional, good people. So the Council of State is to be commended for not diluting it. It was mentioned 20 years, and that's probably the Carlo Rubia model for nuclear power plants, but already today India is working on using thorium in existing technology, so this isn't necessarily something that's decades ahead. And then this is an important explanation to Statkraft, because it's an all-time state company, where the state is going to give guidance signals, which many red-green politicians have been eager to give. Then we must assume that State power does not act across the government's policy, in which case the government of State should have been clearly informed of it. And then it's an important political clarification from the Government to say – I got the impression that the Council of State said this was quite right – that he and Statkraft are looking at it. But if Statkraft looks at this and finds that it may be relevant to build this – not in Norway, but abroad – will the Council of State be positive that State power does?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e650	I want to remind you again that the use of thorium is far ahead of time. India is considering building a pilot for more use of thorium. India is one of the other countries that have great resources of thorium. But use of thorium is well ahead of time. There is a difference in technology in this area as well, and there is a development of technology. What I have said, and what I answered the representative's question, is that I have no objections to Statkraft making assessments related to this. This does not, of course, mean that Government has taken investment decisions or is making investment decisions. And that doesn't mean at all that the government's policy in this area has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e657	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e660	It is important that there is a willingness to bet on developing the major thorium deposits we have in our country, and it is important to be able to research to use new energy. But much is unknown and unexplored about the use of thorium and other new energy sources. Then it is unsustainable that the government takes a break in research, especially now that we are facing major environmental challenges. If we are to be able to increase the development of new renewable energy, we cannot afford Øystein Djupedal's cutting edge. Does this Council of State consider it appropriate to cut research now as we face major environmental challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e667	Substantial efforts are being made on renewable energy. We spend money on CO2 management, and we develop technology for CO2 management that will be one of the most important contributions we can make. There we spend more money than any previous government has done, and we've done a lot of work in the next few years to contribute to technology development in this area. To say that this is not done enough in terms of research and development in this area, I must, with all due respect, say, I am a pretty strong blind lead, for never before has any government been able to address one of the most serious climate problems we are facing, and we are doing something that can be an international contribution as well. We get praise for this from almost all teams, from the IEA and from the European Commission, who say that Norway is at the forefront of CO2 management work, and we do, in fact, as well, and we intend to maintain that position in the years to come. At the same time, however, it is important that we also put up a heavy effort in other areas. I would like to stress that in the case of thorium, around the turn of the year, we will have a factual basis to discuss the topic that the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e681	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e684	The problem with the nuclear debate in Norway is that there is an ice layer of double communication, as we see at the Council of State today. Because even though he says that Statkraft can sniff at thorium, their involvement is perceived as an input to contribute to nuclear power production in Norway. Stein Lier-Hansen, head of Norwegian Industry, welcomes this and says that Norwegian industry has never needed nuclear power more than now, and then he sees this as a potential possibility in Norwegian energy production. To this is to say, this is decades ahead of us and is not the answer to the challenges we face today. So here I'm going to challenge the Council of States to become even more clear that one does not care about nuclear power production in Norway from a perspective of decades to come, and that is not the answer to the challenges we face today, for example in relation to the needs of Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e689	I can't answer for anyone other than this government. This government's policy is no to nuclear power in Norway. It will remain as long as this government is responsible for this. What will happen in decades is probably difficult for both me and the representative Kvassheim to answer. As far as the thorium debate is concerned, I would say that we have a great resource in this area. But I fully share with the representative Kvassheim's view of this. There is a significant risk associated with the use of nuclear power. We do not want it in Norway. But I have asked that an investigation be carried out to look at the possibilities and also the risks associated with the use of thorium, so that we have a factual basis to conduct that debate. It definitely doesn't mean that the government's policy is changing. The government's policy is to invest in renewable energy and to invest in CO2 management from gas power plants, which will be an element of Norwegian energy production in the future. We will make more use of gas power in the future, and then we will have to deal with the CO2 challenge related to it. Nuclear power is not part of the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e702	Torbjørn Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e705	The Council of State says that this government does not want nuclear power in Norway. But it's like we already have nuclear power in Norway. Norway has been in a net import situation for seven of the last 11 years, and much of that force is being imported from Swedish and Finnish nuclear power plants. I think it will be a form of double-ethnicism on the part of the Government – when you say no to nuclear power and yet can help to develop a new type of nuclear power that is safer and smarter than the nuclear power that Norway is importing today. I'm thinking of thorium, of course. It must be a major dilemma for the Government that Norway can be involved in the future and can help to develop a new type of nuclear power — which is safer than the nuclear power based on uranium — and so say bastantly no to it. We rely on nuclear power from Sweden and from Finland, but refuse to contribute to the development of a new type of nuclear power.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e712	The government's goal is to be self-sufficient in power in a normal year of precipitation. The main track of the government is to continue to invest in renewable energy. In addition, we are now using gas power. And we're using considerable resources to develop CO2 management from gas power. These are the government's tracks. Through those choices, we will be self-sufficient in electrical energy and thus reduce the need for imports — including imports of nuclear energy. We're still going to be part of a Nordic market. Thus, it will also be nuclear power production in that market. However, this does not prevent Norway from being self-sufficient and being able to cope as far as possible with its own production, based on the most renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-30.ana.ud1306e724	The oral question time is over. This means that today's maps are ready. Would you like a word before the meeting is deleted? - The meeting has been cancelled.
