ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e34	We've come so far that the interpellant gets a short comment, limited to 3 minutes, to its main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e37	I want to thank the Council of State very much for this answer. I think that was a very good answer, and I am very satisfied. I knew in advance that the Council had a positive and constructive response – I have read the press release, which came a few days ago. I want to spend some time with the Social and Health DG's recommendations. I think – I want to clarify it – that it was wise to get these kind of recommendations. The report provided by the directorate is actually quite good, even to the extent that it points out shortcomings and issues that need to be explored further, as well as making some very clear recommendations that I feel the Council of State will follow up on a long way – if not all, and there are probably reasons for that. So to one of the proposals, the competence network. I think it's wise that the Council of State has ended up establishing her. Perhaps one of the most important things about this network of competences, as I see it, is the role that user organisations will also have. In addition, I believe that the management of this network of competences is becoming very important. Because if you're going to involve different disciplines, which you have to do, there has to be a network where you dare and dare and can have it high under the roof, come with different plays. Then in such a network, when there is such a great deal of professional disagreement in the environments, perhaps even more listening to patients, to the different groups of patients, I would say, because there are some people who obviously need quite specific measures because they are very seriously ill, while other patients may be in a second phase of the disease. You have to take this into account. Then you also have to take into account that there are actually some foreign competences with clinical findings that you also need to be able to go into in Norway. I say ‘also in Norway’, it may well exist — it does — both doctors and competence staff who know much more about this than I do. But you also have to take such considerations into account. So being humble when you go into this, I think I'm wise. But once again, we have to listen to the patient. Then I am glad that the Council of State clearly also said in its statement that we should go into the international environments and see how far they have come. Can the Council of State, when she mentions this by facilitating treatment provision in budgetary terms, imagine that we will already see some funds for this in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e48	Let me first thank you for good words, and I would like to correct them, too, because I think it is very important that there is a broad commitment to this patient group, which has not been seen or heard to a large extent enough, and has not been taken seriously to a large extent until now. So I'm very happy about this, and not least for the ME initiative and the collaboration with them, which I very much appreciate. When it comes to the question of the network of competences, in which I have great faith, I agree that we cannot have any pre-conceptions. It has to be high below the ceiling – one can use that expression. I fully agree that management will of course be important, but there will be cooperation between different environments, the main seat of Oslo and Bergen, and then with environments around the country. Not least, we need to be properly able to involve user organisations and the user perspective in it seriously. When it comes to budgetary matters, the representative Davøy knows that I can't say anything about when or where. But what I can say is that we're also going to take this into account in the budget in the future, and especially related to what I'm talking about now, in order to build a completely necessary network of competences, in order to get a step forward, hopefully. At the same time, of course, we have great expectations of the research that is going on, which we hope will give us a breakthrough in finding out more about the cause, and, of course, we also need to make greater use of the foreign competence and research that is taking place abroad. Then I can just make sure that I will be very aware of, and give notice to those I am responsible for in our excellent health sector, that in terms of treatment provision and the way some people report that they have been met, we should not have it that way. I'm also going to bring that back. I think the most important thing about this debate is that we get a very important case high on the agenda, that we can do something together with it, that we have a plan, and that hopefully it will help them, which, in my opinion, has neither been seen nor heard for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e59	On Good Morning Norway today there was a rather strong meeting between the state council Sylvia Brustad, head of the ME association Ellen V. Piro, and Line Kromvoll, who was heavily hit by ME. The line was very tough on TV. She gave us a good insight into what ME involves, among other things. by expressing how much this TV performance would cost her. She gave us a face, along with the leader of the association, to make us understand more of this disease, and gave a strong contribution to help and hope for all who are affected by ME. We hit children and young people, men and women. I don't know if it's random that all of those I've met with ME are women, and if they're really in majority. And we'll figure that out. If women are in the majority, I hope that's not why this isn't on the agenda before, and that so many people say they've been mistrusted both in the health care system and by people around them, as we've heard stories about other typical women's diseases. It is made clear in this debate that we cannot do enough about this disease. For this reason, a number of measures should be taken, as the Council of State has taken — from research to action directly targeting patients and their relatives where they live. That's good. I think we have to accept that the health service doesn't know everything about all diseases, and that we actually need more research and resources. We have to accept that there is sometimes a professional disagreement, that it is difficult to diagnose. But what we cannot accept, on the other hand, is that patients are not met with respect, as the Council of State has also expressed it. We cannot accept that people are not believed, not taken seriously. Not to be taken seriously is probably exacerbating any disease and giving the patient an extra burden. What came out on TV this morning was also not to be believed, not to be taken seriously. As expressed, many patients were simply scared to death. We should not be surprised if they have met the health care system in the way that many people have reported back to us. But it's very serious. The interpellant has raised an important debate. Governments have really stretched out a hand to this patient group now. I feel very confident that this will be followed up with them. The sickest, the children, the young, must be given priority. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e77	I also received a number of messages from ME patients, like the interpellant. The messages have made a very strong impression. First of all, I'm very surprised at the size of this group. It has come messages from a lot of holders, from both sexes. Now it's said that it's about 10,000 on a national basis. Some also claim that there is an extra large representation of this disease in the Bergen area. Now I don't want to go into speculation about what might be the reason for it, and I don't want to go into the symptoms, which the representative Davøy took very carefully and well for himself, but I want to make sure that my impression is that this is one of the worst things that could happen today. These are often resource-intensive people. There are often young people, and there are often very active people, who are being knocked out overnight. From being a resourceful person becomes a care patient in a very short time, depending on support and help to most and will also get heavy loads due to outside impressions, such as light, noise, etc. The offer made by this group has not been good enough. It has been dissatisfying in very many areas. It comes from two things. It's due to a lack of competence, as one has drawn up and clarified here. There is very little competence in this area. Therefore, there are patients who have this diagnosis, who have had a totally wrong follow-up, and who have thus experienced a worsening situation. The second thing it's missing is its capacity. That hasn't been enough capacity. There haven't been enough funds available. This diagnosis and this group have not been sufficiently taken seriously at all. I have an example that I thought I'd take. There's a 16-year-old girl who was an ME frame. There were three years of hard fighting from the family before she at all times managed to get a diagnosis that confirmed that she was an ME frame. Obviously, it makes it very difficult. The reason for this was that in Haukeland hospital there is a doctor who is responsible, and he had so much going on that he simply had to put in an intake stop. He did not have the capacity to receive more of those who had these symptoms. Of course, it's totally unsustainable, it's totally unacceptable. That's why I'm very happy that the Council of State promises to take this seriously, and one must strengthen the knowledge about this, including the research. And then it's also important that more resources are used, so that this group can get an adequate and acceptable follow-up, which very many have not received in the time that has gone to now. So I want a proper search light on this as soon as possible. It is also very positive that the representative Davøy makes this an interpellation, so that we get discussed and shed light on the matter. Because this is about a group that has not been seen sufficiently, has not been taken sufficiently seriously, and we have to do something about that. Now I hope that the words from the Council of State are made into action, so that we can correct the unsustainable situation this group has been exposed to, so that they can get a treatment, an offer and a follow-up that we can acknowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e95	I won't say so much. But first I want to say that I think it is very good that the representative, Mr. Davøy, has been so active in this area and has brought forward a patient group that has both been overlooked for a long time and does not have the status that they should have in the Norwegian healthcare system, and that the Minister of Health has been on the job so quickly after the recommendations of the Social and Health Directorate arrived, and said that this is what she wants to address. When you meet people who are in such a situation, face to face and hear what they have to say, it makes a very strong impression. Then there's going to be something different than just looking at a statistic, for example. I think it is very important that we maintain the user perspective in all the work we do, and one of the things that is important to us in the future is that we put pressure on user organisations and relatives to have greater influence in the health care system and in general, really, in the welfare state. We had a very nice interpellation debate here a few weeks ago that was about self-help, which has some of the same elements in it: that we have to be the drivers of democratization, a bottom-up perspective where you don't sit on your high horse and protect yourself from seas and their own interests. It is also a question of democratisation in the sense that groups which otherwise do not have a high status are made visible. This could be done, for example, by: be those with special female diseases, to which Gunn Olsen was involved, or it may be children or groups that are weak because they do not have traditional medical status. Then there are some challenges also in terms of interdisciplinaryity, and that's something we have to work on further, also because the funding system doesn't always support it. I visited the municipality of Horten for a while back, where they have a relief department at the hospital, but they also put emphasis on rehabilitation. It's especially cancer that's in focus there, but they also had, among other things, cancer. ME patients. Obviously, it makes a huge impression when you hear about people who don't have the power to light, who don't have the power to be caught, who don't have the power to have their children present. I think there is a terrible challenge also in caring for the relatives, and especially when they have children. It's a huge crisis that whole families come up with. This affects not only the sick person but the entire network. There I find that the trends we now see in health care to become more concerned with empowerment, becoming a boss in their own lives, not only focusing on illness, but also on mastering, in cooperation with user organisations, are something that we need to support and get ahead. I see it as perhaps a small revolution in the Norwegian health care system and the Norwegian welfare state in the future. So I want to give tribute to the Minister of Health and to user organisations, relatives, people who have stood up and who have made contact, people who refuse to give up, despite the fact that many have been met with arrogance and have felt ignored. It's so very important that we have this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e110	There is today a very important debate going on. It is good that this is put on the file card. I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the initiative for today's debate. This is a theme that several of us have been working on. For my part, I have previously had questions to the Council of State about that. Today, however, we have a much deeper and broader debate on this serious and difficult disease picture. I would like to thank the Council of State for its great commitment and openness in this matter. The new report from the Social and Health Directorate gives more technical recommendations on ME. As the Council of State said, the report points out the need for action in three areas of healthcare: competence development and research information, education and user assistance and organisation of treatment provision in municipalities and specialist health services; That sounds very correct. There is a need for more knowledge and understanding on all sides. The disease is difficult because the disease is so complex. I have access to a collection of patient stories gathered by Professor Sidsel Kreyberg at the University of Oslo. She writes in the foreword: ‘I hope they’ll be read at night’. The stories are different, they vary from children to good adults, from people who can work a little in periods, to others who are completely nursing patients, and like, for example, depends entirely on getting food through the probe. Here, long and tragic stories could be told. I'm not going to do that. It's worth noting all the common features of these examples, and it's the relationship with the health and social services. The despair of the health service meeting is a repetition. It is left in these stories that one is not taken seriously, and that a wrong diagnosis is made – if a diagnosis is made. A little more about this with the wrong diagnosis: Many patients are taken to have a mental illness and are then treated. One should not, of course, underestimate mental disorders, but it feels demeaning to be treated for suffering that one does not actually have. I believe this underpins what the Council of State said in its main post, that studies have shown that many ME patients have felt mistrusted in their health care. We need to put an end to that. I feel that we have a special responsibility for the sick. The family feels that there is no good offer for them. The same demonstrates in so far as a report from the National Health Care Knowledge Centre. It shows that many of the treatments used today do not have a proven effect. It also shows that there are no studies of the most ill patients. It's true, as mentioned earlier, that a lot of knowledge can be gained from the ME association and their website. These include: the development of 12 basic rules for ME disease. They show how heavy this disease can be, and what we as relatives, friends or those in the health care system, for that matter, can do. We could call it an ABC book in terms of our behavior in relation to ME patients. I'm aware that patients become caste balls between the first- and second-line health services. It is unsatisfactory both for local health services, for patients and for relatives. The worst patients need separate departments that are quiet and calm and adapt to the special needs they have. Hospitals as well as common hospitals are uninhabited. There are two reasons: there is too much noise and, at present, much too little knowledge of the disease. There have been several references today to the new report of the Social and Health Directorate. The priority areas are very important. At the same time, one should be aware that there are different views on this report. There have been critical voices such as this. claims that this report is characterised by a failed attempt to balance a somatic approach with a psychosomatic approach, all such attempts are unsuccessful, etc. I'm not going to decide if this is right or wrong, but what it really says is that we've been short in Norway. There has been too little research, and we haven't been good enough to use international research results. There has been too little discussion about methods. The points of view need to be further developed, and the healthcare system needs to be updated and take full responsibility for these seriously ill patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e141	First, thank you to the interpellant Laila Davøy for raising an important issue – because it concerns individuals. It makes the impression of reading about or talking to people and families affected by ME, or chronic fatigue syndrome. The 18-year-old boy in Sogn and Fjordane are bedridden in a dark room, unable to speak for many days and unable to withstand noise. He's taken away all that an 18-year-old boy should do. He cannot sit upright on bad days either. His whole family is affected by his illness – yes, that's what they say: It's like living on hold. For what is the future? He is now being treated in a psychiatric ward, because it was most suitable today. When 9,000 to 18 000 people can have this disease in Norway today, and including 300 children, as the Council of State said, it is very necessary that we look at the individuals behind this diagnosis. Patients with ME symptoms say that the worst thing, as many here have said, is not to be taken seriously by the health sector. As a health worker, I know it far into the heart. Not to be believed when you tell your story is one of the worst things a person can experience. For the disease have many different functional degrees. Many people are actually relieved to have a diagnosis, a disease that has a complex and to some extent unknown causal relationship. Teaching and acceptance among health professionals, especially in neurological wards, to which many of these patients come, must be one of many measures that can be taken immediately. It has also been mentioned by the Council of State. Then I agree that these different treatment services must be given in relation to the individual’s needs – we have heard that there are many different fates – with follow-up, with medications, cognitive therapy, etc. The goal must be to give each ME patient a much better quality of life than they have today. I know that Haukeland Hospital in Bergen has a top competence at ME. There should be no doubt that we in the Left will not save anything on research on ME. It is important to focus on research in Norwegian medical environments, in cooperation with international research. We need to be able to find this causal link in 2007 and provide good quality treatment for patients with ME. Real user involvement is important. We have to listen to patients' own stories. The real user involvement must be taken seriously, as must an individual level, as did the Minister of Health. A knowledge centre is necessary to give this patient group the status it deserves. Hospital learning and mastering centres must play a central role here. I know that in February, in the Sylvia Brustad Question Time, Health Minister Sylvia Brustad said clearly that this patient group should have a proper treatment and care offer in all regional health companies. I am responding to the positive actions that the Minister of Health has listed today, and I really support the action with this network of competences, which I believe is a very important beginning. I think there are many of us who are going to follow up this case, because we see that here are the individuals who have not got the right status for their disease. Living on hold is very tough for an 18-year-old and his family.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e160	I want to commend Laila Davøy for having taken up this interpellation and also give honor to Sylvia Brustad who has put in place a lot of things, which we hope can make this patient group get better relationships. This isn't a new disease. After all these years that we've had a health care system, it's a little thoughtful that it's taken so many years before a patient group has been taken seriously. Research on this disease first really started in the 1980s, but still there is a low-level state, and the knowledge of ME in the health care system is still minimal. There is then no offer of its own, other than the few specialists who diagnose the disease. The fact that the disease is sometimes triggered gradually and sometimes comes acutely in relation to infections, poisonings, vaccines, operations, injuries and other major physical and mental stress, and often as a result of a combination of these, makes it difficult. There is no doubt that this has been a difficult disease to diagnose — and still is — the diagnosis is well made by excluding other diseases. It is also one of the problems – that you do not get a diagnosis early. The causes of the suffering are, as I can understand, very complex, and the main problem is that you don't get an early diagnosis. Having a disease over a very long time and not being able to get treatment makes you even sicker. Of course, having a debilitating disease, for which no treatment is given, is deeply depressing. It gives a painful feeling. Although the disease is clearly not some form of clinical depression, as it has often been misunderstood as, it is a part that suffers depression as a result of not getting health care help. Research is important. Not all diseases can be removed rapidly by means of a medicinal product. This disease may be of such a nature that it is not possible to obtain an aid to solve the problem. Patients respond differently to different types of treatment. For some it seems one, others have to have a completely different type of treatment. The network of competences that is now being established, I hope to be open to both traditional and non-traditional forms of treatment, and that they will look at what has produced good results abroad. One of the problems facing those who are trying to get a form of treatment that some people feel helps is that they have to pay VAT on these services if they are not provided through the regular healthcare system. It is an additional financial burden, not only to have to pay for healthcare itself, but also to be subject to VAT. So I also hope that it will be looked at a little bit more closely with the exemption from VAT, and also with the inclusion of alternative treatments in trials to be done. I therefore think it is important that this case be followed up further, so that we do not forget the patient group, and that we see that something positive happens quickly, because now they have had a bad offer for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e177	I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate. There has been a great deal of agreement about the need, and that we have now started something big, including from this room. I would like not least to thank the Council of State for her already running. What I am also very pleased about is that the Council of State has signaled that she will contact her colleague, the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, in terms of social security rights, so that we can also deal with this problem. I want to end by saying that I think in the short term we will need a separate competence center, i.e. a ME centre. It could eventually be combined with this network that we get, but that's what you can get back to. But it has been shown in other contexts that for patients and personnel, having a place of contact may be wise. But as I said, it's possible that it can be combined with the network. So to this with the very, very sickest patients. State councils were in the process of testing care and care for the very sickest. What I really want to challenge the Council of States is something I've been asked a lot about, namely the need for some of the sickest. Instead of being visited by outpatient teams, which are probably very good for some, it might be – not least in a diagnostic phase, which should be relatively early – that you should set up some own beds, wards, in hospitals. I am thinking not least of possible departments with interdisciplinary staff, where you have protection, calm, where you can also meet others in the same situation, which is incredibly important, and where you can also make systematic treatment trials, take clinical studies and start some research. I actually think it would be important to get it in place as soon as possible, because these patients are there now. They are at home – many of them alone. Why not put off any beds in hospitals, preferably in each region, so that you could get an offensive – get these in now, and get those who are getting sick, or who have not been diagnosed – do a real job, in addition to having an outpatient team and outreach business, which I think is also important. I hope that the outpatient teams will also consist of professionals with clinical competence, because that is also important. The patients must be believed, which we fully agree on. It has to be an individual approach. The patient himself knows the limit of tolerance in different treatment types.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e189	I would like to join in that I think it has been a very good debate, and it promises well to get something into the future – not just in the future, but from here on forward, to express myself very clearly in relation to it. I also feel that there has been very broad support for the proposals that I have outlined for which way we should go further, and I am very pleased about that. I'm not going to worry about why this hasn't been lifted in the past. Of course, something can be related to a lack of knowledge. However, the fact that one has not been properly met by the health service is not acceptable, and in my opinion it should have been seized in the past. What we can see is that four out of five in this patient group are women. I'm not wondering anything more about it. But at least it's time for this group to get a promise, and for us to do it as it seems there's a broad consensus to do, from here on – it's up to us to be met in a real way, that we are now giving priority to the sickest and the children, as many people have been involved in, using the perspective, to relatives in a broad sense, but especially when there are children inside the picture, and what is also said here about interdisciplinaryity. I am very much in favour of it, and I also believe that the funding system needs to be reviewed so that there is no obstacle there to good professional solutions to do more to this group. Then I don't know if the representative Inger S. Enger might have made a statement about the report from the Knowledge Center, and not about it from the Social and Health Directorate, but it doesn't really matter that much. At least I believe that the report we have received on the table from the Social and Health Directorate, which is the one I have referred to in my post, is a very good basis for acting now, and I feel that there is a very broad consensus on that, fortunately. So I want to say a few words about the individual plane, because that of course also applies to this group. It's very important that it is used, if they want it. And then it's like you have a right to get someone who is appointed in the ministry to follow up, so that you get the offer that is necessary from the knowledge that you have per. today. We start with the competence network, and as I said, I have great faith in it. In terms of the very sickest and solutions there, I'm very open to different solutions. I am concerned that we need to find offers and solutions that are adapted to those who need it and who obviously do not have enough help today. For some people there may be hospitals, for some people there may be outpatient teams, and for some there may also be beds in hospitals or other solutions. I'm willing also to have a very open attitude to what's best. But at least I'm going to guarantee that I take this very seriously, and I'm going to make sure that we follow up in line with what has been said here in the debate, and that I feel it is very much in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e204	So the debate is on case No. 14 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e218	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e227	I will present the proposal in Document No on behalf of the Energy and Environment Committee. 8:29, from the Right and Advance Party. It is a proposal that largely affects a field that we have discussed before in this Chamber many times. The essence of the proposal is to want a comprehensive energy policy action plan. The majority and the government point to the government statement and to the things we've done since the election, and since the government joined. We also refer to the work to be done in the evaluation of the Energy Act. The proposers point to what is believed to be the majority and the Government has not done. For my part, I want to add that an energy policy action plan does not necessarily need to be a bad idea, but it is a question we will have to come back to when we get the full and complete review of the Energy Act. With that, I present the matter and recommend the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e242	Energy policy has been an important topic in this Chamber since the government change and really long before it. There have been several attempts to obtain cross-political solutions, at least from the opposition, to meet the challenges we know to exist in the power system. Norway is initially an energy-rich country, yet there is a risk of a power crisis in the country as a whole, but not least in Central Norway. It is then important to have a tool and a common understanding of the challenges we face, so that we can get solutions so that we can solve the problem that politicians in general have faced. We have to be able to have an action plan that looks at time horizons, costs and volume in context, instead of talking about heat pumps and pellet stoves when Hydro Aluminium starts up on the Sunndalsøra, and the expansion of the Worm Lange starts in Middle Norway. Then there are many people who say that the Soria Moria statement is the solution – that there you have the whole thing. If we look at what the Soria Moria Declaration has just been presented in the form of concrete policies, it is the conversion of energy use through a support system for pellet foam and heat pump. Furthermore, there is a renewable effort, which has resulted in virtually all renewable projects being iced so far, and where 14 out of 14 consultation bodies have said that the bet is far too bad. The government boasts of Mongstad. Yes, thank you and the price seems to be that there will be gas plants built in Mongstad – because the government has declined the Soria Moria declaration. At least here it's done the right thing. Also on Kårstø it becomes a gas power plant, but the construction was started under the previous government. The Minister of Energy can therefore be pleased to be able to cut over the cord without actually doing anything about it. We see how one of these continues projects and investments that were undertaken under the former government. One might point out that a lot has happened with Statnett, but how much of this has been forced through because we've got a new government? It's awfully small. I repeat, it's awfully small. We have to get out of this Soria Moria dream world: the Prime Minister said at the December conference in Kristiansund that it is not this government it is on to build gas power plants. Anyone who has applied is granted a concession. It's enough to ask the Minister of Energy a question, so you get confirmation that that's not the case. Fortunately, the Minister of Energy is honest, but it puts his own Prime Minister in a little bad light. We should have an energy policy action plan, just to show how to clean up the power situation in central Norway, in the power situation that will arise in Hordaland – as emerged from the hearing – that will arise in the Haugaland and that may arise in the East. When will the projects be realised? What volume will they give? How much will they cost? What solutions should we choose? The NVE uses Austevoll as an example of the importance of maintaining security of supply by forcing against the will of the municipality through a wind turbine project. So there's obviously someone who thinks security of supply is very important. At the same time, the Government continues to doubt that one should not build up the Vefsna, a project that would have given the «heart» times higher power generation than that one will get in Austevoll. It is obvious that there are policies at the bottom — and not a real understanding of the power situation. Central Norway thermal power plants located just where one needs more electricity, and projects for upgrading and upgrading existing plants are automatically refused by the NVE – due to political leadership. Governments have confirmed to Stortinget that hundreds of projects are pending. Where is the action plan to realise them? We stumble from farms: we have to wait for the Energy Act to be dealt with, says the rapporteur on this matter. When will it be? Everything suggests that the Energy Act is likely to be dealt with at the end of the period. Then this Stortinget will have let four years go by without being able to put in place an action plan. If one says it's okay with an energy policy action plan, but that one should wait for the Energy Act, one says yes to the principle, but postpones the matter. Similarly, a large number of decisions are postponed, as has been the subject of a preliminary exposure to the industrial power regime. One postpones the examination of the application from Industriekraft Møre and from Hammerfest Energi. Not least, one has not provided an action plan for Middle Norway, which one earlier said one would do. One should have used this opportunity to create credibility in energy policy. In any case, the actors who are going to make new investments in Norwegian business, and the households and the individuals who are wondering how high the electricity price will be next year, must have confidence that we, as politicians, are concerned about the situation and are not waiting for the next power crisis until we present something. It'll be too late. I think it's sad that the power crisis is obviously the only thing capable of triggering the Storting to come up with action plans. It destroys the credibility of both Norwegian energy policy, Norwegian power industry and – not least – the politicians. Fortunately, the red-greens are in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e265	The president asked whether the representative should make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e268	I am addressing the proposal that the Progress Party has with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e275	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e278	In this debate we should focus on two aspects. Firstly, the Christian People's Party believes that in the light of the challenges we face in terms of climate, energy balance, security of supply and, not least, biodiversity, a comprehensive review of energy policy is appropriate. As part of the international community, it is also important to look at what is happening internationally, and how this affects us. Why is an overall review important? I would like to say that it is only when we see the overall picture, with all its challenges, that it is possible to lead a long-term policy – a policy where, among other things, a policy. must look at the different framework conditions, legislation, charges and financial incentives. Seeing the different challenges — and thus action — in the context will be beneficial, as the Christian People's Party sees it. The draft representative refers only to a part of a larger picture. That is why we have called for a communication on the state of energy in the kingdom, which we believe should come at regular intervals. The second thing we should focus on in today's debate is the relationship between energy policy and climate policy. For me, there are two sides to the same thing. I believe that we cannot think about energy policy without thinking about how energy policy affects the climate. And in climate policy, energy policy should have a central place. That is why we need to bring about a climate policy settlement. I believe that it is only by means of a settlement whether objectives can be agreed on measures. This room is entrusted with a significant responsibility for achieving a climate policy settlement. Such a settlement would require political will and political courage. The Christian People's Party is ready to make such a settlement, and I hope that the other parties too are.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e289	I don't think I'm going to spend that long on this matter. The Committee has also not set aside such a very long speaking time for it. But I would like to remind you that it is no longer than 11 May this year that you gave the position in the exact same case. I do not think the debate was on 11 May, but the committee gave its opinion on 11 May. I think it is important to discuss energy and environmental policies. There's no doubt about it. I think the proposers show great interest in this subject. We're gonna take that ball. If you look at what you have done in relation to the challenges you face, you can see that there is no balance in the Norwegian market. Demand is too high in relation to production, and as we see the future, demand will increase. Then, of course, it's important to focus on getting up production. But I think we need to be quite clear – and of course the proposers too – that we cannot go through a scheme here to increase production without taking into account the climate. It must also be seen in relation to the balance of power, the international market. In these areas, the sitting government delivers. We recognise that the supply situation in Norway is very difficult. If we are to maintain industrial production, we need to bring up new production in the areas that need it. The government has plans here. We don't just have plans, but we're also systematically putting them into life. I know that the opposition doesn't like to hear it when one reminds them that, after all, it's the greatest investment in new renewable energy that we're now basing on. We have targets up to 2016 regarding the amount of renewable energy to enter the Norwegian market. We've set a target for that. The majority of the Grand Duchy has also adopted this. We have a goal for how to get our gas power plants up, and for how to deal with the CO2 challenges that we have. We can't ignore it. We have objectives in the area of wind power, in the case of biofuels, in the case of small-scale power stations, etc. They're in sequence and row, and we're going to get it. But then I would also like to remind you that this government – I shouldn't say that often – has been sitting for three and a half years. But one of the proposers here put four years in government, and I didn't see that there were so many action plans that came at that time either. Everything that had to do with gas power stations and the handling of CO2 was at stake. And they kept talking about that there were potty proposals about green certificates, they were so potty that it was about to boil over. But we saw nothing about those decisions here in Stortinget. But now all of a sudden this pot is about to boil over here in the assembly. And I still ask for concrete things that are up in these pot-ready things that the opposition – except for the Progress Party, which is clear in some of the formulations that they want to have in place – is talking about. So it kind of surprises me that a few months after we last had this up, the options aren't on the table. I think that there is something this government has focused on and worked on, there are the very large and comprehensive projects here, both in terms of new renewable energy, and in terms of the management of gas power stations and bringing up new production here. You do not sit back when you see the power situation in Middle Norway. One has now clearly not only given signals, but one has also acted on how to enter this area. If a situation should arise, it is clear there. That's exactly why you should really have the focus that you've had all along. You have to have an environmentally friendly production, and you have to get up production in a proper and good way, which our descendants too can be familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e310	The President understands that the representative Nordtun will move forward quickly, but the President has come no further than the third month of this year, so it was interesting to the right that the representative has arrived on 11 May – but we have to do that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e313	This spring, the Stortinget has managed to make a pension settlement. There has been a major and important issue, where it has been essential that there has been an overall political Norway – at least most of the parties have been involved – which has supported a sustainable system. There is also a broad consensus that efforts should be made to achieve a climate settlement. I believe that there is also reason to be inspired by the two issues, and to try to get an energy policy settlement. It will then have to start with an energy policy action plan, which will also be based on a sustainable environmental policy. As far as I am concerned, it was positive that the rapporteur, Ola Borten Moe, from the Chair, said that he personally thought it was an energy policy action plan for Norway to be more likely to be in a situation where we have a balance of power, has a lot to do with it. Norwegian energy policy contains a number of paradoxes. Among other things, Norway produces 12 times as much energy for exports as we use this year. Only through Hydro's plant on the Worm Lange do we send gas – if converted into electricity – equivalent to 200 TWh to the United Kingdom, i.e. 80 TWh more than Norway consumes this year. But even in the very favourable energy policy situation we really are in, we can get into power crises and get a strenuous national supply, because 99 pst. our current is produced on hydropower. One year it rains a lot – then there is no problem. One year it rains a little – then it's a problem. So at least we have to secure 30 TWh with energy carriers that are not vulnerable to the weather, in the way that the hydropower is. Being able to create an action plan to make us less vulnerable would have been good. State Council Enoxen started well at this point and said we had to get a force balance. He'd make sure of that. I have a little bigger problems to see what has been taken of concrete initiatives from the Government to achieve that goal. Prime Minister Stoltenberg stood in Nord-Trøndelag on 1 May last year and said that he personally guaranteed that there would be a gas power plant in Skogn. So far, the government has not clarified the framework conditions for a gas power plant in Forest. Then there are the famous green certificates: when we left the government offices, a bill was sent out to consult on the implementation of green certificates. The reason why it had not been put in place before was that Sweden was delayed. This was to happen in cooperation with Sweden. We couldn't have promoted it earlier if it were a single market. The refinancing of Enova also took place as part of this. The problem with the argument used in relation to green certificates today and the fact that it is a historical initiative is that the rate of renewable energy is too low to trigger the potable projects. It's between 4 and 10 cents, and it's probably going to have to go into a 15 and 20 cents to get it triggered. It won't be historic if it doesn't also trigger new initiatives. Spatial plans for small-scale power plants for which the Government is in favour will delay small-scale power and mini-power plants. The industrial power regime is the few people who have heard about it since the last election. Then it was also ready for pot. It was just a matter of political will. The Tidewater Power Plant for Hammerfest Energy is on its way out of the country. It concerns renewable energy. ScanWind's big, impressive windmills in the North Trondelag are on their way out of the country. Fred. The oil's impressive wave power plant is on its way out of the country. There are renewable projects that could have been realised in Norway, so we actually need an energy policy action plan. I noticed that the representative Tore Nordtun thought that the previous government had nothing to boast of, as it had not put the green certificates in place, and he left most of the blame for things not going on the rails, on the previous government. But I do not hear the same argument when unemployment is now falling sharply. Then only today's government is responsible for it. There's a hole in the argument that the representative should hold out too well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e336	We have had similar debates in the United Kingdom not long ago. It is therefore not necessary to address this issue in detail in order to clarify the views of the Left. We do not support the proposal for an energy policy action plan. We are obviously in the situation that there is action we need, not plans. We know what needs to be done to meet the challenges we face. In a normal year, Norway is the net importer of electricity, electricity, and that should not be the case with the natural assumptions we have. The left is concerned with visualising the large potential that one has for saving electricity, in order to better housekeepers with energy. I am of the opinion that had been offensive in terms of saving, one would have been able to cope with what is forecasting for growth for many years to come. There is a lot of evidence that had a set of equivalent sums here that one is willing to put in towards gas power plants when one is going to produce energy and clean CO2, one would have had a significant potential out of a saving and efficiency campaign. There are also great opportunities for increasing renewable energy production. It is regrettable that what should be a historical commitment to renewable energy production is now ending up with what is in several areas close to the European bottom-up level. In the case of wind power aid, only Malta and Estonia have a lower level of aid than Norway has. The result is that this framework for renewable energy production stops more projects than it triggers. As Børge Brende referred to, both wave power, tidal, hydropower and wind power projects are involved. I believe that the natural context of looking at future energy policies is in an overall follow-up to the setting of the Low Emissions Committee. An energy policy action plan must be linked to a strategy to meet the climate challenges. That is why we wanted to see this issue in a broader picture than the proposals put forward by the proposers. I hope that the Council of State will be able to clarify in its statement that the energy policy challenges posed by the setting up of the Low Emissions Committee will be addressed and addressed when presenting sectoral action plans during the spring. The left agrees that we should have ambitions to make a broad climate policy settlement, which also includes strong renewable energy production instruments and to unlock the savings potential. But it is important that this climate agreement is based on an ambitious goal and on an offensive willingness to act. We must not create a climate plan that sets aside the necessary measures because one wants to include all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e354	Last fall we experienced historically high prices and debates here in Stortinget about the situation we were in at the time, while now, a dirty six months later, we have the lowest prices we've had in several years, and full magazines; the situation is quite different from what it was a few months ago. This illustrates, in my opinion, how vulnerable we are to the fact that so much of our power supply comes from hydropower, and that we have a tight balance of power, as we have had for a long time. It is therefore necessary to take action in different areas. I agree with Mr Kvassheim that one of the areas where we have a great potential, and can actually also achieve good results at relatively low costs, is precisely the area of energy efficiency improvement. I've used examples of that earlier, where we're going through grants from Enova of 125 million. kr has been able to achieve energy efficiency performance in industry of 600 GWh, more than an Alta power plant, to have something to compare with. So it's at a price that's approx. one quarter of what we had to use with the rates of aid proposed by the Government for wind power, in order to obtain the same output based on wind power. If we had used the rates that the industry itself asked for, we should have used approx. 900 million. NOK in order to obtain the same output with which we were able to reduce energy consumption, through a grant of 125 million. kr. I think the last thing is reasonable use of community money. There we have a great potential, a potential that we have to exploit. I thought the Left and the representative Kvassheim were to spend money on CO2 management. I am a little in doubt as he formulated himself instead, but we must not forget that what the government started on Kårstø is primarily to handle CO2, as a result of the concession given by previous governments. In this area, we have chosen to be offensive. We're going to be offensive, because it's necessary to use gas power to a greater extent than what we've done, not least to get to a diversified power supply, which is absolutely necessary. That's why we've also maintained the concession on Forest, we've maintained the other concessions that have been granted, and it's given energy concession to Statoil's project on the Tjeldbergodden. It is not, as the proposers claim, that the emission permit has been refused on the Tent Credit. It is under consideration in the Ministry of the Environment. What's the situation, is that Statoil and Shell have jointly launched a different project than the original one, and therefore they do not intend to use the original concession that lies there. Finally, let me say in relation to green certificates – which are a constant repetition – because this is something we have discussed in different contexts: Yes, it is correct that a bill was sent out to the hearing, but there was still one central thing that the previous government had not finished. There were negotiations with the Swedish authorities, negotiations that were absolutely necessary to enable the establishment of a common certification market. What I have not seen from any of the proposers, who claim that we have not had enough production started in different areas, is what you see. So today we have lower power prices than we've had in a long time, and we're further away from profitability in new projects than what we've been in for a long, long time. Of course, it will also be crucial for investors to make decisions. What do you want? Is it high electricity prices, to trigger investment? Is there a subsidisation of gas, in order to trigger new investments? What is the opposition's proposal for new investments? Let me stress that we have started a work on evaluating the Energy Act. I believe that some of the things you need to look at before you can draw up an action plan, or if you look at changes, are the basis. There I agree with those who have already argued it in this debate. A total of nine investigations to be completed over the next six months, relating to investments in production, transmission systems, the framework for gas deployment, energy efficiency improvement and development in the heating sector, shall be carried out to name a few. Let me stress that it has been put up for a broad assessment of these issues. It implies, inter alia, that, as the proposers also refer to in the vote, the investigations are not limited to legal matters only. Investigators shall also assess how other aspects related to framework conditions, to plan and to concession treatment, and for example: emphasising environmental considerations and conditions in the Nordic and Northern European power markets have had an impact on developments following the introduction of the Energy Act and, where appropriate, are making proposals for changes here. This will be completed during the early harvest and the results will be widely available. This will form the basis for further work in this area, which will also provide a good basis for the Stortinge to be involved in assessing changes in energy policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e382	First, the Council asked some questions about where the new investments would come from. It is simple: Say yes to Wefsna, say yes to Industrikraft Møre, say yes to the thermal power plant etc. The projects are there if they only receive approval from the Government. That's where the problem lies. One point in an energy policy action plan could, for example: the use of natural gas in Norway, e.g. directly in the households and in the business community. In Rogaland, Light Energy has had a big investment, Stavanger University Hospitals have converted from oil firing to the use of natural gas, many of the greenhouses in Rogaland go on natural gas, and also many households. This is a significant energy contribution, and then my question is: Is Light's focus on the use of natural gas and the laying of infrastructure in line with or against the Government's wishes for the use of natural gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e389	First of all, it's not that simple that it's just giving concession to gas power plants, and then they're built. We would have had relatively many gas power plants in Norway already, as the representative knows, given several concessions to gas power plants, some of them relatively many years ago. So it's the profitability that determines whether investments are made. Even at a time when the price of gas for export was significantly lower than it is today, gas power plants were not built because it was not profitable. Today the gas price is high, the power price is relatively low, and the profitability is even lower. So granting concession to Industriekraft Møre is of course, as the representative knows, absolutely no guarantee that it will be built gas power plants. It must be profitable for it to be done if production is not to be subsidized in any way. What the government has said is that we want to put things right that way, for example. in relation to the cost of cleaning. It is in line with the government's policy to use domestic natural gas to a far greater extent than what we have done so far. We will also facilitate this, for example. in the form of the establishment of LNG terminals for increased use of gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e396	I was a little surprised at the last part of the Council of State's posts. It seemed like he now, when power prices are low, takes much easier on the challenges we face in terms of security of supply. He takes it so easily that he just as well sends the challenge over to the opposition and asks what the opposition will do to increase production. The representative Solvik-Olsen was in on a couple of them. I think the lesson for an oil and energy minister is that if the electricity prices are low now, they can quickly get much higher, and we can face quite acute situations. First of all, I would like to confirm that the Council of State does not take this lightly, and second, I have two specific questions. Does the Council of State support what Mr Borten Moe said, that an action plan to prevent a future power crisis could be a good idea? And question 2: When will the Council of State follow up the Prime Minister's guarantee that the gas power plant in Forest will be in place in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e403	I don't think the representative has heard my entire post. What I started by saying was that we are now right enough in a better situation than the one we were last autumn. It shows first of all the need to diversify the energy supply, to make sure that we have a good balance of power, not a deficit, as we have had over several years, and so that we are not so unilaterally dependent on hydropower as we have been. That means we also have to use gas power. We need to implement a commitment to energy conversion, take bioenergy and heat into use to a greater extent than what we have done. This theme has been discussed several times. I definitely don't take it any easier now than what I did half a year ago – on the contrary. As the representative says, action needs to be taken. In conclusion, what I said was that we are now in the process of a series of investigations. No less than nine partial studies shall be completed during the autumn. They will provide a good basis for, for example: an action plan and further work on legislative changes and on changes in energy policy in different areas, including: to put in place new production. We'll get back to this. Those investigations are a necessary basis for making reasonable decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e410	In an incubation, I think, the Council of State forgot to answer my question. He was just talking about gas power plants, and he probably didn't answer when the first spa roof was to be taken in the woods. Light Energy has spent several hundred million dollars building infrastructure to get households, industry, greenhouses and hospitals to start using natural gas. Now we know that the Minister for the Environment has gone out and criticized this quite greedily this past week. Then the question is, is there Light Energy that has made mistakes by betting on the use of natural gas? Or is it the Minister for the Environment who is on a collision course with the Government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e417	As I said in my reply, the government wants to facilitate increased domestic use of natural gas. This is why, in the course of the last year, we have provided grants to a large number of LNG reception terminals, in order to make widespread use of, among other things. LNG domestic. For example, the largest reception terminal in the country is placed. to the Sea for the purpose of using gas in industry. It is a good environmental policy measure, which is important for industrial competitiveness. That's what I said in my previous answer. In the case of Forest, it has been the job, almost since I joined, to find good solutions for Forest. Some of the things that have been done are that, in dialogue with the owners of the forest, an adjustment has been made to that project, which includes: include bioenergy. Let me underline: the commitment to renewable energy will be the main track of the Government in the future as well. Energy efficiency improvement, use of bioenergy, energy conversion to more heat and investment in wind power and small power are the main tracks of the Government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e426	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e432	For two rounds of less than one year, the Progress Party has promoted a completely identical proposal, now last with the Right. In both rounds, the government parties, as the rapporteur stated in an excellent way, have argued that the energy policy and energy plan are contained in the Soria-Moria Declaration. In this way, it may be unreasonable to spend a lot of time on this matter tonight, but I still think that you can stay up to date. So in a year's time, the proposers have not demonstrated in any way greater creativity through their proposals, on the contrary. And then there they're actually on the spot resting, if you're going to use that expression. They make nothing visible, except to bring up the need for new power generation, which we, after all, agree on. The Council of State presented in an excellent way what is actually coming when one is now looking at the Energy Act in a broad sense, that it is the key to new power generation. The most significant is the evaluation and, where appropriate, the actions that a person is able to obtain. I have a great sense of what Børge Brende invites Stortinget to, just to make a broad energy deal about new production measures in Norway. But that's when I want to send the challenge to Børge Burnde, because it's at least, as I see it – and he probably has experience with it from the government itself – quite difficult to make wide-ranging comparisons in the case of new power generation in Norway. If we talk about gas power plants, we know we're going to crack. If we talk about large subsidies for hydropower, wind power and bioenergy, someone will go out about wind power and say it is completely unacceptable. If we talk about hydropower, too, it will be impossible for too many people to agree. I would therefore just like to make a recommendation at the end of this debate: when the Progress Party and the Right are most likely to make similar proposals in a year's time, can they then be so kind as to show what the opposition actually agrees on with regard to new production measures in Norway? They can't do that. I see it so that the opposition cracks in all directions as one goes down in the details of this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e441	The representative Aasland said it was coming to the end of the debate, but when I look at the assembly now, I fear it will last one more hour. The representative of Klungland has arrived. Yes, twice we have promoted this proposal. We are promoting it once a year because it is a very good proposal, which should certainly have been given a majority. And until the majority in the Chamber understands that, we will continue to promote it. It is not difficult for the Government to say that they will present an energy policy action plan. There is nothing here that binds the Government to any means. What we're asking is that one puts the cards on the table, so that we can sit down together, in Stortinget, and say what Norwegian energy policy should be like in the years to come, to solve the challenges that we know are there. We have promoted the proposal twice. The government has not made any proposals as alternatives. So the representative of Aasland is calling for our proposals to meet this. Then I hope that the representative of Aasland will sit down and take a good note, perhaps he will be able to develop old settings and look at proposals from the minority, which have therefore not received the government's support. There he will be able to find proposals, interpellations and questions that go on thorium, CO2 value chain, green certificates, which state that the limit for small-scale power plants is 3 MW and not 1 MW, that one should have a local handling of small-scale power plants instead of NVE doing everything and that one should have an overall wind energy plan. Today, we have proposed a representative that one should not force municipalities to have wind power against their will. We have said that we should review rejected applications for the development of hydropower, we have said that one should not protect Wefsna, we have said that one should provide support for upgrading and extension of existing hydropower plants, etc. If the representative of Aasland has not received any of these proposals, but says that the proposal in its present position is the only proposal the opposition has promoted, assembled or individually, then I must almost ask if the representative has been present during the committee proceedings for the last and a half years. I can send a written list to the representative, if he needs it, then he has it for the next debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e455	The representative of Klungland has not asked for the floor and the debate on case No. 15 is over. [[(Moonness of the hall) (Votation, see page 2500)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e463	Storting goes to voting about today's things.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e471	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the Right and on the Left 2-4, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right-wing Proposals No. 5-7, by Mr Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8, from Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of Right and Left The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 8, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the long-distance sections of train traffic and to promote a plan to outsource routes where there is potential for improvement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e501	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5-7, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e531	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e555	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure quality assurance that, in the case of the purchase of train equipment, the NSB ensures that the material tackles Norwegian weather conditions.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e572	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to start its work of launching a number of routes in 2007’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e602	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, submitted by the meeting of 20 March 2007 of Mr Odelstinget [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 47):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e621	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, submitted by the meeting of 20 March 2007 of Mr Odelstinget [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 47):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e640	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, submitted by the meeting of 20 March 2007 of Mr Odelstinget [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 47):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e659	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, submitted by the meeting of 20 March 2007 of Mr Odelstinget [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 47):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e678	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted from the meeting of Odelstingen on 26 March 2007, based on basic training of 280 hours and compressed initial training of 140 hours.’» [[professional driver directive]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e697	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 26 March 2007 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 48):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e716	A vote is taken on the proposal of Mr Solvency Horne on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 20 March 2007 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 43):]] The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e737	A vote is taken on the proposal of Mr André Oktay Dahl on behalf of Mr Right from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 20 March 2007 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 43):]] The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e759	A vote is taken on the proposal of Mr André Oktay Dahl on behalf of Mr Right from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 20 March 2007 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 43):]] The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e776	There is no voting theme in cases No. 11-14.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e784	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for action to be taken on an energy policy action plan dealing with expected power consumption and production in Norway, the availability of different energy technologies and an overall commitment to the development of new energy sources.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29-2.ana.ud2271e841	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? The President wants all the deposit representatives to have a really good Easter. - The meeting's been cancelled.
