ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e60	There is no record.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e74	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e90	It's an unusual experience to see the reality of this pulpit, and the first thing you notice is that the pulpit is not marked by wear. It is linked to a rule which is not written anywhere in Storting's Rules of Procedure, but which is a customary rule, namely that all the debate on laws takes place in Odelstinget, and the debate on reality is not usually held in Lagtinget. Now, as you know, there's no rule without exception, and it's probably also true for unwritten rules. The reason why I have asked for the floor in the matter is that the Right and Christian People's Party does not find it possible to vote in accordance with the usual principle of proceedings in the Lamentations, and that is for two reasons, to which I am going to come back. One has to do with the history of the law and the process up to the decision of Odelsting. The second has to do with the substance of the bill, which is extremely relevant to issues of principle, and issues that have a far greater scope than ordinary law. Allow me to deal with the proposal first. It's distributed in the seats in the hall. It is, as I said, a proposal that is being made on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. First of all, a general observation. It appeared both in the Odelstingen debate on the legislative proposal and in the public debate on the matter, which has been going on for quite a long time, that this is an area in which the use of language is highly valued. In the legislative proposal there is a real inconsistency with regard to the exchange back and forth between «embryo» and «overly fertilised eggs», despite the fact that the proposition clearly states that it is one and the same case. This is because, at my discretion, the term ‘overly fertilised eggs’ is suitable to cover the realities more than to reveal the realities. I'll come back to that. There have also been a number of debates, including in Odelstinget, on the concept of ‘sorting’ and the word ‘sorting societies’. It is certainly right to characterise it in such a way that the majority of Odelsting stated that the disliked use of the word ‘sort’ in this context, and wished that the word should not be used, while the minority in Odelstinget found the word to be true. I have consulted the book dictionary as well as the new book on the occasion of the case. The book dictionary says "sorter", of Latin sors – weight, fate. So the first thing to do is to divide by variety, that is, by type or by species, and as secondary meaning, sort by, that something that's native to a particular category. In the new book, it says ‘sort’: – ‘ordered in varieties’, ‘separate’. As far as I can see, the term'sort' is the most striking word that can be found at all in the language of the real problem you're facing. This applies both to the least far-reaching proposal in the law, namely the negative excretion of embryos in order to prevent disease facilities being passed on through implantation in a uterus, and to an even greater extent to the wider proposal, namely that, in addition to separating the embryos that are carriers of disease facilities, a process is also intended to separate a significant number of embryos which are not carriers of any disease facility at all, but which have only one deficiency in their failure to meet the defined criteria for serving as a donor sister. I find it very difficult to understand the reluctance to use the word'sort' in this context, because, as I said, at my discretion, it is a very precise description. No one would have had anyone inside if the reality of the matter was limited to the desire to select a healthy embryo, for that desire is morally legitimate and understandable to the highest degree. The problem is that the only way to put it into practice is to throw away a significant number of embryos that do not correspond to the defined objective, i.e. That in order to choose, you have to run away. And that's exactly what we call'sort' in every other context in this world. Even more markedly, I think this comes out of the second element, that is, looking for a tissue composition of the embryo in question that allows it to be used for a predefined purpose, that is to say, to correspond as closely as possible to the tissue composition of an already born individual. In fact, a double sorting process is required — first to destroy all the fertilised eggs, or embryos, that are carriers of disease facilities that are defined as undesirable, and then to carry out a new selection. There are slightly different opinions among experts on the probability calculation in this picture, but at least there is a probability that only every five of the healthy embryos will be statistically probable as tissue-type — i.e. that for each embryo to be searched, four fully healthy, functional embryos will have to be rejected. So to the three substantive elements of the case. It is presented in the proposal – and also from the majority of Odelstinget – as if access to embryo research, introduced by this legislative proposal, is clearly restricted. It is according to my terms to present the matter incorrectly. The only precise delimitation is the 14-day delimitation – that research on an embryo is not allowed after it has exceeded the 14-day deadline. It's brilliantly clear. On the other hand, the term ‘overly fertilised eggs’ is anything but clear. It's a very tidy concept. It is not that the characteristic ‘overall’ is written on an embryo as an intrinsic property. The plurality is defined by the researchers who are in charge of the screening procedure, i.e. it is the result of a legislator’s own decisions that the category of ‘overly fertilised eggs’ exists at all. The second thing to say is that when you produce the case in such a way that there are two options — either the embryos mentioned are destroyed after the expiry of the storage period in the current law, or they become the subject of research — this is also a distorted production. The alternative is not research or destruction. The alternative is destruction with or without research, and that difference is quite important if you want a precise description of what the dilemma is. Behind the argument in the proposition, and from the majority of Odelsting, there is a model of thought that I have to say that I, the older I get, become more and more skeptical of, namely, the intention is to allocate the means. Because the intention is undeniably good, the means must also be accepted, despite the fact that the means in itself is completely unequivocally reprehensible. The reason for my scepticism is that history is full of examples of what this model of thought has led to – in a good sense. The other thing that makes me fundamentally skeptical about the demarcation is that it's based on assumptions of intention. It is the most difficult of all to control through legislation. Intention is a criterion that in most legal cases is useless in practice, simply because intention cannot be established. The majority base their reasoning on the fact that there is a decisive, principled difference between embryos that have been produced during infertility treatment and embryos that have not been produced during infertility treatment but are, in fact, at risk of being used for research purposes. The problem is that everyone knows that today’s established plurality practice means that everyone knows – those responsible for the treatment know best – that there is a limited sample of the eggs they fertilise, which are actually going to be used for the purpose of treatment. And this is the result of human decisions. There's only a limited number of these that are ever going to be inserted into the womb with a view to starting a normal pregnancy course and thus a new individual. It is known – and done with open eyes – that an indefinite number of the embryos that are produced will not serve that purpose, but will therefore be subject to storage and then destruction under the law of the day, or will be the subject of research and then destruction. So I don't think the reasoning is, because it's simply not right that the category of "overly numerous embryos" has come up with the explicit intention of creating a new person. Most of them have been produced as a result of human decisions and appropriateness considerations. The qualitative difference between the embryo provided for the purpose of providing the service for research and the embryo provided as a by-product of infertility treatment is then eliminated as ethically irrelevant. A comment on this first point, the opening of access to research on embryos. It has been included as a main argument in the proposal and by the majority of Odelsting that research in this area should be able to cure a significant number of listed diseases. You could almost be tempted to say, "There's most of it listed, and it would have been easier to list the diseases you don't imagine to be cured by this type of research." Even there, life has taught me to be fundamentally skeptical. I've lived most of my life in research environments, and have led one of the country's largest research institutions. But there's nothing that makes me more skeptical than when researchers at the basic research stage sell their projects through promises of what might possibly come out of them once in the future. There are promises that are even less valuable than average election vows. Let me also add as a topical and thought-provoking example to illustrate this issue, that as late as the 1990s we were subjected to pressure as legislators to give legal support for what was then sold as the great promising new direction of research, namely research on the tissues of aborted foetuses. And the Storting let itself be willing to use to open the access. Today everyone knows that this was a research blind lead. It didn't lead anywhere. All that was achieved by initiating clinical experiments, including: At the University of Lund, in addition to those from which they had previously been burdened, Parkinson’s patients, additional plagues and stress were applied. There is reason to be extremely careful in making assumptions about the possible results of basic research at the bottom of decisions of principle of the nature to which the bill invites. So to the two versions of access to preimplantation diagnostics. It also leads me finally to what I announced in the introduction, namely how this law has been made, that is, the history of the previous growing-up period. There is also agreement in Odelsting that there should be a small opening in the very rare cases where parents have been found to be carriers of certain types of heritable disease risk, through previously documented experience, that in such cases there should be a slight opening to test an embryo before being inserted into the woman’s womb. But there's a lot of disagreement about how to define this opening. I am afraid that a solution of convenience has also been chosen here, which will prove to be a skin solution on closer inspection, by passing on the denominator model from the Mehmet case in the previous period, correct with a new composition of the denominator and with some changes in the criteria to be taken into account. But as I read the decision from Odelstinget, the combination of names and criteria is still so that with almost certainty the limit probability can end that the denominator is going to lie down on a liberal practice. Before I finally came to the donor sister issue: what happened in the Stortinget in the previous period was known as a proposal for a new paragraph to provide a basis for a very concrete case, which the media had then made a very big case, in order to give legal reasons for a certain named boy to be subject to a particular type of treatment to which the law did not allow access. It was a very complicated committee discussion in Stortinget, and it was a very complicated debate that led to a compromise. It is worth noting that some of those who were main actors in that process, in retrospect, have repeatedly said publicly that they bitterly regret what they were involved in, and that they should never have been involved in facilitating the compromise decision that the Storting made. I have to say I have a lot of understanding for that. The government hearing note that preceded the billing proposal indicated that the denominator had relied on a unique practice, namely to grant virtually 100 pst. of the applications. The hearing note also showed that the reason for this was that it interpreted the big decision so that the Storting had provided that the specific matter was to be agreed – then I am talking again about the Mehmet case. The problem is that the Ministry in its consultation note does not at all problematising this. If you go back and look at the bulk treatment, you will know that there was no large number of people who provided that the specific application was to be accepted. For a significant part of the majority behind the decision in Stortinget, it was contrary to the explicit premise that it should be considered on a free basis and that it was not wanted to take a stand on it. So that means that we've had a denominator practice after the time that really doesn't have a basis in the big number's position at all. And it's uncertain what it is that has been called to rely on a practice that essentially presupposes that the Storting has given its support to something that the majority of people have not at all agreed to. In general, it means that I believe that, as legislators on difficult value issues, we do well not to shift responsibility away from us by constructing so-called independent names that will make the unpleasant choice instead of the legislators. I think the experience in this case speaks for it is not a good way. It is now the cursed duty of the legislators – I would have said – to take their own stand on the difficult balancing issues that legislation is going to regulate. At the very end of the question about the donor sister. Here again, I think that the majority is based on sand ground in its rationale to open up this opportunity. In fact, one says against the adjacent fundamental objection that it is part of the Western European cultural tradition, at least since Kant, that no human life should be regarded as a means of another human life, it should be considered as a purpose in itself. Against this objection, the majority say: Yes, but it must be assumed that the parents want this child anyway – and thus the child wants it for its own sake. But that reasoning doesn't make sense, because it can serve as a basis for an unknown number of healthy embryos that are demonstrably not carriers of any disease facility, but that would, after all the sunmarks, evolve into normally functioning humans, that a significant number of embryos are rejected in order to find out exactly what fits the overall purpose? By the natural method – to the extent that one can use that expression in this context – it is, if I have understood the professionals correctly, that one does not insist on carrying out the very complex process of searching for tissue-type similarity, approximately. 20 pst. the probability that it will be fulfilled anyway. But you weren't satisfied with 20 pst. chance, you want to raise it to 100 pst., and you're willing to include the destruction of embryos to achieve its purpose. Although the complex treatment process was to succeed, which in most cases it does not, and there is reason to look back with fright at the media campaign that was run in the last majority, which led the Norwegian people consistently behind the light by pretending that there is an established treatment, and that it was only the then health minister, who was heart-calling and almost like a killer, who prevented this from immediately being put out in life. Everyone sees it today: it was leading people behind the light. Mehmet, who was the source of this whole process, is in exactly the same situation today as he was before the whole legislative process began. It shows at least one thing: that this per cent. Today, there is an additional experimental form of treatment, where there are very many steps in the process that must be successful if we are ever to be able to achieve what has been hoped for. I have spent such a long time – it is relatively rare, as we know, that we seize each other’s time in the Lamentations meetings – I assume that it must be allowed for once, the importance of the matter taken into account, and also considering that this may be the last debate in the Lamentations history.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e154	The President understands this so that the representative indemnification has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e157	The changes of the Biotechnology Act in relation to pre-implantation diagnostics and research on abundantly fertilised eggs are an important principle matter for the Christian People's Party, and therefore this article here in Lamentationet. The right to life is fundamental and makes man stand in a special position. The Christian People's Party believes that all legislation must be based on respect for the inviolable value of human life. Human life cannot be assessed against other objectives. Legislation and medical-ethical issues related to the beginning, maintenance and life process will continue to change, but for the Christian People's Party it is ethics that limits the use of technology, and not the other way around. There is probably a major difference in the debate on biotechnology, namely by human vision and the willingness to set ethical boundaries for technology. By opening up research on fertilized ova or embryos, we accept the instrumentalization of germinal life, and thus use it as a goal to achieve something else. The Christian People's Party suggests that no individual should be reduced to a means for other individuals, since each life is a goal in itself. In my opinion, the majority of the Odelsting set the goal of society to treat sick people in front of such a mindset. The majority of odelsting opens up to testing embryos to prevent a child from being born if the child has a disease that society considers incompatible with a dignified life. Where are the limits going? Are we politicians who are going to tell people with disease that their lives are incompatible with a worthy life? The Christian People's Party does not want us to move towards a sort society. That's why we want to protect the weakest and most helpless of all human life, namely the embryo. As far as biotechnology research is concerned, no one knows whether or when stem cells from the fertilised egg can be used to treat serious diseases for which we do not have treatment options today. Several have warned against oversolding this. Research needs to be focused on increasing knowledge of disease and improving the ability to find new treatment methods, but research needs to be ethically sound. I had expected greater humility and caution from representatives of the red-green government parties just in relation to this part of the law changes. Yes, we need to be positive about new technology, because it can accommodate opportunities that can save lives, but we also need to be aware that there are other aspects to this technology development. It's our responsibility as legislators also to focus on these consequences. It is always important that medical innovation comes to the fore of individuals and society, but it is necessary to set some limits. That is why the Labour Party government in its time proposed a biotechnology law – we had no law until 1994 – and therefore, as early as 1987, the Stortinget proposed a ban on research on just fertilised eggs. As the representative for Wage was in his post, these changes in the law we are discussing today are essentially about what society we want. New technology allows us to sort out genetic properties of embryos in order to avoid anyone being born. Several hearing bodies have been critical to open up to donor children, i.e. creating a child to help a sick sister or brother. At this point we are now crossing a very fundamental limit, and there is also very little knowledge of the consequences of being born for such a purpose. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are committed to facilitating a society in which everyone should live independently, regardless of their function. Often it is not a disease that has, which is the biggest challenge, but the many obstacles in everyday life that come from lack of organisation, from poor support schemes and from not being met with respect. Building down the barriers of society precisely in this area and creating the basis for everyone to live their lives on their assumptions is fundamental to everyone. This fight is a Christian People's Party, and we will never give up on it. Against this background, we ask the Creation not to approve the Odelsting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e176	The regulatory time for the morning meeting is approaching the end, and the President is asking for the consent of the Chamber to continue the meeting until all matters on the agenda have been settled. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e179	The left is the bid to be on a change in law that opens up to research on overcrowded eggs, but the left cannot support a change in law that arises because we ignore the value of the individual human being. We're not here to open it for the donor sister. Left sees the human being as so unique that it must have a one-and-pen-value in itself. We thus support the Right and Christian People's Party in the fact that the promise is not signed. That's because of this with the donor sister.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e184	The Progress Party will support a proposal to open up research on overly fertilized eggs, considering that we want to relieve pain and to make everyday life better for our fellow human beings. The representative of Inge Wohnung has his own ability to try to interpret what others of us might mean, and what others of us would have to write. What we write, he doesn't accept. He reads it his own way. Of course, he must be allowed to do so. As self-informed judges, he claims to know absolutely what we had to mean in addition to what had to be written. That the representative's wages have those stalls, he'll be in charge of his own account. We, who make up the plural, stand on what is in the proposal. We stand on what we think and claim. For us, this is a matter of allowing a research that can help our fellow human beings, that can relieve pain, and that can help to try to find medicine and methods that allow us to eradicate diseases that take too many lives at too young an age. Let me be so rude that I also interpret a little. That the Right Party and the Christian Party will not be involved in this, may become their cause, as I see it. In our opinion, there are clear limits to this bill. When it comes to the problem of researching excess fertilised eggs, there are a number of limitations. It's not a full opening, as some people, represented here by the representative, express. It must be allowed to claim it, but I'm of the opinion that here there are clear limits that make it not free for a society to go where none of us want to go. One said in the old days that one should not mess with the creation. Maybe you shouldn't. But I don't think our Lord wants us to take care of this earth so that we don't help our fellow human beings to avoid suffering, both in the past and in the future. I have to say that I get hurt, because I too have lived for a while – if not as long as the representative's wages – and life has taught me and taught me to become older I become, that perhaps the greatest gift of my life from now on is to help my fellow human beings, both physically and mentally, to get a better everyday life than they have today. One of my greatest tasks is perhaps also to be with – as far as I can be with – and to help my successors also get a life of dignity. They need to know that his father did what he could to make this work. I have lived so long that I have lost a father, a brother, and a sister in cancer, and I have lost a mother in Parkinson's disease. What I can further tell you – I get a little personal – is that I know that I get hurt and shaken when it is claimed that my human vision is not good enough, when I know that my father, my brother, and my sister died, is a genetic defect in my family. Now, fortunately, our Lord has done so that I do not have that gene error. But should it take away my right to help, so that there is further research on this, preferably on excess fertilized eggs, so that one can figure out how to avoid my nephews and my nieces suffering the same fate as their parents? I don't want to be in on this. I want to have a good conscience because I have done my job, but I have thus been so busy with the creation of our Lord that it would not be helpful to help my fellow human beings, because there is a limit there. Of course, it does, but I feel quite certain that there are limitations in this bill that make it impossible for a person to deal more with the creation than I believe – and I say believe – that our Lord will accept it on the day we were asked that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e201	This is a very important matter, which is of great importance for the future, linked to several areas. Technological developments are moving faster and faster for each coming year. More knowledge in different areas gives us new opportunities to develop technologies and achieve medical innovations. It's probably not in any area other than medicine and technology that this progress has gone so fast. We see that people today are being treated, getting drugs that were previously completely impossible to get access to, but that it might have been possible to dream of being in a certain future. However, in order for us to have the opportunity to develop this, it is important that we amend the Biotechnology Act, which has been decided by the Odelsting, a decision that can be implemented from 2008. One shall also facilitate coordinated, strong research through a joint centre for this activity, where research on adult stem cells is still being carried out, where good progress has been made, and where there are also opportunities to achieve good new treatment methods for serious diseases. Adult stem cells are something we all have in our bodies, but not in the same way that stem cells from fertilized eggs can become all kinds of cells in our body. Adult stem cells therefore have more limited possibilities. With regard to the other major questions in the bill, about pre-implantation and what is called pre-implantation in combination with tissue typing, i.e. PGD/HLA, I just want to focus on saying, as has been said by the rapporteur in Odelstinget, that a very tight framework has been drawn up, so that it is not open to anyone to research in those areas. It is known that couples who are at risk of having children with very serious, partly fatal diseases, and who may be suffering from severe disorders may receive an approved application for an examination of naturally fertilised eggs. So you don't mess with the genera, it's fertilized eggs that have come out naturally. Then I can't believe that it's an ethical problem to help people who are carriers of serious diseases, who want to bring children to the world, but who don't want the child to be burdened with serious diseases with fatal outcomes. We have Duchenne children, which you know has a lifetime of up to 20 years. It says something about how their future lies in how we can develop alternative medicines – so they don't have to have children with deadly disease. I find it very hard to understand that you have this scepticism. If you, for example, find out that you are pregnant with a seriously ill child, there is the possibility of applying for abortion. It is possible after 12 weeks in the case of completely serious diseases. But sorting out artificially fertilised bulky eggs that you can insert should not be possible. I mean, if you have twelve eggs in front of you, and you're going to put one in by artificial fertilization and choose a fresh egg, I don't think it's a sort society. It's natural stem cells that have the genera that both mother and father have in their bodies. To involve concepts like sorting societies in this debate, as the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have done, I think more like scare propaganda. It's not about dealing with genetics, it's not about cloning or copying people and animals, it's not about messing with how man is created naturally. I believe that since we have been treating biotechnology initially, Norway has built on a clear ban on cloning human beings, animals and legacy plants. And we're sure of that now. Secondly, we must ensure that this research, which is to be developed in the future, is carried out within a sound framework, i.e.: within a framework governed by a public health system. That's how we can create transparency, good control, good lawmaking and prevent crime. It is important to open up this kind of research. When we look around the world, we see that this research is being conducted in large global medical companies that want to take patents on the new treatments they are looking for and that want to build a monopoly in the areas where medical progress may be made. We have already seen that a large global medical company has taken on patents, for example. The breast cancer gene in women, in order to have the exclusive right to develop treatments in this area. We will be able to see future legal cases about these patents, which are very problematic. One important aspect of this is that Norway, even after we have, hopefully, taken this decision today, is committed to international bodies, in relation to the UN, so that this legislation in the field of international patents is properly placed, so that, in the case of natural genes in the human beings under investigation, it is not possible to take patents on natural genes and prevent other research environments from taking action elsewhere in the world. We should start a long-term research project here in the country about this, after legislation is in place. We have a large and good environment, for example. at the Radium Hospital-Rikshospitalet. I think it's important, if you look at the major public diseases, Alzheimer's, diabetes, Parkinson's, Duchenne children, etc., that if there are solutions in the research and development environments, at least we don't have to limit it. At least we have to give it the opportunity and at the same time have a framework to control the environments that are. But this isn't about fooling around with the genes that humans have. Therefore, we hope that the Installation confirms Odelsting’s decision in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e227	I have great respect for different opinions, and especially in a matter that is quite difficult. But I don't think it's a good thing to attach to the counterparty what you don't have. I also react to a part of the word used by the representative for pay here, and I will just quote one of the many. The representative Wages said that «Sorter» is «the most striking word for the real problem». [[...]] I strongly disagree with that. The proposals promoted here do not alter the principles enshrined in the Biotechnology Act’s objective paragraph to exploit technology for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. By allowing PGD – preimplantation diagnostics – I understand that some fears sort out based on the characteristics and abilities of the future child. This is an unlikely scenario, as I see it. Although one can currently test for many different properties on one and the same egg, it will not be possible to select for special abilities, for example. within music, mathematics, sport or whatever it is, for such abilities are not regulated by a single gene. Furthermore, the quantity of fertilised eggs will not be sufficient to carry out that type of selection. It is also not appropriate to examine fertilised eggs for example. Down syndrome, as some – not today, but in the public debate – have expressed a desire for. It is also not relevant with so-called designer babies. This is not desirable – nor is it practicable. By allowing research on surplus fertilised eggs on very strict conditions – I believe the representative Wohnning is wrong when he says that it is not strict conditions – we can, in the long term, we believe, provide treatment for a number of serious diseases. It's a very important goal for this government. When we discuss this matter, I would like to stress that we are engaged in facilitating a society where there is room for all people. Such a value shall be taken into account for any proposal related to questions of medical use of biotechnology in relation to research into fertilised eggs or pre-implantation diagnostics. The ethical aspects of the medical use of biotechnology must, as a matter of fact, continue to weigh heavily. As regards the basis for the discussion of the legislative proposal under discussion today, I would like to stress that it is a key issue for the Government to facilitate research, including stem cell research. We want it to be allowed in controlled forms and within clearly defined ethically sound frameworks. Firstly, if the layering goes in the same way as the majority in Odelstinget, research on surplus fertilised eggs is open when the aim is to improve the methods of assisted fertilisation and genetic testing of a fertilised egg. Secondly, research, including stem cell research, may be opened up when the aim is to acquire new knowledge for the treatment of serious human diseases and thus may help to find methods for treating serious human diseases in the future. As the representative Solholm and several others have been involved, it may include dementia, cancer, Parkinson’s disease, spinal cord injury, type 1 diabetes, to name a few. I hear that the Right – especially the Representative for Wage – and the Christian People's Party have no faith in this. You're welcome. We have not oversold the opportunity, but have said that we believe that opening up research on this could provide more knowledge and more treatment options in the long term. I would like to stress strongly that the proposed legislative change only opens up research on fertilised eggs that have been left behind after test tube treatment and would otherwise have been destroyed. It will not be permitted to fertilise eggs only for research purposes, as some give the impression. In artificial fertilisation or IVF treatment, it is proposed that the minimum amount of eggs should be fertilised. No more eggs shall be fertilised than strictly necessary. Therefore, any legislative amendment does not mean that more eggs will be destroyed than is necessary to ensure proper artificial fertilisation. And I underline again: this should happen within ethically sound limits and under official control. Research on fertilised eggs must take place no later than 14 days after fertilisation of the egg. If one had opened up to it, I think it would have been beyond an ethical limit it does not seem to have been accepted for – neither by us nor in other countries. Fertilised eggs that have been the subject of research shall be destroyed, not introduced into a woman. Furthermore, research into fertilised eggs resulting in genetic changes that can be inherited in humans will not be permitted. All research projects involving the use of surplus fertilised eggs and their derived material shall be approved by a Regional Ethical Committee for Medical and Health Research Ethics – before the start of the research. Research on such material may be carried out only on the basis of the consent of the couple. If the fertilisation has been carried out with donor semen, the consent of the semen donor is required for the research. Having said this, I would say that I find it difficult to accept the individual claim, that there is no framework for the research that might be started. I also assume that the Regional Ethics Committee will examine each project application carefully and assess whether the research applied for is within the framework of the Biotechnology Act. It is my opinion that the possibilities for research on surplus fertilised eggs that the Biotechnology Act thus opens up will be of benefit to people and to our society. Research on stem cells has been a field of activity in Norway for several years, but, as several have mentioned, only on stem cells from born persons. That's still the way it should be. However, there are significantly greater expectations related to stem cells from fertilised eggs. We must – if there is a majority of the bill – invest in this research in an ethically and professionally sound manner, with respect for human integrity and for human dignity. In addition to the bill to open up research on surplus fertilised eggs, it is proposed as known changes to the preimplantation diagnostics rules, PGD, a genetic examination of fertilised eggs before they are introduced into the uterus. This method assumes that the pair performs a test tube fertilisation. The reason for our proposal to allow PGD is to enable couples who have facilities for a serious genetic condition to achieve pregnancy without passing the very serious disease on to the foetus. PGD is a resource-intensive method. The technology is difficult and requires a high level of competence and long experience. Studies per year Today, only 16 p.m. the treatment cycles result in children. The legislative proposal presupposes the restrictive use of PGD and the provision of the method to couples who are at high risk of transmission of serious hereditary disease to the foetus. It is also important for me to stress that the couple should receive neutral information and genetic guidance before applying for PGD. That information shall include, inter alia: include the nature of the risks associated with this treatment, the nature of the burden this may impose on women, and they shall be informed of the likelihood of success. PGD can only be offered where one or both are carriers of a serious hereditary disease. I underline again – we are not talking about e.g. Down syndrome. In my opinion, the limited use of PGD that the bill opens up means using medical biotechnology for the benefit of humans. I do not share the view of the Right and Christian People's Party of this bill, and I do not believe that this is contrary to the objective of the Biotechnology Act. Regarding the question of PGD in combination with HLA, which can make it possible to have a healthy child who can also be a donor to a sick sibling if the healthy and sick child has the same tissue type, I have noticed that someone believes that it is ethically objectionable to open it up. I also hear that someone thinks it is suspicious to leave a child with the expectation that it should be able to serve as a donor for a sick sister or brother. To that I would say that it will never be relevant that children born as a result of PGD should donate organs to the sick child. It is clear from the Transplant Act that only renewable tissues can be extracted in this case. I am of the opinion that I believe that the parents who sincerely want children do so for many reasons, and because they want that child. I have that confidence in Norwegian parents, whom I have as parents in other countries. Giving people other motives at least I don't have any sense of. In order to ensure non-discrimination and sound practice, I believe it is appropriate to have a national name that assesses and decides on applications for PGD, including the PGD/HLA combination. It is suggested that in this case PGD/HLA should continue to be carried out abroad, that we should not build up specific treatment services for PGD/HLA in Norway. To the extent that competence is to be built up in relation to research on fertilised eggs that can be used for PGD/HLA, it opens up so that that competence can be used in Norway if this is less resource-intensive than doing it in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e271	Let me first say that it is search if someone perceives it so that I have assigned them opinions they do not have. Then I would like to know what the opinions in the case are, because in my contribution I tried to stick exactly to what is in the case's documents from the majority, what was claimed in the debate in Odelstinget, and what is in the bill of the Government. I can't see that at any point I have added any meaning that goes beyond what you have actually committed to through the voting in Odelstinget. Let me also say that the entire article to the representative Solholm and also the statements of the Council of State just confirmed that their opinion is exactly the one that I tried to reproduce as precisely as possible, and that I presented my arguments against. Their entire posts were a continuous confirmation that they were exactly in favour of the position I argued against. I do not believe that Odelsting's decision means that all doors are opened at a gap. I've never said that, and I don't mean that. I believe that an honest attempt has been made to introduce some criteria that should be addressed. I have pointed out why I do not believe that those criteria will work in the real world, but that they will just lead to the kind of denominator practice that we have now had for several years, and which does not have the coverage of the Bill of the Great Britain, but which is actually clearly contrary to the previous Bill of the Great Britain. You almost have to take that over. Let me say that what I'm having trouble understanding is that someone can stand on this pulpit and say that they don't realize that someone has ethical contradictions against wanting to help people. No, I don't have any anti-ethical ideas against someone wanting to help, but I am demanding the tools you use to help people. It's now the way with us people that our understanding of what we're doing is limited. That the meaning is good has never been a sufficient justification for what you do. Most of the greatest accidents in human history have been well-implemented. It must be allowed to bear in mind that even in Norwegian medical research history, we have more than enough examples of experimental measures that were widely implemented in the best sense in the world and that we today agree from any point of view were irresponsible. It's enough to remember the lobotomy issue, which has also been dealt with by the Storting in many rounds. It is a classic example that it is not a sufficient condition that the meaning is good, if the action itself is clearly irresponsible. The Council of State said in its statement that this does not entail any change in the basic structure of the law or the purpose paragraph of the law. In that case, I must remind the Council of State that it is relatively rare for the State’s own professional body – in this case the Health Authority – in a consultation opinion to a draft law to actually point out that here it is at best a tension relationship with the purpose paragraph of the law and, in the worst case, a direct contradiction with the purpose paragraph of the law. It's relatively rare diet. I am not reminded in any other law that the state's own professional body has pointed this out, without having been taken into account in the further legal preparation process. The representative Holten Hemdal said that in terms of the most difficult of all the proposals, namely the opening of testing for tissue-type similarity, we have «very little knowledge» of the effect of this on the individual born in such circumstances. It's an understatement. The truth is, we have zero knowledge of this. It has even been replied to by the Council of State by letter to the Committee, that the Ministry knows nothing about this. There is no international report to that effect. There's no research on it. There is no documented knowledge. That is, this is a law reform that actually takes place in the empty space when it comes to knowledge. It is common in laws that do not deal with as fundamental issues as this, namely the understanding of what human life is, and what respect for human life is, that one uses the precautionary principle. It has become good Latin, at least in terms of nature, and in terms of non-human life, that leading the precautionary principle is a healthy principle. Then, in my opinion, it is dramatic that in such a difficult case as this one pushes the whole precautionary principle aside in favour of the tune and driving principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e286	There are a lot of things that we have to approach ourselves with a principal starting point, things that are bad for personal confessions, as we've heard part of in this case. I'll give praise to Inge's salary for a reflective, principled and informative post, as opposed to some others. I disagree with what Inge Wage says, especially about research on fertilized eggs. I disagree with his analysis and conclusion. We believe that the option is to destroy. That's what's the alternative. Either you do research on fertilized eggs, or you don't do research, it's about destroying in the last round. Then I find it difficult to understand that doing research on fertilised eggs should be wrong and can carry on wrong places. What I think has been difficult with this matter is what concerns preimplantation diagnostics. That's the hard part and the hard part. I have a great sense of Inge Wohnning's language when he talks about terms such as'sorting' and'selecting' in terms of the type of diagnostics in which you are looking for certain characteristics that you are going to get out and carry on. There it is perfectly legitimate to use terms such as ‘sorting’ and ‘selecting’. This is the theme that has created the most problems and that I think has been the most difficult. The proposal on the table is that Odelstinget be asked to table the bill. It's also a little problematic, because I have no ethical or principleal concerns about parts of the bill, while there are other parts that are very problematic. I will follow the case further and listen to the debate before I conclude with how I am going to vote in the last instance, because what is about preimplantation diagnostics is just going on my integrity, my basic understanding of what is right, and what is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e298	I think the matter has been presented in a good way from both sides. The reason why I chose to take the floor is that I want to say that when some representatives from this pulpit talk about their human vision and in that way – I believe – say that you do not agree with the introduction to the representative, that means that you may have a human vision that is at least dissatisfied with that person. Then I might try to be a little bit mild about how I express myself. For me, having a good view of human beings is being busy helping their fellow human beings, helping the family, and others who need help. Then, in fact, I think continuing to research to help these people is important. I think it's important to be able to help people who are sick, if there's technology and opportunities for it. I see, of course, the dilemmas that some people have had about how far you can go. But I feel that both the Council of State and others have made this very clear – that is also the basis for the treatment – that it should be done in a safe and proper way and that it should: be carried out within ethical standards and good official control. I am therefore not afraid that it will be the consequences of the law decision we are now making. I therefore do not want to go for the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Right. I'm not going to define what others think about having a good view of human beings, but for me, a good view of human beings is to be concerned about helping all people, because we're actually sitting in this assembly and we're going to make decisions that can help others. For me it was quite difficult to hear about Mehmet. I have registered that someone believes that here we have not managed to do anything, it might be. For me, it was at least the time we had the matter up, important and good to experience that you have the opportunity to help individuals and individuals by allowing technology that can either make sure that people in the future can get help for their disease, or actually make sure that you don't get a disease. That's what this is all about. That is why I think the majority proposal is a good one, and we are going to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e307	This is a debate that is full of dilemmas. When one sits here in the hall and listens to this debate today, on the one hand we get to hear about selection and sorting, about a very hard and brutal society. On the other hand, we are told that we must allow research that can help our fellow human beings. This is a matter that is not simple, if one takes one or the other position. As most people will be familiar with, this has been a difficult matter for the Center Party. It was said in Odelstinget when the matter was up there – I'm just going to go ahead today – that it is difficult for us, but we have sailed the countries along with the rest of the Government in this area. The program of the centre party is really clear, it says no to research on fertilised eggs and no to preimplantation diagnostics. Then it is obvious that most of us in the Central Party Group would have had a somewhat more restrictive law than the proposal that is currently in the Creation. This may also be the case in other cases and in other groups of parties, that there are different views and ethical considerations about which assessments one finally supports. The Government Declaration opens up research on surplus fertilised eggs and limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics. Furthermore, a legislative proposal will be in line with the Stortinge decision of 9 June 2005. When one takes into account the programme of the individual parties and previous decisions in the Stortinget, one will see that there is probably a majority for a more liberal law than the legislative proposal currently under consideration. – Now I see that the minister agrees with me. Therefore, limited use of PGD is very important, and therefore the concept of seriousness has been the subject of careful and in-depth discussions. Here the new bill differs from the law that applies and is practiced today. I would like to stress that a new name will be considered in the light of new rules. The proposal may, in specific cases, restrict the assessment theme of the denominator. The background to this is that the proposal provides for the legalisation of the concrete need to focus on relieving treatment, prevention or life-long treatment in specific cases. Such an assessment does not underlie the law in force today. The legislative proposal introduces liberalisation in an area by opening up research into surplus fertilised eggs. At the same time, the legislative proposal will be a narrowing in specific cases when examining applications for PGD and PGD/HLA, because the conditions for approval have changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e320	Most of the arguments in this debate have been excellently promoted by the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the majority that is here. I want to say a little bit about preimplantation technique, because it's a little taboo to talk about, and so not all arguments are heard. There are very few people who really know what this debate is about. For me, this is about the possibility of having children when you really can't have them. Because what happens when you can't have a child because of a genetic defect? Well, you get pregnant, you want to have a fetus that's not compatible with life, you go into pregnancy, four, five, six, seven months, and then you give birth artificially, that's when you give birth. Some believe that you should go out with the child who is incompatible with life. I certainly do not believe that. Then you are told that you have a diagnosis that is incompatible with having children, and you are told that you have a higher risk of spontaneous abortion. Such a couple would like to abort six, seven times before they – maybe – have a viable child. It's stressful for the couple you're dealing with, physically and mentally. Many give up and start an adoption process. Some people hope they have a child every time, they hope for the third month, and they hope for the fourth month. In addition to this process, we have the system of denominators which means that they must be interviewed before they have an abortion, with the burden of waiting to know if the child is viable or not. That's why I'm in favour of preimplantation techniques, because you can help medically parents who really can't have children to have their own children. I think we should use the medicine for the best for these parents. This is a taboo theme, and therefore no one is talking about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e329	I just want to respond a little bit to the representative, when he says we should approach this principle. Yes, I have approximated this in principle. I came to a principle position through personal experience. There are personal experiences – which I have had at heart – that have made me think that the majority in Odelstinget have done and that my party group has been in favour of is, in principle, correct. I hope to have respect for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e334	No wage has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e337	Two brief notes. Inger S. Enger referred to the representative's posts in the Odelstinget with a presumption that there may be a majority in the Stortinget for a more liberal law than the one contained in the proposal. It is a guess that, according to my concepts, has little in common. There is more that speaks for the opposite assumption, namely that due to party constellations and government cooperation, the knitting has been done much longer than it really is covered for by the staging representatives. Because of this cooperation, the centre party has been forced to oppose what they have programmed and on which all representatives of the centre party have been elected and committed to their electorate. Fortunately, this does not happen often. So a little note to Rolf Rikvam. I understand very well his dilemma when it comes to voting. Let me therefore state that when the proposal has the wording it has, it is because I have received very good technical assistance from the administration of Storting. It is this formula that is used when the Creation rarely sends a case back to Odelstinget. It means nothing but that Odelstinget has to re-examine the matter. As far as I understand, the position of Mr Requam is, in fact, the same as that of the Left, and the Left has indicated that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e346	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Let's go to voting. On behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the representative Inge Wohnning has put forward the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: ‘It is recommended that Odelsting should submit the proposal.’» The President has understood that the Left will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e368	The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e382	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The Act will be transmitted to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e398	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31-upper.ana.ud988e414	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
