ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e155	Document No The 8 proposal relates to the relationship between Norwegian foreign policy and trade policy and the customs exemptions provided to LDCs by both Norway, the EU and some other industrialised countries through the GSP, Generalised System of Preferences. A unanimous committee agrees that the GSP should be extended to cover several low-income countries that are not currently defined as MUL countries. It is important that Norway is the driving force behind a trading system that focuses on developing countries. Both subsidies on exports and the dumping of food hinder, for example, the possibilities of developing countries. Part of a longer-term strategy to give developing countries greater market access for their export products is to extend the system of duty-free access for MUL countries. Trade has, as we know, brought millions out of poverty and contributed to growth and development. I add that, for the poorest countries, it is nevertheless necessary through both assistance and other development policies – and within the WTO system – to contribute to their actual product sales. We need a strategy to formalise the informal sector that is very large in many MUL countries. We must, among other things: through Aid for Trade, contribute to ensuring infrastructure and production. Norwegian business can also contribute a great deal. We also discussed this in the development debate after the presentation to Erik Solheim on Friday. At the same time, we must ensure the right to own food production and that food aid and the large food chains do not dump food that destroys local agriculture. Therefore, there has to be a link between development policy and trade policy. I would like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party which has promoted the proposal to extend the GSP system and to see it precisely in the context of development policy. While the Committee has had this proposal for consideration, the Government has had an interdepartmental group working. The Group proposes to extend this scheme to 14 more low-income countries. The report has been consulted and is now in the government for treatment. The Committee agrees with the content of Document No. The 8 proposal, but due to the report presented, will await the consideration of the Government. Therefore, the II minutes of the vote are attached today. With this, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e170	As the rapporteur explained, it is a unanimous committee that supports this positive initiative. I would just like to make a few brief comments on the comments that the Right and Advance Party have made on the matter, where we point out the importance of what is now happening in the Doha Round, and which are current policies at the moment. As the Foreign Minister said in this Chamber a week ago, progress could be made in the Doha Round. Let's hope that, because there's something that will be crucial for the developing countries, is that you get something positive there. At the same time, I would like to say that Norway must – as we have so far – have a development policy dimension in our Doha negotiating mandate. But some of us are a little afraid that the defensive interests get too much leeway, and so we don't meet the developing countries the way we should ideally; Norway would like to extend further. I would like to say that, at least in the case of the Progress Party, the agricultural alliance with Switzerland is not what we see as the greatest handshake to the developing countries. The GSP scheme and progress are good. A positive result of the Doha Round will be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e179	The UN's Millennium Goals are ambitious, and we will be halfway through 2015. In the field of poverty, there is improvement in some countries that has been successful in finding greater international integration, not least through economic relations and trade. There are several good examples of this in the countries of South and East Asia. But the problem of poverty is nevertheless great, in two areas. It's in Latin America, where there's perhaps more of a distribution problem than a resource problem, and in sub-Saharan Africa. In particular, we focus on these countries in today’s proposals and on previous proposals – for example. in our own, Right, draft budget for this year, where we went even further. In the budget for this year, we did so on the basis of a lack of faith that the Doha Round, the development round, would bring this matter forward in the foreseeable future. We're still skeptical about that, even though it's still a little bit of an open time window in relation to the American negotiating mandate. Before Stortingen meets again for the harvest session, we will know more about that. We welcome the concrete proposals made by the Government parties at that time, in the light of the unanimous position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this matter for the first day, and, secondly, the current inter-ministerial report. And as I must say, we experience to some extent that it is now being used as a pretext that the Government does not want to go into the facts of the matter at this point in time. I will not take the opportunity to reiterate our view of the importance of trade as part of development policy. This is evident from the comments made by the case, not least from our comments and proposals for the 2007 budget. I just want to make it clear that the longer it draws off with the conclusion of the Doha Round, the more important it is to establish bilateral agreements in the meantime – important not least for the developing countries. In addition, attention should be paid to the ways in which aid can be used to strengthen the conditions of developing countries in order to effectively participate in and qualify for international trade and the world market requirements for logistics, infrastructure, documentation and quality standards. This is a field that covers everything from dumping of cheap goods from developing countries to developing through transport and compliance with technical, veterinary and health standards through local to regional and international markets. There's a lot to do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e188	I think it is very positive that the Committee has come to a unanimous position in this area, and there are several reasons for this. One thing – and it is an approach that has been used and has been part of the debate for a long time – is that we must give priority to the poorest countries. The question is, how can we give priority to the poorest countries? I think the approach adopted by the Committee is good, but at the same time I would like to take the opportunity to ask in particular the Right, and also the Advance Party, whether this marks a – to say the least – maturation of their position in relation to trade. In the past, we have had some representatives from the Young Right, both former leader Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and current leader Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, who have argued very hard for full liberalisation and full free trade to help the poorest countries. But what is underlying here, and on which we have found unanimity in the Committee, is a greater focus on giving market access to the poorest countries. If that is the case, I think it is very positive, and it may well be Vallersnes will take the opportunity to say something about it at a later stage in the debate. The second is the problem facing the poorest countries, namely what we conclude about the GSP review carried out by the sample, which I think is very exciting. It is that there is a good part of the poorest countries that do not comply with the strict bureaucratic rules that lie there, as the sample proposes to open up. It has also been pointed out among a good number of organisations that have worked with the poor countries, and shows that if you are first lopsided, it is absolutely necessary to have programmes such as Aid for Trade, on which the Government has an arrangement. In addition, programmes to look at bureaucracy are needed to ensure that the poorest countries are more caught up. Then it's agriculture, which is always one of the big issues of discussion. The question is who will benefit from full trade liberalisation. There is no doubt that the economies that are best rigged to export to Norway will be those that have the opportunity to exploit an opening in agricultural access. I think it is a lot more positive to target the instruments that are here, towards the poorest countries. In addition, I think it's necessary that we recognize that there has to be an asymmetry. Quite a number of people who are busy and who are themselves located in the poorest countries of Africa say that it is important not to assume whether Africa is able to fend for itself. Because it's clear that Africa has the opportunity to do that, and will also have the opportunity and the opportunity to do it just by the fact that there is an asymmetry in the trade that takes place. We are familiar with – it was also taken up by both Bill Clinton, when he was in Norway, and others – how countries that are really in a good position to feed themselves experience dumping of food from the EU and other countries, and thus the basis for building up their own market in this area is being destroyed. This is one of the things we need to address both in our overall trade policy and in the Doha Round. I see that, among other things, Left, and at the moment I don't remember whether the Christian People's Party is involved in it, using the position in revised to already move forward in this matter and open up trade access for several countries. I think that's a little special, all the time we're now saying that we have a process going on. But okay, then we get the discussion up one more time. From the government it is announced that they are working on it now, it has been out at the hearing, the hearing opinions have come in, and we think it is all right to take a real round on this before we move on. When 50 pst. Of the food we eat in Norway, imported, it goes without saying that the most important thing we can do to improve the opportunities for developing and poor countries to increase exports to Norway is to make sure that a greater proportion of the imports we already have of food are transferred to the poorest countries. It is this work that I believe we have now taken a step further, and that I look forward to seeing if we can complete it during the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e205	When the Christian People's Party promoted this Document No. The 8 proposal, we had the goal of achieving something that could create majority and practical results. The current government, represented by the Minister for Development, announced in the Stortinget that a full review of the GSP scheme would be carried out, with a view to proposing changes to the 2007 budget. But that didn't happen. That's why in the Christian People's Party we decided to make our own proposal to get ahead of work. The last time we had better market access for the poor developing countries was under the second government of Bondevik, in 2002. From 1 July of that year, full duty-free and quota-free market access was introduced for all legal products from the least developed countries, the so-called MUL countries. Proposals have been made later, without having received a majority vote. We therefore thought carefully through the design of our proposal this time. We do not want to propose measures that could upset Norwegian agriculture. Nor will we prejudge the heavy ceilings that Norway is likely to face as a result of WTO negotiations. On the other hand, we see a room for action, because there are still a number of trade barriers to developing countries, without actually posing a significant problem for Norwegian industries if we improved market access for some low-income countries beyond the group of the poorest countries. That's what we've been trying to do this time. We therefore made two suggestions. First of all: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review customs tariffs and the GSP mechanism and to assess how the relationship between Norwegian development policy and trade policy can be strengthened in this area and to inform the Storting accordingly in an appropriate manner.’ And secondly, ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a duty-free or lower rate of duty to several developing countries, in particular the countries of the MUL-middle income group, in the 2008 tax, tax and customs proposal.’ We are very pleased that all the parties on the Stortinget have endorsed the Christian People's Party's proposal to improve trade conditions for imports of goods from developing countries into Norway, and especially imports of goods from poor countries which have not already been fully exempted. Today, the Stortinge will adopt the first proposal and the content of the second proposal has been supported by all parties in the unanimous comments of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Committee asks the Government to propose customs reductions or exemptions to these countries in the vote. This is gratifying, and it will help to strengthen the coherence between Norwegian development policy and Norwegian trade policy. There is now a report from an inter-ministerial sample of possible measures to improve market access from developing countries to Norway, on which the report has been useful in the review of the case. The inter-ministerial working group has made several concrete proposals to improve the conditions for imports of non-resident goods into Norway. It is proposed to grant full exemption to 14 new developing countries with low national incomes and to reduce other customs duties on goods from other developing countries by 20 percentage points. Without going into all the details of these proposals, I would generally say that these are very good proposals. It would be natural for the Government to follow them up, as a follow-up to this proposal under consideration today. It is a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs which, in its comments, agrees with the content of our proposal II in Document No. 8:38. I therefore expect the Government to propose a full exemption or lower tariff rate of duty to several developing countries, as the countries between the MUL group and the middle-income country, in particular, are already in the harvest. in the 2008 tax, tax and customs proposal. There is no need to wait. This should be done at the first natural crossroads. In my opinion, it is when we have the annual tax and tax decisions and the customs tariff decisions. For our part, we wanted to move forward faster. In the revised national budget, we have added 1 million. to grant full exemption from customs duties for all products from 14 new low-income countries, for which the inter-ministerial working group has proposed a full exemption from customs duties. This means, therefore, that we are already proposing in the revised national budget to follow up the working group’s recommendation with regard to the 14 countries mentioned, and that customs exemptions for the four major countries are assessed in the budget table for 2008. Document No The 8-proposal Stortinget now deals with, from our side, is part of the follow-up to the Christian People's Party's programme for the current ageing period, where this is explicitly mentioned. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to create better coherence in Norway's overall policy towards developing countries. What we do through development aid, through debt-reduction measures and through trade policy affects the development potential of poor countries. Our proposal for better market access for several developing countries is part of the strategy to create a more comprehensive Norwegian development policy. Finally, let me also stress that increased customs freedom should not be used as a poor excuse for raging or weakening Norwegian assistance. Freedom of customs shall not replace assistance. Freedom of customs is another instrument designed to contribute to the same overall objective. In a comprehensive development policy, Norwegian consumers do not have cheaper goods that are the main objective, are better economics and safer nutrient sources for producers in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e243	First, I will join in the intentions of the Christian People's Party with this Document No. The 8th proposal and the comments made by the Committee and the majority of the Committee. There is room in Norway for both increasing trade with poor developing countries and increasing quotas for some of these countries. The government has been working on this over and over again. Already in the Soria-Moria Declaration, the Centre Party and our government colleagues confirmed that the Government is to ‘increase import quotas for poor countries, including non-MUL countries’, as well as ‘targeted assistance to enable MUL countries to exploit their trade preferences’. The Centre Party has previously called for the strengthening of less developed countries’ market access and notes that there is little conflict between LDCs and other weaker developing countries in terms of production, export interests and opportunities, and Norwegian import protection needs. This was confirmed by John Mutunga, the head of the Kenyan peasant movement, KENFAP, at the conference ‘Can Africa feed itself?’ last week. The Kenyan farmers want to sell to Norway is not in conflict with what Norway wants to produce for its own consumption, he said. He underlined the right to produce food for domestic use, but not to dump subsidised goods on the world market and local markets. It's a fact that of 50 pst. of the agricultural imports held by Norway, 70 pst. from the EU. Much of this might as well come from developing countries. The centre party has therefore called for Norway to challenge the EU to introduce new quotas through, among other things. The Article 19 negotiations of the EEA Agreement, calculated for mutual market access, shall benefit developing countries. Even today, there are increasingly better preferences for the EU than for developing countries. Developing countries are increasingly finding it difficult to compete with an EU with high levels of overproduction and solid subsidies supporting dumping on the world market. What do I want to say about this? My point is that increased market access in the form of general tariff reductions will not help the poorest to access the market to Norway or anywhere else. It has shown the zero of the MUL with all clarity. Market access measures must first be implemented through targeted actions, combined with support for increased production and compliance with health and environmental requirements. General tolerations tend to be used only by countries with market power, the EU, the United States and to some extent Brazil and Argentina. That is why we need to use the GSP scheme, as proposed. However, the Centre Party believes that it should exploit the flexibility of the GSP scheme to carry out targeted actions, combined with development assistance and assistance to develop new systems to strengthen national and local producers. In the treatment of the 2007 State Budget, there was an overall Foreign Affairs Committee that pointed to the many studies that confirm that Africa has a problem with production capacity, both for its own market and for the opportunities for trade that had to be opened up. The Committee also notes that several studies show that investment in Africa is largely directed towards raw material extraction. Therefore, the Committee asked that the Government of the new overall African policy focus on nutrition strategies for Africa. The Committee considers the different regional cooperative structures in Africa to be more relevant in such a strategy than if the countries adopted the strategy belong to the Least Developed Group. This is important knowledge. We cannot expect to achieve the desired development effect by implementing a general liberalisation based on gross domestic product or other monetary criteria. The central party will claim that we have to take care of the regional constellations, for example. in Africa, Latin America, the Caribbean and Asia. We must contribute to strengthening production capacity and to protecting these countries' own markets and regional markets. For example, Kenya has had a solid growth in recent years, but this has 80 pst. Export growth has gone to neighbouring countries in the COMESA region - southern and eastern Africa. Kenya is the only low-income country in the East African community, together with three MUL countries: Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania. It is such regional structures that we can strengthen by targeting measures. This message came back from the African Union Foreign Minister's meeting in Durban in May: regional cooperation structures must be the building blocks of Africa's integration into the global economy. UNCTAD has just launched a report expressing concern that North-South trade agreements disrupt regional integration and South-South trade agreements. It says that it is regional cooperation that can form the basis for better development in the south. Benjamin Mkapa, former President of Tanzania, says something of the same in his assessment of the UNCTAD report on behalf of the South Centre in Geneva, which he leads. In setting up Document No, the Committee: The 8-proposal asked the Government to come back to Stortinget with a more concrete proposal on how this can be done. The government itself has done a job, and the report had a deadline for consultation on 6 June. The centre party notes that in its opinion, the Land team is also in favour of measures to strengthen developing countries’ imports into Norway and the use of the GSP scheme for this purpose. The rural community also shows that effectiveness will be better with targeted measures. At the same time, an assessment of the impact in Norway of the proposed measures is requested. The centre party agrees with this. We need to implement this responsibly and not reduce the impact of existing preferences on neither the MUL countries nor the other countries we want to help. The report on market access for developing countries, which has been consulted by the Government, also proposes MUL status for 14 countries with low GDP, and a general reduction in customs duties for other developing countries. The last thing I think is to undermine all of the preferences we give the weakest. The centre party hopes that we can achieve targeted measures that work, rather than general liberalisation and customs reduction, which can be most useful. This is why we look forward to the Government returning to the Stortinget with proposals for such targeted market access measures, combined with support for production capacity, the organisation of market systems, employment and regional development for the MUL countries and other low-income countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e271	Thanks to the proposers for putting an important theme on the agenda, namely trade and developing countries. The left points to three different types of action in its development policy: promoting trade, stimulating business development and providing assistance. It is an important measure for us to promote trade, including better and fairer trading framework conditions. In addition, we want to help developing countries reach our markets with their products. In terms of industrial development in the south, we focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, the Left will still have a high level of assistance, which we contributed to under the Bondevik II government. Increased trade is an important prerequisite for promoting development. In view of this, we agree on the need to clean up the general customs preference system, the GSP system, in order to strengthen the coherence between development and trade policies. We therefore fully support the proposals in this Document No. The 8th proposal. I would like to mention here that, in the context of the revised budget, we propose that several poor countries should be given customs freedom to Norway. Export-driven economies in Asia are shining examples of how trade can promote development. At the same time, I would like to remind you that improved market access to Norway is not a magic formula that will speed up development in poor developing countries. Imports from LDCs represented only 0,2 pst. of Norway’s total imports in 2005. The trend for most developing countries has been negative in recent years, despite the GSP scheme. This applies both as a proportion of total Norwegian imports and measured in nominal value in kronor. In the case of agricultural products, the least developed countries have duty-free and quota-free market access to Norway. This represents a significant competitive advantage over other countries and vis-à-vis Norwegian producers. Equally full, imports of agricultural products from LDCs are negligible and show almost no signs of growth. Among the few positive features in the case of imports of u-lands are clothing imports from Bangladesh and flowers imports from Tanzania. This shows that free market access is not enough to promote exports from developing countries to Norway. I want to point out three reasons here. One is that Norway is a highly developed and crested market far away. Exportation to such a market requires a large apparatus, including a well-functioning logistics and an efficient sales link. Few developing countries have access to this. The second reason is the lack of knowledge. Developing countries need more knowledge and capacity to comply with the rules in Norway and other countries regarding technical product standards regulating trade in food, animals and plants. The third reason is that many countries do not have as good market access for industrial products to Norway as the poorest developing countries. Through the EEA Agreement, the EFTA Agreement and the EFTA trade agreements, EU countries and a number of other countries have free access to customs. The GSP scheme can only help to ensure that developing countries do not have any worse conditions than many countries. In addition to the removal of residual customs duties on clothing and other textile products, the GSP scheme will be of limited importance in order to increase imports of industrial products from developing countries. In order to increase imports from developing countries to Norway, instruments other than zero duty and the absence of import quotas are also required. Key keywords here are investment, technology transfer and trade-oriented development cooperation. In fact, I think the latter could be an area where it is desirable to think about how to put in place a larger flow of goods from poor developing countries to Norway. It's e.g. experience in organic farming in establishing so-called ‘whole-chain’ agreements, where state funds contribute to the creation of goods flows in some areas. It's an idea that could be transferred to other product groups. I think the key is to put in place some commodity streams that count something, and then the trade could generate new trade. Such instruments will be targeted at increasing exports specifically to Norway. However, they should also be designed to contribute to a general increase in the exports of developing countries to other countries where they have to find markets. For many poor countries, there may be greater export opportunities in more developed developing countries, such as the United States and Japan. South Africa and India, as in Norway. For many poor countries it can simply be most realistic to further develop trade with their neighbourhoods. The left is standing fully behind a cleanup within our GSP scheme. At the same time, we recognise that this will have little to say for our total imports from developing countries. Of much greater importance in this way is the Doha Round. It is now approaching the moment of truth. I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs said from this pulpit on Monday 4 June that agreement on the outcome of the Doha Round could come ‘very quickly if there is now acceleration towards the end of this month’. We look forward to this with excitement, assuming that the government is doing what it can to contribute to a positive result. The Doha Round would be the round of developing countries. It would lead to quantum leaps towards a more equitable and developmental international trade. If it turns out that it is not possible to save the Doha round before the time runs out, this will mean a huge setback in using trade to promote development. Finally, I would like to mention that a breakdown in the Doha Round is likely to result in an even stronger commitment to regional and bilateral trade agreements. Norway is actively participating in this process through the conclusion of a number of such agreements through EFTA. It is primarily the rich countries that serve on such agreements, while the poorest are placed on the sideline. They will not have the resources and competences to participate in the further liberalisation of world trade. I therefore hope for the longest time that the Doha Round will come to an end, and that the interests of developing countries will not be forgotten. If not, the multilateral free trade system will be weakened, which may make it more difficult to use trade as a means of promoting development in poor countries. Whatever the outcome of the Doha Round, Norway should actively contribute to the further development and strengthening of the WTO. The system must be reformed, opened and democratised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e311	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that this meeting continue until the consideration of case No. 1 is over. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e316	I'm not going to pull out the time unnecessarily. I want to join in what has been said about the big picture about the Doha round. The key issue is to establish a new global trade agreement, and Norway will contribute to it. We have to be mentally and politically prepared that it can happen quickly, even though it is now toward the end of this month pointed and quite steep fronts. I have two brief comments. There are two proposals in this document. The 8th proposal. The working group that I have reduced has submitted its report. It has been sent to the Committee as a kind of background information. The Committee's position is, of course, a sort of consultation opinion. However, there have been a number of other hearing opinions, as mentioned here, with a deadline of 6 June. We are now going through them, and we will then deal with the matter as soon as possible during the summer. Then we want to look at the relationship between development policy and trade policy, and the Minister for Development has set up a selection to look at the so-called coherence, or coherence, of Norwegian policies in different areas in relation to developing countries. With regard to the issue of full exemption or lower tariff rates for several developing countries, the present report recommended that the duty-free and quota-free regime be extended to 14 low-income countries, in addition to the 50 MUL countries to which the scheme applies today. There has been a number of positive views on this in the hearing, but there have also been negative reactions. We have to evaluate this, and that's what we could expect. We will make a thorough assessment of the arguments presented in the report and in the hearing opinions and come back to the Storting with the Government's conclusions. Finally, I would just like to say, as some speakers have pointed out, that this is not about either trade or assistance, but about both, so that the measures we are taking here should be accompanied by a Norwegian strategy for so-called Aid for Trade, and I hope that perhaps in the discussion about this we can come back and see the two dimensions in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e329	I thought I would start by being a little personal and say, "I believe in free trade." In fact, I believe that if I had a purpose paragraph myself, free trade would have been one of the elements I had withdrawn. I strongly believe that free trade and trade work. Free trade brings people out of poverty. It creates jobs. This leads to a general development of wealth. This leads to greater freedom of choice, and as a side-effect of it – if not important – it also creates cheaper goods. But it is free trade combined with – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said – targeted assistance that works best to get people out of poverty. We see that, on the one hand, we are at the top of the world in terms of aid, but on the other hand, almost in a hypocritical way, hiding behind all the world's regulations in terms of trade, quotas, customs, etc. That was why, in its 2007 alternative budget, the Right wanted to extend the duty-free and quota-free regime for the so-called MUL countries to an additional 50 countries. There would have been a significant contribution to increasing trade into Norway. But I ask a few questions about extending the system, and also about those within the system, for several of the countries that are in the present system, and that will be within the system that the Christian People's Party also proposes, are among the world's dictatorships. It is not easy to open up and virtually introduce countries such as North Korea and Zimbabwe with trade opportunities to Norway. It has to be problematic. Obviously, countries to which we open up market access will have a stronger chance of becoming winners in the future. But when I now return to the assistance, it is to say that Norwegian targeted assistance must also help to open up trade to Norway. It can be made as simple as making the MUL system better known. This is a little-known scheme among those countries that are able to export today. It's about helping to reach, for example: veterinary considerations required by Norway, which are both cost-effective and problematic to satisfy. And it is not least that Norwegian assistance needs to be much stronger in building infrastructure in the countries where we are involved, so that the goods you produce can reach a market. Let me say that it is quite natural that we focus first, especially among the poorest countries, on agricultural products. Historically, we know that a country almost runs on stairs. One goes from being an agricultural producing country to getting fertilizers, to being able to produce to beyond its own population, to being able to sell this on to neighboring countries and to others, to moving on to textile goods and shoes, to machines, and then to slightly more advanced hardware, to technology, and finally, it's services. We recognize this from countries in Southeast Asia, and we can look at Norway as another example. We find this ascent pretty much everywhere we look at wealth development. Then I have to mention Samuelsen's posts so far, because the representative takes up the importance of developing countries having the opportunity to protect themselves. There's a shot in the foot. The main problem facing developing countries today is that the majority of their trade is not taking place in the region of which they are part. There is far too little trade in general. If you do as Samuelsen's representative says, and help build up customs barriers between countries, which are neighbouring countries, it will only mean that you extend the distance to the market and will sell less. And when country A and country B have different goods that are produced, there will still be far too little trade and thus too little of people who create jobs and get out of poverty. When we talk about trade and free trade, I feel that we need to also take a little step out of the MUL countries. I have chosen to link a few comments to China. We all know the ‘made in China’ label and know that it is becoming increasingly widespread, that the world is no longer just toys, textiles and shoes from China, but increasingly electronics, car parts and computers. Going back and looking at 1978, it was the year of the major reform process for Deng Xiaoping, which thought that opening to the outside, or "duiwai kaifang", was a government governance of ownership that had been declared more strongly and lessened, in return for increased freedom. From 1950 to 1975, China's GDP was per year. is stable at about one fifth of the world average. Now the number is 85 pst. The annual growth rate has been between 8 and 10 pst. in the last years, or over a long time. Although China's share of world trade in goods exports is about 10 p.m., a sharp increase is to be expected. China's population counts as known 20 pst. Therefore, there will be a large reserve of labour in the country that will contribute to continued growth in both production and exports. China's huge exports are seen by many as a threat. In 2006, China had a trade surplus with the United States of America of 230 billion dollars. This is by no means a threat. China's increased trade with the outside world integrates the country into the world they were so long isolated from. It brings hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, and Norwegian and American consumers get – as a side-effect – cheaper goods. In addition, China is now importing more and more goods, and China itself is experiencing a trade deficit from an increasing number of countries, including China. part of Africa. Free trade creates winners, and that's the winning team under which we have to build.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e356	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e359	I just felt a little need to arrest Peter Skovholt Gitmark, because I felt I gave him a challenge just in relation to what is Right Policy. I perceive that Peter Skovholt Gitmark, at least initially, says that full free trade is a goal between everyone. But I see that he is pushing that goal quite far ahead in time as it is now, and now one has set itself in line with the gradual phase-in of the different countries. I just want to point out that there is a big difference between what was said now, and what Peter Skovholt Gitmark was in the financial position last year. It states that the intention is to extend the existing Norwegian duty exemption to ‘include almost 90 additional low-income and middle-income developing countries during 2007’. It is really all those on this list that I have here that you want to have zero customs duties. There's something quite different than what it's added up from the sample, that's right here. Is it so that before we start this debate, the Right has concluded that they want zero exemption for all, from the poorest countries to Brazil, there is a clear indication for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e370	Let me start my answer now that I started my post instead of saying that ‘I believe in free trade’. So does the right. We know that free trade actually works. We really hope that the WTO process we are looking forward to will lead to an increase in free trade. When we entered the 2007 budget that beyond 90 countries would be included in the Norwegian system of tariff and quota exemptions, it was not just a desire to make Norwegian consumers winners, but it was also because we wanted to bring people out of poverty. It is part of increasing free trade and opening up Norway. We start with Norway first. I find it problematic that today's government is unfortunately beginning with some agricultural interests, cf. Samuelsen's articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e377	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e380	It is good that there is a great deal to be done on such a good proposal. I have a few points of appeal. Should we do something that doesn't work well enough – should we do more of it before we make it work? It has been shown that the MUL system has not worked. It is far from Matagalpa in Nicaragua to a shop at Karl Johan – just as it is far ‘from Namsos to tea Royal Albert Hall’. We're talking about nation-building, and we're talking about 'empower' countries to be able to participate in a trade. I'm positive that we can now try it out, because maybe the solution is in the countries that are a little further up in terms of being able to act. I'm very positive that we're now expanding to those midranges to see if we can make experience there. But we also have to go down and figure out why it doesn't work for the MUL countries. If not, it only works as a yield. We can say: we have free trade, we have said we welcome – without enabling people to come. It's not the market forces that can fix it -- there we have to be with and facilitating. It's been done by the Church with commercialism. Together with ICA, they have, 300 meters away from where I live in Molde, opening a store that is a link directly between me and the poor farmer in Africa. We want more of it, more of positive action from business and from the farmers themselves. We know that Norwegian cooperative organisations are also in here. I think a lot is going to happen in this area. Now when the government comes up with new proposals, I think we're on the right track. Experience will be the most important. We must get meat on this trading leg without going into or against the free trade debate too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-12.ana.ud1288e391	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The size will then take a break until noon. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3548]]
