ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e30	It has been raised beyond any doubt that today's government rates far more than any bourgeois government has power, in the transport sector. Everyone involved in the debate today is, of course, aware of that, but the opposition must take care of its role. National transport plan is followed up, the economy is kept under control and the maintenance budgets are increased. We have every reason to be proud of what we are now doing in the transport sector. All government parties have a good case when they are going out to talk about the bet that this government has made within this area. The bourgeois parties failed in the previous magnification period, but we are now showing results. Citizens were unable to follow up their national transport plan. Let's do that. Where the Right Party and the Advance Party today use large words and paper money, the Government and Government Parties use plant machines and dynamite. It's going to be way off. It leads to better roads, it leads to better railways, it leads to increased road safety, it becomes more bicycle paths, and all in all, we get a more modern society. The Progress Party and the Right will establish a Road Fund, where returns will be phased into the economy. The right-hand fund will, if one takes 5 pst. return, leading to a budget of NOK 1 billion in 2009. The funding of the Progress Party, which is DKK 300 billion, would lead to a total of DKK 15 billion – but nothing in the budget for 2008. It's a strange and a little unfair way to pursue opposition policy. The only logical explanation is that the Right Party and the Advance Party are unable to take the invasion and leave it to us who have government power. I think that is politically weak work. They might have been taken more seriously and seriously if the parties themselves had shown some willingness to real priorities. In any case, the Right should show some of the responsibility for which they are known. But we've recorded that the Right has decided that they're no longer going to be a calculator batch. I don't think they'll be able to beat the Advance Party in populism. With regard to the overall budget of the Progress Party, much can be said. In this context, I will not spend time on the Advance Party Fund, but on the 2008 budget. The lot shall establish something they call a foreign budget, for road construction in Norway. Does this mean that Norwegian entrepreneurs and workers are to be excluded from competing for these projects? Should the foreign labour force be interned to avoid pressure in the Norwegian economy? Should machines, food and clothing be flown into these labor camps to the Advance Party? Should Norwegian roads be planned abroad? Perhaps what's most interesting is: Should the purchase of land happen abroad? And are they going to have a currency that can only be used abroad to release pressure in the Norwegian economy? We know that's not how the budget and the budgetary context work. Today, we see that the construction sector has an unnatural growth in costs. In prison, they have increased by 25.2 pst. Hardangerbrua has had to be postponed because the cost of routes of administration has increased by 38,4 pst. New Nidelv Bru in Trondheim has increased costs by 44.3 p.m. – and this one can go on. Nevertheless, some people believe that the only solution is to inject more money. We in the government do not believe that, and of course we support the budget that we hope will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e47	Climate problems are the greatest challenge of our time. I believe that almost all members of the Storting will take over. Nevertheless, I would agree with Mr Langeland's representative that the debate has not been debated on a monthly basis, although some representatives have been involved. But also in the ICT sector, of course, what we are going to do in 2008, is important in order to reduce climate change – not because this sector alone is the big one in climate change, but if we focus on and use new technologies in our forms of work, we are reducing, for example. the number of flight journeys and thus air-conditioning emissions. If we get the manufacturers to produce a little bit less software in these machines, we get a later replacement rate of laptops or desktop computers. Producing one PC produces an emission of half a tonne of CO2. It is clear that we are getting the industry to think about the environment – and the industry is thinking about the environment – we can also take great steps in the field of ICT. It is important for the Transport and Communication Committee to consider ICT and new forms of work in climbing. And now, in the light of Bali, in the light of the negotiations in Stortinget, I hope that dimension is included. I am pleased that a broad majority in the Committee supports our proposals for activities related to the next year's IT policy. Everyone, except the Progress Party, believes that it is important that priority actions in the Single European Act are followed up. And it would only be missing, when, after all, we put forward a big message that gets broad support, that there is no broad upshot about the follow-up. There's a couple of points I'd like to comment on. ‘The members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left point out that the government parties are trying to present what would have been achieved with full broadband coverage by the end of 2007. It's grossly misleading. To the extent that the coverage has been improved since the autumn of 2005, this is mainly due to municipal and county appropriations.» This is in a comment. But it's like the government in 2006 and 2007 has paid almost half a billion dollars to broadband. Nevertheless, it only claims that it has not affected broadband expansion, when it is precisely the state effort that is the basis for challenging municipal and county authorities to be part of the split layer, together with private ones, of course, to expand. It's the state effort of half a billion dollars that has challenged the municipalities and county councils to join in. There is certainly someone who would still have spent money on broadband, but there is no doubt that one of a government crown on average has got two corresponding ones out of municipalities and county municipalities. It is clear that our efforts in relation to broadband have had major consequences. But, as I have said all the way: without the market having built out 95 pst., we had not come that far. The estimates we get from the Teleplan report tell us that once we've spent this money, once we've spent half a billion dollars, it's about 99 pst. which has a fixed access. In addition, we have the mobile technologies to release. Then we're as far into the goal as it's possible to get. I also record that no one in Stortinget will allow more money for broadband than the Government next year – in view of the fact that the Progress Party does the same thing as us. I'm using 20 million. kr from the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, I see the Progress Party to the same extent, and so it is 30 million. kr to broadband. It must mean that the Storting agrees with the Government that with the promises we have had, we will achieve the goal – a goal that has also been mentioned by the Storing and, to a large extent, joined in the processing of broadband messages from 2004. Then, of course, we're going to keep our focus on broadband and other developments. I also see that an annotate the closure of HØYKOM. But now that we've created a new directorate for management and ICT, one has to ask yourself if one should continue with everything a driver does, or instead collect the forces in the new directorate. And that's what we've chosen to do. We will take with us all the good experience of a successful project – let me underline it. HIGHNESS has been a success for nine years. Now is the last programme period out. We're going to complete broadband development, and we're going to take the good experience into the municipal programme, and into the cooperation that the new directorate will have with municipalities and county councils, and not least with private actors in the further work on broadband. And then maybe it's more than expansion that's the challenge, but that's what we're going to come back to Stortinget on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e72	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e75	First of all, it could be a good idea to clarify how the Minister of Renewal can get the Progress Party to grant the same thing, we'll put it all in 20 million. kr, and does not cut into the budget of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration in the field of broadband. I have also registered that several times in 2007 the Council of State has sent out press releases in which she promises full broadband coverage during 2007. But now it is 2008 that is the new deadline to deliver broadband to everyone. Then it is quite interesting to hear if the Council of State will now guarantee that anyone who wants it will have broadband access during 2008. Several municipalities say that they now have problems finding funds for the municipal section, because they are competing for scarce resources with other municipal services, such as kindergarten development, school content, better school construction, more sick homes, etc. The municipalities are therefore unable to put in place the municipal component, because the resources must be used for other areas for which this government expects them to be used. Will the Council of State now guarantee that citizens of these municipalities will also be guaranteed full broadband coverage in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e84	As far as we have experience, the Progress Party and the Government ran the exact same thing to broadband. Ten million. kr has been raised in the State budget. And then I also have notice that I'm going to spend 20 million on my own budget, which is on the municipal committee. kr. It's not a cut, but it's a priority of the 1500 chapter, which I have full access to. I'm just recording that the Progress Party is doing the same thing. The permissions are 20 million. kr in its alternative budget. It's going to be $30 million. kr, and that's exactly what the Government has. Then I'm going to think that even the Progress Party has been thinking about one when the goal that the Government has seen is just full broadband coverage for all households. We've said that we're now seeing that we're going into 2008, mainly because the broadband developers themselves say they're not going to spend all the money. They can't finish the project until Christmas. I am absolutely sure that those who are waiting for broadband are happy that one is digging and laying, and that one is getting broadband. But I can't control it. The market is just as tough when it comes to broadband expansion, like he's on the road and rail, that we've heard about before today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e91	The director of Abelia, Paul Chaffey, who is certainly known to the Council of State, went out on November 26th and said the following: ‘In the areas where Norway has succeeded in the field of ICT and innovation, the State has not been involved and in the areas where the State has a special responsibility it has so far done very little.’ This is what Paul Chaffey says. Among other things, he points. that there is a major cut in ICT research in the 2008 state budget. One of the areas where the state wants to take responsibility is to make sure that we get a secure electronic ID. Bank ID is what most people know and use in Norway today, and which many have seen as a possible national common identity solution or electronic signature. But the Post and Telecommunications Authority and the Data Protection Agency have thus gone completely unclear because some researchers have hacked into the system. Who supports the Council of State in this dispute – Data Protection or Post and Telecommunications?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e103	For the debate with Chaffey, I just want to say that I have also noticed that I have received support from, among other things. Computerworld, for the contrary, so I think there's a lot of difference of opinion about whether the state council and the government have delivered in the IT field or not. To put it this way: it's probably not used to Greece, but it's not like we're not playing along with both the market and the players in IT policy. We're totally dependent on that. To enter the eID, there is also one of the issues addressed in the Government's eID strategy. If we're going to take advantage of the market and the market solutions that exist, are we going to make our own public ID, or are we going to do both? That decision is not signed, but whatever we do, it's what the representative of Greece is in, deciding that people can trust the electronic ID that is being chosen. I'm just recording that someone here has discovered something that seems to be a hole or a weakness. It can probably be discussed. I know that the different supervisors are going to go through this. They shall meet the banks individually and shall have a coordinated meeting with the banks to record them. But it's quite obvious that we need to find out if there's a hole in security, because that's the only way to be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e110	So far, we've seen little renewal since this government joined us. Bondevik II renewed road sector by separating Mesta, a renewal that saves public sector for 850 million. kr per. years, and that means more money to go. We were at full speed to do this also within the railway. Unfortunately, this was stopped. When it can be demonstrated that a new organisation in the public sector is undisputed an advantage in terms of profitability, why will this Minister of Renewal not make a renewal in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e115	Renewal we run every day, but the Soria Moria statement makes it very clear that we are renewing in a completely different way from the previous government – and it should just be missing. We stand politically and ideologically very far from each other in the view of how one renews the public sector. When it comes to the separation, the privatisation and the AS-certification that the previous government is running with, I think there are different answers to how successful it is. More money for road and maintenance has not exactly shaped the debate before today. Instead, was it a quote from Hellbillies’ Six Thousand Hål – was it from Ål to Hönefoss? I don't think it's the impression of road maintenance that's stuck when you've traveled around Norway. This government has never said that we are going to operate with the separation of important services. On the contrary. When one is going to deal with such large resources as road maintenance, road investment and rail investment, public budgets are going to take care of, it would only be lacking if we did not have political and state governance with these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e120	As far as I've registered, we haven't done the cuts. I assume that we agree that the Council of State in the State budget indicates that she has actually planned to spend 20 million. kr on broadband from your own frame. We haven't been against it, so we think it keeps us adding 20 million. Extra kroner. But it doesn't matter that much. In fact, the most important thing is that people get broadband in 2008. Now I record that the Council of State says that people will get it quite early in 2008, but based on the figures we've obtained from several municipalities and counties, you won't be able to meet full broadband coverage during 2008. Does the Council of State think that 640 kB is a good broadband subsidy? I know that a state like Telemark, for example, needs another 10 million. kr in order to be able to provide all real broadband of at least 2 MB.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e128	To put it this way: I don't cut. My priorities are within my budget. It's not about cut. I have a frame that I use from one year to another well for different actions. I've said that next year I'm going to use it on broadband. That means we have 30 million. kr for broadband, and the Progress Party has 30 million. kr to broadband, without any cut space. I think we're just going to be a few that we have the same level of ambition. We see that one needs to spend more time building broadband. What we've also said to the committee is that we're now ordering a new analysis to see how broadband coverage is when you've used all the money. That's of course because I've seen a pot, so we have something in the back if one hasn't reached the goal. We also see, especially when it comes to mobile technology, that there is a great expansion in the fall. Of course, she happens mainly in big cities, but let me just remind you that Oslo is perhaps the city with most households without broadband, including. due to capacity problems on Telenor’s lines. So building cell phone technology is part of reaching these white spots that both the representative Hoksrud and I are busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e135	Back to my previous question and the answer that I got. I interpreted it this way that the Council of State thought it was wrong to separate Mesta. Does that mean that this government is going to reverse it? If it's so ideologically wrong, does it have to mean that you're going to do something about it? Can she confirm that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e140	I didn't necessarily say it was wrong. I said it's not this government's policy to conduct that kind of separation. That doesn't mean that we're going to reverse everything that's happened in the state sector in the last ten years, where there's been a great deal of freedom, delegation, AS-certification and privatisation and, as a result, we've got a fragmented state and, in particular, a fragmented state administration. This was also part of the comment by the representative Borghild Tenden when we dealt with the news of growth in our year, when she asked the FAD to take on greater coordination and coordination responsibilities in the field of ICT policy. When there is a challenge in ICT policy, I believe one of the Left too can see that this is a challenge in other sectors. What I did was the claim that one has saved 850 million. kr, one will see well on the road maintenance. That's what I put the question mark on. I'm not sure that all the inhabitants of this country will be a few in that it was so tricked by the right government to grab it, then spend the money on road maintenance and decorating it. That's not what people see again when they run around on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e147	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e150	The new growth rate after the 2005 election and the new government that joined it have focused more on transport than has ever been done. It's also going to be done next year. If there is something that has made little sense in the debate today, it is that speakers from the three previous government parties are calling for more money for transport purposes. Obviously, even more money could have been spent on transportation for next year. But one could at least have gone two years back and seen what a sail did when one sat in the government premises. Railways play a crucial role in transport in the East – a crucial part. When we discuss the railway, I often have the impression that many people don't fully understand the seriousness and meaning of the railway. It seems like the railroad's something nice that creeps around in lovely valleys, and that we use when we're going on a Christmas vacation to mother-in-law or going to send the kids on a summer vacation to grandmother. But for tens of thousands of people in the East, rail and train traffic are bloody serious, because one simply depends on the train to get to and from work. Here people don't use the train twice a year, on Christmas holidays and summer holidays. No, here people use the train twice a day, every single day of the day throughout the year. As a small mention: after the fatal fire at Oslo S for approx. a week ago, the railway was standing still in large parts of the East. That day there were more people in the central eastern region who did not get to work than there are total residents in the Finnmark counties. It says something about the dimensions and the importance of rail traffic in Eastern Europe. We have to bet on the railroad on the east, where people can use trains to work every day, where people can commute by train. That's where the railway has its advantage, and that's where in these climates we can take large volumes of transport and make sure that car traffic goes down, and that several are driving trains. Therefore, it must be invested on the railway in the intercity triangle Lillehammer-Skien-Halden. The appropriations are increasing for transport purposes, but unfortunately they also cost new railway projects. Therefore, there is no money in the budget for the conversion of Ski Station in 2008. And I don't hesitate to say, that's very regrettable. Eirin Faldet said earlier today that people in the interior are intelligent people – not sinful, but intelligent people. There are also people in Akershus. But there are limits. If it is right, as the press is now saying, that the trade unions in their proposal for a national transport plan are now proposing not to build the new double track between Oslo and Ski, I can promise that there will also be fighting among the crazy Akershus residents. What sections of railway are to be developed if the Eastfold Railway and the Westfold Railway are not to be developed? And there has been cross-political agreement in Stortinget that the new double track between Oslo and Ski is the most important railway project after the double track between Oslo and Asker has been expanded. As if this isn't enough: in the middle of this, we're discussing building high-speed trains here on the house. Yes, you'll have to excuse me: I'm an ardent railway friend, but I ask questions about realism in such projects, and I also ask questions about timing such projects. Too often, floating and airy railway projects have destroyed realistic and sensible railway projects. It's a gentle comfort for people who don't get any improvement in the train offer on the Eastfold Railway and the Westfold Railway that we might be able to travel to Bergen in two hours in some number of years long in time. It's kind of like saying to a three-year-old who has broken his tricycle, and who needs a new one: No, you don't get a new tricycle, but you're going to get a motorcycle when you get 18 years old. It's a little bit of a help. It doesn't concern the musketeers in the home. The same is true of rail passengers in the East. If nothing happens to the rail offer, we can question the significance of the rail at all in the Eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e169	One can at least note one thing: transportation engages, and also within transportation has an impossible problem of being able to satisfy everyone. But at least I am glad that we have a government that actually prioritises the transport sector. Both in 2007 and 2008 it is visible in the budget. If we had prioritised transportation even more, I would have been worried, because then we would have had to deprioritize other areas. I do not think the great majority in this Chamber is very willing to do so. But I see, and I also understand, that despite the strengthening, despite following up on the economic framework of the national transport plan, the challenges are great. I think we can establish that we are not yet satisfied. In particular, like the previous speakers, I also think that the rail-related challenges are major. I am pleased – to underline it – that we can now start the detailed planning of the Larvik–Porsgrund Parselle in the next year’s budget. I also hope that we will continue to expand in 2009. That's how we've strengthened railway investments considerably. However, despite this, the situation is not in line with adopted objectives on implementation rates. In particular, it is demanding that cost growth reduces the efficiency of implementation in relation to the national transport plan. In the Labour Party we have had a debate on this, and we are going to have a debate and a discussion on this challenge. I think it is absolutely necessary to facilitate the introduction of an alternative form of funding within a sound framework that ensures a coherent and more efficient deployment of major routes in Norway. At my discretion, such a system must come into force as quickly as possible. I will not suggest which forms of funding might need to replace the current system with direct appropriations from the State budget, but I recognise and believe that changes must take place. I also record that the Minister of Transport is positive about just going into this work with the great seriousness of it. I think we agree that, first of all, we must have a form of funding that ensures a long-term and predictable rate of development, how important projects can be forged. Secondly, we need to ensure a more coherent and not least efficient deployment of larger projects over longer distances. I hope we can do that. Then I have to go to a local case, too, since the representative Hoksrud of the Progress Party in his row with the representative Fallet took up the matter of immediate action on the E18 through Bamble. I would like to stress that this will be very local, but I note that the previous speakers have also been local and detailed. I have recorded that the opposition mentions this distance in its notes. I share the view that road safety measures at E18 through Bamble are important and must be prioritised, and that work must be started as soon as possible, as long as the traffic increase is high and the accidents are many and there is increasing growth and higher speed from both sides of the county. It is with a little wonder that I noticed that the representative Hoksrud asked questions about a promise that was made this year, that one would start the work this year. Yes, it was actually supposed to be this way, and it was meant to be this way, but then the regulatory work was not done. That is when I am a little surprised to note that the representative Hoksrud allows himself to ask questions as to why things have not been carried out in line with the promises that were there, especially since Hoksrud is a local government representative in Bamble and actually knows very well where the issues are. Then I am a little surprised when he uses it as his starting point to attack the representative Fallen. He knows very well and is well informed about both progress, process and possible start-up times for the repairs, even if the question he asked is evidence of the sharp opposite. In fact, it was not possible to start the current year. For the next year, it may be realistic to start a cross, and I expect the Road Service to do so within the assigned framework. There are limits to how populist a should allow itself to be! In the end, I just want to express great satisfaction and joy at the fact that one within the framework of the Coastal Plant now has enough resources to repair the Brevik River, an important industrial fairway, an industrial fairway and a remediation that will mean that the industry in the Border Region will save tens of millions of dollars on more efficient transport. That is also good industrial policy in this budget. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e188	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e191	It's like several of the speakers have been on, a historically high allocation to rail in next year's state budget. Never before has more money been allocated to rail than has been proposed for 2008. Where the former governments have failed the railway, this government provides more money. But then, unfortunately, we have to record that the money still does not go for all the projects we want to realise. The cost increases in railway projects have been enormous and, in order not to delay the implementation of projects, projects are being put at risk for development. I will allow myself to be a little local: one of these projects is the conversion of Ski Station. Ski station is the first step in the development of a new double track between Ski and Oslo. A new double track here is important for the main transport year of Europe, but also for the daily commuting of tens of thousands of people south of Oslo, in Akershus and Eastfold. The new double track is part of the national transport plan 2006-2015, and the conversion of Ski Station is, as mentioned above, the first step on the road and a prerequisite for a new double track. As Akershus' representative, it was therefore very surprising to read the draft budget for next year, where the rebuilding of the station had been omitted. I understand that the cost increases have been large, and that it is difficult to get the money to go to. But that Ski Station, which in the last two budgets has been allocated money for pre-projecting and which is now fully ready for conversion, is not awarded a crown for next year, I had to comment. That being said, of course, I support the position of the majority of the committee. At the same time, I believe that this is an example of the need to rethink the way in which railway projects are financed. When the railway depends on annual appropriations from the budget, the money will not go to when the costs increase. The road construction situation is different, and I don't see the difference between the two. If there's something you should bet on building up, it's the railway. It's environmentally friendly, it relieves the roads in the press areas, and it increases the accessibility of everyone. I hope that, for the future, the railways will be financed in a different and more predictable way. Finally, rail bet is a bet for the future and for the climate. We would like to discuss high-speed rail and other major projects – I am a member of it – but it seems to be a little harmless because it is a long way ahead. The most important thing we can do now is to upgrade and expand the railways in the populace and central parts of the country. It's taking the climate seriously. It's to bet environmentally friendly. That's good business policy. The government is well under way, but in the future it has to be even more invested, and perhaps different, in order to build up the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e206	Akershus is struggling with increasing traffic on roads with neither capacity nor safety requirements to take up traffic growth. One of the pathways is rv. 4 through Nittedal, where one has had seven road fatalities on a short journey over the last ten years. Worse still, on the E6 there are the first kilometers of E6 after the Gardermo exit, where 23 are killed in 18 years. The extension of the E6 Gardermoen-Dal adopted the Stortinget a short time ago, and the project is already under way. The Minister for Transport shall be commended for his ability to produce that project as soon as possible. We take most of the funding ourselves through toll financing. Similarly, it's going to be on rv. 4 through Nittedal, but here Oslopackak 3 has to be in place before the expansion starts. And yet, the reality in our region is that we cannot build ourselves out of the problems of road development. First of all, we need to solve the challenges by strengthening the provision of collective services. We don't get a usable collective offer until there's four-track Asker–Oslo and Ski–Oslo railways in place. For the whole country, this is important. Very much of both freight and passenger transport must go to or through Oslo to get to the place of destination. We have no time to lose in implementing these projects. I am pleased with the results of increased transport appropriations for the expansion of Asker-Lysaker. So I'm nervous about the postponement of the start-up Ski–Oslo that this year's budget represents, and therefore underlines the importance that this project once again takes priority in the budgets that are coming. Through Oslopackakt3 there will be considerable public transport investment in Oslo and Akershus. Here again, the government will meet us through the proposed legislation that opens up to use road tolls to support and operate public transport. This is a very important prerequisite for improved both environmental and safety traffic management in the Oslo region. Oslo and Akershus are now establishing a common collective society. It should have been done a long time ago, but now it happens, fortunately. I think we should also consider whether the NSB's local traffic in the region is not part of this company. My Akershus experience is that we need better coordination of trains, buses and tracks in order to achieve a more efficient and competitive collective offer. Coordination of tariffs is one thing, it is partly done through the agreements of Stor-Oslo Local Traffic with the NSB, though often after painful processes. Coordination of route provision and planning is another and equally challenging. We still have the opportunity to get more quality and capacity back for the money by making better use of the resources in the Oslo region, but it requires that we have the state to contribute to the work that we have in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e217	Norway is a long-distance country to the markets in which business is to deliver its goods. Claiming itself in an increasingly competitive and globalised society requires good logistics, in the form of efficient ports, rail and safe and safe roads, where national roadways play a very important role. All of this must work in a good way if businesses in the districts are to develop and function. The industry in Møre and Romesdal claim well, despite large distances to the market, combined with poor transport years and lack of ferry traffic. But it's a matter of time how long export industries in our region can keep going, as the situation is today. It is in place to expect the responsible authorities to take the necessary action as soon as possible. The State Road Administration and the Ministry of Transport are responsible for our good offer of national roads throughout the country. Today's situation for More and Romesdal is that you have old, worn down ferments. It is felt daily that ferries are out of service due to technical defects. Long queues with vehicle combinations have to pass over ferry departures, which means that the goods arrive too late in the market. It is disappointing that in its reply of 19 November to my questions, the Council of State did not come up with a solution to prevent new ferry problems from emerging in the New Year. Competition in the market is tough, and a new crisis will weaken the reputation of businesses when the goods do not arrive at the agreed time. Right, along with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, in their committee comments, the Government is asking to give priority to improving the ferry offer in More and Romesdal. It is a strong wish, and it will mean a great deal to the business community in More and Romesdal if the Council of State today can promise that she will make sure that there is a new and better ferry traffic over the Moldefjord – an offer that will also improve the situation for Solevåg–Feskou. The E136 Dombås–Ålesund export route is the main strain virus for the export industry in More and Romesdal. Large parts of the road do not have the standard that a tribal route should have. The road is several places narrow and curved and missing the middle stripe. The right and the minority indicate in the setting of the need for a start-up to address this important East-West relationship and that it needs to be followed up over the four-year period. The right has also made proposals to build the Exsportvegen Dombås-Ålesund as a OPS project. Does the Council of State consider that there may be a OPS solution for the route Dombås-Ålesund? So in the end, it is positive that the majority supports the launch of the Kviv Road, which means the ferry-free trajectory between Eid and Volda and better commercial promotion, while strengthening the housing and labour market region.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e236	Rv. 35 through Jevnaker is of Oppland County priority as an important tribal road. The size also decided, in the previous roll-out of the national transport plan, to increase the allocation of 100 million. kr to the Parcels of Jevnaker-Olimb at the end of the 2014 planning period. Work is now under way in the State Road Service to investigate alternative trajectories to the adopted trajectory through Jevnaker, and it is made of planning materials for a new rv. 35 in the 2008 state budget, but no money for road safety measures through Jevnaker. With the time horizon that I see regarding finally, possibly new, vitrace for rv. 35 through Jevnaker, a completely necessary road safety work cannot wait. This applies in particular to Hadeland Glassworks-Olimb. Annual daily traffic along this route from Hadeland Glassverk to Olimb varies between 8 900 and approx. 5,800. ==References== 11 pst. of this traffic, heavy transport, and traffic is strongly increasing. Children travel every day along the road, and many have to cross the road. There are no street lights and no pedestrian and cycle routes. There's no lane, there's too high a speed, and it's not clear and it's too tight. There is also a lack of yellow stripe on the main road. Something has to be done now, before a serious accident occurs. In conversations with the municipality of Jevnaker, the state road authorities have confirmed that they see the need for road safety measures along the way. 35, but cannot give priority to this because of lack of funding. Some road safety measures have been prioritised on this road in the last year, but none of these measures are too soft for road users, only for drivers. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will take a closer look at the enquiry from the municipality of Jevnaker that the road service in the county must give priority to road safety measures through Jevnaker for the soft road users. It is also a good environmental action. If more people could use walking and cycling routes, there would be less need to use a car. The other matter I want to raise is a small matter, but important for those who use the offer, namely Randsfjordsferja. For many years, political initiatives have been taken to ensure that the crossing of Randsfjord is part of the national road network. There's a highway on both sides of the fjord, and for me who's from the inland, a ferry is a ferry – even if we don't have a coast. It has so far not been possible to find NOK 3 million on a government budget of around NOK 700 billion. That is why I will again make a recommendation to the Council of State, that it should be possible to find a solution for Randsfjordsferja in the near future. I have a hope that the Council of State will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e248	At present, there are two major issues in Eastfold involving the whole of Eastfold society. One is the fight for the new Eastfold Hospital, and the other is the fight for Smoking Civil Airport to have framework conditions that make it possible to operate an efficient, good and profitable airport. I would like to quote from the comments of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left in the setting, page 27: ‘These members stress that a level playing field for airports at Rygge and Torp must also include opening hours. These members have noticed that Rygge Airport has been denied its application for an extended opening time of half an hour in the morning and evening, despite the recommendation by all the municipalities concerned. These members ask the Government to ensure that the application is granted.’;» Despite the fact that all the municipalities said yes during the hearing, the Air Safety Authority made a totally incomprehensible decision to say no to a very modest extension of the opening time by half an hour in the morning and evening. This matter is now on the Minister of Transport's table. I won't ask her to comment on the matter here. It will be the subject of a proper trial, I believe. Here, the Council of State is given an excellent opportunity to show that the declared principle of respecting local elected bodies actually means something in the real world and in practical policy. I will issue a warning to the Council of State and ask the Council of State to follow closely. If, against suspicion, the Council of State is going to land to maintain the Famous Decision of the Air Safety Authority, it will trigger a rage in Eastfold so violent that it will be very politically uncomfortable for the Red-Green Government. This is no threat. It is in fact a sobering case information. Then I think that the blast that we heard here in the Chamber earlier today from the representative Gullvåg, and that we just saw on TV 2, will appear as a little trifle or a parentheses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e262	The main roads in the country are largely in very bad condition. Only approx. 5 pst. of which the roads have a satisfactory standard. Low budgets for the road sector in recent years have resulted in an enormous need for a power cut in both the construction and maintenance sectors. The Government claims that the framework of the national transport plan is being followed. What they're not saying, however, is that with the current rate of expansion, it's going to take 50 years before the tribal road standard becomes satisfactory. In the eight-year period 1997–2004, 214 people were killed in the E18 and E39 between Oslo and Stavanger. 142 of these were killed in meeting accidents, while the rest were killed as a result of poor geometric standards. The main road through West Agder is E18/E39. Large parts of this road are both narrow and curved. Even the new E39 route across the Fedafjord was before it was opened in September 2006, by Vegvesen itself assessed as under the expected standard. The Progress Party will work towards a significant increase in appropriations for the future budgets. During approx. 20 years is the goal of building a four-field road through the entire West Agder. In contrast to all other political parties in Stortinget, the Progress Party will complete the pedigree development before considering the high-speed ring in South Norway. When the matter of the high-speed assessment was dealt with in Stortinget in the autumn of 2006, the Progress Party voted against, not because we totally opposed the concept, but because we want to develop good tribal roads and important national roads. In parallel with road development, the Progress Party wishes to increase efforts to improve existing rail. It is necessary to ca. 11 billion kroner to extend the E39 to four-field road between Kristiansand and Stavanger. Getting these funds for a 20-year period without using toll financing will be a very big promise. If a high-speed train from Bergen via Stavanger to Oslo is to be built in the same period, it must be granted NOK 70 billion. In addition, large subsidies will be required in order to obtain competitive tariff rates. A similar project is the construction of a high-speed railway between Oslo and Trondheim. Without subsidies, the ticket price here will be approx. $4,000 each way. For the Progress Party and most people, the high-speed track will probably appear like the pure dream thinking. An extended E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger in 20 years is realistic. The party of progress does not waste state resources, but we are expanding the transport sector for generations to come. Safe roads result in better well-being for the citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e281	The tumors in the rosy mention of the budget for transport from the red-greens are loose, along with criticism of the previous government. The appropriations are now ‘longer’, as expressed by the Council of State in its statement. Yeah, sure. The government has NOK 132 billion more in tax revenue on its total budget than the Bondevik II government had in 2005. Of course, the appropriations have increased. The economy is growing, and everything is growing. It's on the verge of being little fair to compare the efforts of the previous government and the current by using the crowns. The point is that there is a significant increase in resource opportunities. The action space has increased within a responsible financial framework. The question is, how much do you want to spend on transportation? Then I don't think you can make this a budget balance question, so you could get the impression of earlier today. This is about prioritizing within the framework you have. It was with interest that I met the representative of Gullvåg – the self-appointed insurrection against the failure to meet their own and red-green election promises of 6 billion to the Vestfold Railway. It was exciting to see if he took his rebellion against the lack of railway appropriations, against himself and against his own government into the main hall of the responsible state council. He did. Following Eleville's local red-green promises in the election campaign, there has been a deafening silence in the red-green budgets regarding the allocations to the double-track Tønsberg-Barkåker and to the Westfold Railway – in this year's budget not even mentioned in the comments of the majority. But the representative of Gullvåg has now also found more scapegoats than the Council of State for its own losers in fulfilling the railway promises. It is the social economists who are to blame, especially those in the Ministry of Finance, for protecting what he calls a sacred budget balance. But the representative of Gullvåg is in a party that has had incredibly increasing amounts at its disposal within a responsible budgetary balance sheet. It is not that one billion to the Westfold Railway would overturn the budget balance. There was enough space inside. But something else had to go out. The foreign word for it is priority. It's only been done by the Council of State. Then the government, where Gullvåg's party is, has given priority. Where was Gullvåg during this priority work? I don't know. I have wondered that many times, but I have received an answer in the newscasts tonight. He has at least never been to the Council of State's office or tried to get the Council of State to talk about this. It tells me that when you appoint yourself as the head of a train rebellion on behalf of the residents, you should at least have a contact with your own State Council. I would like to support all the measures that come to get the railway to Westfold, but it does not promise well when those who are in charge, and who appoint themselves as leaders of this, at all, do not seem to be on the floor of their own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e294	I think it's a pleasure with the government's increased appropriations for transportation. It is important to invest in a positive development of transport across the country, and I naturally support the main objectives of the Government's transport policy: increased road safety, more environmentally friendly transport, efficient and accessible transport across the country. Railways are environmentally friendly transport. More rail is increased road safety. That's why we've been working on the important transportation projects that we've been working for for for many years, some for 15 years. The Eidanger tunnel is a key. As the representative of Terje Aasland was in his post, we are still very optimistic about solving the important railway project. Then I have a little kepphest, and it's ferry connection that connects highways or forms part of highway connections. We believe that it should be given national road status, as the representative Berit Brørby also pointed out. There are very few such projects in the country. But we have one in the Kragerø archipelago, and we have one in Randsfjorden, among others. It's hard to understand that this cannot be solved, so I again encourage the Council of State to look at those projects. I'm very happy with the railway, but the jam is great with some new road projects as well. I recommend everyone take a trip on the new road to Kragerø. It's incredibly beautiful, and it's very roadworthy. It's fun when we can complete those very long-distance road projects like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e310	When the Business Committee travels around the country on company visits, there are usually two messages – or demands – we get from business. These are good infrastructure and stable framework conditions. In the districts, good infrastructure often means good roads, and in that area, despite the increased investment we have now had after the government change, a lot remains to be done. I want to tell you about the consequences of a successful road project on my homelands, namely the development of E39 through the municipality of Skaun as one of the first three OPS projects in Norway. Much could have been said about it, but in my role as a proponent, I was involved in the entire planning process, where I had an enormously good cooperation with the Vegvesen, and I learned what extremely important role the rapporteur in Skau played in getting there that the plans were ready and the development could be started. The development was carried out in record time and under the budget. The bombing project cost the rapporteur working at the municipal elections, but the finished road meant a completely new era for Skaun, revitalised the entire Orchid region and created a belief in the future and a development that is absolutely amazing. Before the project was realized, there were more workers than workplaces in Orkdal. Today there are more jobs than there are employees. In this way, the new route has extensive ring-effects throughout the region. There has been a huge growth in trade and service. Today, Orkdal is the highest in Trøndelag in terms of trade per cent. Inhabitants, i.e. over Trondheim. The construction activity is on top, and it also spreads up the valley. So also for the development in the Meldal municipality, from which I come, the realization of this project was of the utmost importance. In the South Trøndelag, two similar projects are now under way: Rv. 714 from Orkdal to Hitra/Frøya and a project on Fosenhalvøya. Bombing company is organized both places. None of these two projects are within the planning framework of the NTP. However, rapid realisation will at least secure existing jobs and provide a basis for growth and development. When I report in this debate, it is really to stress the importance of building up the whole section of the road in one, and that we organise and implement this work in the most cost-effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e323	If there's something that interests people and businesses in Sogn and Fjordane, it's culture, especially what happens on our roads. We've got some railroad in the county. According to election promises, there were great expectations for the new government and for Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete, also in Sogn and Fjordane. The country needs a huge boost to an infrastructure reform that can provide business with benefits compared to competitors abroad and thus secure Norwegian jobs. At the government's pace, it will take 50 years to put in place an acceptable infrastructure. Inefficiency and loss of competitiveness will more and more characterise Norwegian society without the necessary infrastructure building rights. Sogn and Fjordane are a group with a lot of raspy roads. Tolls have now also been introduced in the county for the financing of racial protection. It is therefore the car list itself that pays for this. Without tolls also for racial protection, there has not been any increase in the licenses for this. National politicians in Sogn and Fjordane are facing major challenges in finding means for already priority road projects. The reasons for this are very high price increases after the road project was prioritised by the county council. I'm afraid that the progress of these projects will be pushed far in time if the state does not receive greater government transfers to trade than it seems next year's budget. So a few words about the City Tunnel. The only members of the government party say in their comments about this project that they are familiar with the distribution work on the City Tunnel and that they expect the Government to present the matter to the Stortinget. Unfortunately, government funds for the project do not exist in the government budget for 2008. Then we're equidistant, or rather equal cards, as we've been for 20 years when it comes to this project. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want the Ministry to continue its work on the despatch of the City of the Ship Tunnel as a OPS project, and today makes the following suggestions: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the Urban Tunnel project, where appropriate as a OPS project, and to incorporate the matter into its national transport plan.’ Most people in Sogn and Fjordane think well of the Center Party and Liv Signe Navarsete's promises before the last coup d'état to realize City Ship Tunnel. When she was then Minister of Transport in the government of Stoltenberg, people are having trouble realizing that there is not yet a single penny on the state budget of the City Ship Tunnel. Now the Center Party was not alone in promising money to City Ship Tunnel, it also did the Workers' Party and SV. Where does this go?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e345	First, I want to focus on the major challenges associated with racial roads. This concerns day-to-day safety — or insecurity, if one wants — both for schoolchildren, parents and commuters. We have a lot of these sections in the West, including in More and Romesdal. It's about people's quality of life. I am pleased that the Left found extra funds for racial protection in its budget. It is highly desirable to carry out the work of securing racially dangerous distances, and I ask everyone in this room not only to use a lot of words, but also to spend a lot of money on racial prevention of roads. After the budgetary procedure last year, there was a headline in the media that the maintenance and necessary upgrading of the Freifjord Tunnel on Krifast was ensured. There was no way the successful representatives of the Government Party had been in their work in the Committee! What was the result? Today the tunnel is as dark, the plates are taken down, the salt water drips. Surrounding municipalities had accelerated the upgrading. Yet nothing happens. Why? Among other things, because one does not have a scheme that the Labour Inspectorate can accept for the repair work. This is simply not sustainable. I ask the Council of State to give clear signals that now this work must be carried out, so that one gets started. This year, too, we find that representatives of the Party of Governments are going out in the media and are telling us about all the things that have been put in place by their help in the committee. This year it was a ferry business. The majority comments on national road haulage and the purchase of services state: ‘The majority emphasises that the Government intends to maintain the current route offer on national road ferries and to work for increased capacity in a single connection.’ Furthermore, reference is made to the situation in More and Romesdal and Nordland. That means that the 5 million. kr that More and Romsdal states have allowed to get out of the desperate situation of many cars that remain are unnecessary? Will the State take responsibility and clear up the degrading conditions? Is it to trust what the central party representatives have said, among other things. in NRK More and Romesdal? And so on: today it's an early trip to get the first flights from Kristiansund and Senterje to get home after the last flights to Kristiansund. These have been proposed from New Year onwards due to a lack of resources. I ask the Council of State to answer a clear yes or no whether it is the way the Central Party went out in the media, that the ferry offer for next year was secured, and that the problems would be solved. Or is it a new edition of and reprise on the Freifjord Tunnel, great words and rhetoric, but no action?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e363	‘Six thousand Hål’ from Hol to Ål – it was the representative of Helleland who quoted Hellbillies about rv. 7th@item: inlistbox It requires a little response -- here comes more Hellbillies: "I chose to run counter to the stream. They call me a ramp and a rebel. And whoever wants to fight must meet a harder clientele’ And then... ‘If the money wins over the tank; lay the ground soon ribs that wrecked. But can she you want to discuss? Then father, you can kiss me behind! When talking, we just took the time. And cut off days and years. Soon there will be one spring where more people will wear corps." It may not be surprising that the representative of Greece did not select these lines from Arne Molagen's pen. The fact that more people get better conditions is the main objective of the red-green government. By removing tax relief policy from the Right-Handed Government and going back to the 2004 tax level, we're adding 50 billion kroner to the community during this four-year period, money that Bondevik II thought was more sensible to spend on tax relief. So what does this have to do with transportation? Well, looking at the fate of the national transport plan through changing governments, there is striking disparity between political ambitions and practical results, regardless of government constellations. The representative of Greece’s previous reports on rv. 7 shows this in a good way. When the red-green government pulls more than 30 million. kr to start repairing the ramsrud inclinations just on rv. 7, the representative of Greece believes that this is too puzzled. Then it must be allowed to ask: what did the Right and the representative of Greece get on the right. 7 in the previous period? Yes, and important, rv. 7 became a tribal road. But money for upgrading, where did they go? ‘Six thousand hay’ from Hol to Ål — many of the holes were already in place in 2004. It is likely to suggest that tax relief at the time had a higher priority. Right now has more liberal budgets. They are constantly repeating, at the latest at the fleet's representative, that this government has now been so lucky enough to get NOK 102 billion more into tax revenue. Yes, it's going well in Norway. Nevertheless, neither the red-green government nor the Right Money has anything. But I notice that the right in this year's budget position also makes good use of the tax credits they didn't think they needed in 2004 and 2005. However, the remaining DKK 10 billion have now been better applied. If I don't remember correctly, it says in the Right Program that they want to remove the property tax. Well, it has a price label of approx. 10 billion DKK and of course has passed in silence in the 2008 Right-wing Draft Budget. Nice, when the fleet has NOK 132 billion left over, that he can't fulfill his own election promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e401	Since Svein Fleet is not in the Chamber, I must only comment on the last speaker's invitation, on the Right budgets and the property tax. He should know that removing the property tax will ensure that we keep Norwegian capital in Norway and thereby can create jobs in the long term in this country. That's our concern about removing the property tax. I asked for the word again because there have been some posts that I think there is a reason to comment. Kenneth Svendsen of the Progress Party represents the party that claims to be the “most people”. He had a frontal attack on the high-speed initiative, but at the same time exposed a level of knowledge on the matter that makes it difficult to take it seriously. If there's something that's eye-catching, right-wing, at the high-speed initiative, it's that'most people' think this is very exciting. But let's take a few facts: first, a high-speed network that combines lightning and regional trains will provide a unique transport service that we haven't seen the husband of in maybe 100 years. It's a visionary project so far, let go of it, but it's a vision that can provide labour mobility, business start-ups and a new growth outside the Oslo pot that we don't have any other means to realize. And not least, this will benefit 4/5 of Norway's population, not, as some have claimed, only alternative airline passengers between the big cities. Read about the market potential of all the investigations presented – that is interesting reading. The Progress Party opposes the use of State funds for high-speed rail. But on the road side, they take the exact opposite view. Here, only government money is to be spent. Understand the one who can. At least it's not logical, because public responsibility is probably both carriers. I am surprised that representatives from the Workers' Party who claim that they are for the railway, do not see that double tracks in the intercity triangle and the high-speed rail, in that order, are two sides of the same case, yes almost a premise. But when they get a little better involved in the matter, they'll probably see this. None of the reports available on high-speed rails in Norway describes the closure of subsidies on the operating side, rather on the contrary. On the other hand, as far as investment costs are concerned, there is a question of whether we in Norway should also modernise our railways, as we see in all other countries in Europe, and ensure speed adjustment that can bring people back to the railways. It'll be a rise for the next 100 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e414	For the sake of order, I would like to make it clear that the introduction to my previous post was intended to be humorous. I have understood in retrospect that it was not perceived that way. In Westfold, a people's reaction to the railways has begun. The campaigners have taken the initiative to collect 10,000 signatures for the requirement to develop the Vestfold track. They're already halfway there. I think it's the first time we've ever recorded a people's reaction for the railway. Municipalities are writing statements. LO and NHO take demonstration trains to Stortinget. The rapporteurs write letters to the department and the big business, and the county council is now offering to advance 100 million. kr to enable the development of the Vestfold track to begin in 2008. Westfolding doesn't like to act. It takes a lot of time before they respond, but when they do, they're serious. The population reaction of the railway in Westfold is already greater than the Bolärne action, and the double-track Barkåker-Tønsberg has become a symbol of the railway operation. So far, the train uprising in Westfold has not made any particular impression in the government offices. I think that's stupid, because it'll be sure to be noticed in the autumn of 2009. When the majority of the transport committee in the budget procedure last year set aside funds for the organisation and foundation of Barkåker-Tønsberg for the start of construction in 2008, we all thought that the railway promises would be met. The railway station set up in Tønsberg. The tenders were to be published as soon as the state budget was available – subject of course to Storting’s approval. Then came the budget, and we discovered that the only, fully expandable route on the Norwegian railway network is not mentioned in a single word in the government's budget proposal – not one word. This has nothing to do with money. That is the result of a transport policy priority and depriority. I see from the budget papers that Barkåker-Tønsberg is now in danger of being pushed down further into line, as it is now being set up by planning funds for the Gevingås tunnel on the Tronderbanen for the start of construction in 2009, because there is a need for a full mass for the expansion of the Værnes airport. However, it is still possible to start the construction of the route Barkåker–Tønsberg in 2008. The Vestfold County Municipality has made an offer, and then of course a train goes to spring when the revised national budget is to be submitted. Meanwhile, we're going to chase traffickers out on the road. Now the collective field from Asker to Oslo is finished. The express buses spend less time than the train on the route from Tønsberg to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e430	It sounds a bit magical when the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about road funds, where the returns are automatically to be used for roads and trains. But this is nothing but a premise to spend money on transportation. In my reply with the representative of Greece, I tried to ask if it was such that Greece believed that this was money that could be used in addition to the adopted room for action in the economy. I think we can interpret the answer, where I was hailed as young and dynamic, as Helleland knows that a road fund is something that doesn't solve the transport challenges in Norway, but rather is a nice trick to make it seem like the Right spends more money than they really do. The desperation that this government has managed to raise $6 billion is to touch and feel in this room. It must be frustrating for the Right to see that we have managed to find the billions that, among other things, Martin Engeset from the Right in the debate on transport in the previous period referred to as ‘air billions’. But we've done the job. We have found money, and deliver far beyond the level of ambition allowed by former Minister of Finance Foss in this area. In the end, I just want to send a thank you and warm thoughts to Oslo FrP that it is now moving towards the realization of Oslopakt 3, perhaps Eastern Europe's most important communication effort. There we have a huge effort on public transport, many important road projects, and it is therefore good to see that in some places there are progress party politicians who are more concerned with delivering results to the population than with driving. Horses for the people don't solve the transport problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e443	It is positive that we have a government that is betting on the railways. Train deployment will be one of many instruments of environmental policy, and not least current and future forecasts of traffic growth on the roads and in air traffic show that there is a high potential if one is willing to invest enough on the railway in the years ahead. I come from Gjerstad in East Agder myself. For us and for the whole of South Africa, it is important to establish a connection between the Southern Railway and the Westfold Railway. I see that this will require some action, and in the first instance completion of the Eidanger tunnel is crucial. Today, as most people know, the Southern Railway goes little where people live. A connection between the Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen with a new trasé will make the Oslo-Kristiansand-Stavanger route more competitive, as it will pay for large parts of the population to take trains over cars and buses, and there will be real competition with aircraft. To illustrate some of the potential of the railway on the Kristiansand-Oslo route, it can be mentioned that today there are 20 daily express bus take-offs. In addition to passenger car traffic, this is not forward-looking from an environmental point of view. A interconnected path will provide a modern transport service for both freight and passenger transport and will bring significant societal and business benefits. This is a matter which has been on the local and regional agendas for a long time and which engages, and it has been an overall goal for many years for the counties from Rogaland to Vestfold. I hope that we can gradually see the goal in the distance and take the necessary steps to make the connection between the Sørlandsbanen and the Vestfoldbanen possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e454	Traffic is central to value creation in Norway, and without an efficient infrastructure Norway will not be able to maintain a scattered population structure as today. Transport needs are increasing, commuting is increasing, and if the infrastructure is not included, people and businesses are moving. As a reminder of that, we have a burning example of that in these days. Norwegian Forest is paying 100 million. kr per. years more for transport than its Swedish and Finnish competitors for the same amount of transport. Together with a stressed market situation and a lack of a promised industrial power regime, it is one of the main reasons why Norwegian Forest is now threatening to reduce paper production in Norway. In the field of transport, they do not ask for subsidies; they ask for equal treatment. The road reaches everyone. Inland really has a scattered housing and industrial structure. Without a path, you won't be able to get on the offensive, so I think it's simple. The home country has had some success in gathering about the so-called lottorekka, i.e. roads 2-4-6-16. These are national nerves, not just domestic ones. They are already congested and must be given priority. The size decided to build up two parcels on the E6 a few weeks ago. It's a pleasure to the whole region. Extension of narrow four-field road on rv. 2 is in progress, and I hope the Minister of Transport does not stumble into all the pitfalls that are being laid. Now there are archaeological excavations that threaten to delay the expansion between Kongswinger and Skarnes. It's not supposed to happen. There must be little time for the project organisation to be shut down. I will not repeat the threat posed by the representative of Engeset, but I dare promise that there will be rebellion in South Hedmark too if that happens. Then the project will be destroyed, delayed, and there will be further unrest. The Minister of Transport promised me in the Questionnaire on 21 November that she would put all her weight in pushing this through. I'm still betting it's gonna last. My last heartbreak must be that I hope the Government will soon give up its ideological fight against everything that smells of private solutions. OPS projects may accelerate solutions for many of the challenges of inland transport. It's too expensive to let ideology rule. Let's get solutions that are effective, fast, and focus. Then the OPS is the answer. There's no shame in turning around in time at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e469	As the rapporteur for the climate communication, I would like to start by saying a few words about the challenges of the transport sector in the climate and the environment. Transport emissions account for almost a quarter of total greenhouse gas emissions, and they have increased by about the same amount over the last fifteen years, i.e. by 25 pst. This sector is expected to grow by 40 pst. towards 2020. That means we're going to have to do a big grip on the future. Everything from the use of public transport, green charging and restrictions on research and development, support schemes and good land-use planning is necessary. We must be able to make tough choices, including unpopular choices, and not do such things. Part of the progress: run completely crazy proposals, such as that the petrol should in any case cost NOK 8 litre. According to Nature and Youth estimates, this will lead to a traffic increase of two billion more kilometres driven on Norwegian roads. I'm from Westfold. There it has built up a people's uprising for the railway – not very strange, considering four aspects. First, the train is still running on a trajectory from the 1880s. Secondly, a splitter new E18 threatens to thank the train for both travel time and comfort. Thirdly, people experience what is happening – or rather not happening – as a breach of promises. Fourthly, people expect the climate and environmental problems we now have so much knowledge of to be translated into political action. Over the course of its two years, this government has strengthened the transport budgets, and in particular the railway budget, in a way it respects. At a time when the shortage of labour is pushing prices a little crazy, many people have a certain understanding of restraint, because there will be less rail per. krone. It is also important to keep progress in projects already under way. But we can't believe that unfair framework conditions that give way at the expense of the railway threaten to thank the train. And we can't accept that one of the most dissidently profitable sections, one of the sections with the highest customer potential, and which is also one of the most vulnerable to an ever tougher competition from the road, is going to be passed year after year. Modernisation of the Vestfold track started in 1993, but plans are still shifted in time. The regulatory plan for Barkåker-Tønsberg was adopted in 1997. It's been 10 years. And just to have said it: Barkåker–Tønsberg there is full agreement to build – from SV to the Advance Party, from LO to NHO. The NHO has even joined its first demonstration train. In S.B., we've been fighting for the Vestfold track every year, even when it was unpopular, because we said we wanted the railway in front of the road. It's not hard to say yes, thanks, both parts, everyone can do that. But we have always said that we are willing to give priority, even at the expense of the road, which today has clear budgetary advantages. We don't have time to wait much longer. For every month that goes, more people thank you and take the car instead. There has also been a train riot. It has begun to assert itself seriously, and that's good. With a broad alliance of all political parties, important organisations and ordinary people, we hope that now it will end with ignoring Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e486	I record that the representative of Aasland was in the pulpit here and was in a state of shock by the Government's efforts – just as the other representatives of the government parties have boasted of the enormous promise of transport. I don't think 10 km with the middle parts, which is what the government is betting on when it comes to new middle parts, or 51 km with new motorways, is some bet. And when this needs 500 million. I believe that 10 km or 51 km is not a big bet. I also see that the representative of Aasland claims that new funds have been put into the transport sector. When we know that the lag on the road network will increase by approx. 900 million. In 2008, I also do not think it is a big bet and a transport promise. The reason I took the floor was that I thought that Aasland's representative was quite unaccountable and sometimes a little rude and roughly in his statements about the background that there was no new funding for the E18 in Bamble. He claimed that it was the regulatory plan that was the reason why no funds were found for the E18 in Bamble. There are claims that I record that the representative of Aasland has made earlier. I have checked with the State Road Service whether there are anyone in the State Road Service who has told me that you are unable to fulfil and initiate these immediate actions at the E18 in Bamble. That's what I got cancelled. This has never been a subject of the State Road Service, and it is therefore reasonable to note in particular that this is the reason that is being used by this interlocutory body to ensure that the Government does not honour the commitments of representatives of the major fraction of the Transport and Communications Committee to the media in Telemark and to the action group that has worked to deal with the accident-prone route. I agree that the Vestfold track is important. It was a rather exciting post the representative Gullvåg held from the pulpit earlier this evening. I recorded that he moderated and claimed that his start was somewhat ironic. I'm not so sure how much irony there was, but I think there was a clear and clear feedback on how people in Westfold view the situation. I'm glad Gunn Olsen's representative is taking up the Eidanger Tunnel. I am also pleased that she is discussing the national road ferry service in Kragerø, Randsfjordferja and other ferry routes that should have been reviewed by this Government. I therefore hope that Gunn Olsen, together with others who feel it is important to look at these ferry routes – which clearly have an important role in the local environment, and which are important ferry routes entering a national road network – will vote for proposal No. Thirty-four. I also want to say that the infrastructure fund, as proposed by the Progress Party, will ensure that both the road and the track will receive money in the future, and that the Government will remain on the platform as the progress party's real investment on the road and rail continues. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e501	Time's up. The President will ask the representatives to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e504	Today's debate really reflects the importance of society for people. When we look at the list of three-minute posts, we see that it's getting longer and longer. There are more and more people who want to promote their projects in their counties and in their neighbourhoods. I appreciate that. It is interesting to listen to it, and it reminds me again of the important work we have in the government to build the country through both rail, road, ferries, racial security and aviation – and port policy, for which my good colleague is responsible – for this country to function for the future. To build for future business and business in the whole country, this is crucial. There have been some specific questions. I can't take everybody, but I'm going to come in on one that several people have picked up, that's the ferry situation in More and Romesdal. In the budget proposal, we have said that we should be particularly attentive to Nordland and More and Romsdal's problems. Ferja MF «Sogn», which now operates in More and Romesdal, I want to continue also over the New Year. I'll contact my friends in the Road Directorate about that. I think there's a possibility that she could at least go for a few months in the new year. At that time, as we then buy, I hope that we will also have a permanent solution in place. If it's MF Sogn or another ferry, we get to come back. But my objective is, as my good partners in More and Romesdal have also said, that we should get good solutions. The government is busy that we should have good ferries in both Mora and Romesdal and in all other states. Travel is the road. Where the ferry starts, stop the road. That's why I also understand those who want to turn the county trip into a state road trip. But I think it's an unfortunate time to go into that question right now, because we have a discussion in relation to the fact that the national roads might be regional roads after 2010. To the two people who have taken this up in their posts, I would say that I thought we should wait a little bit. I understand the frustration of those who don't get their projects out when they want it. I have experienced myself waiting for a project in my neighbourhood. I understand this very well, but when prices go up, and even with the promises that this government has entered into, it's so that we can complete the important projects that are in progress, we can't start the 'heart' project. We want the Government to pursue a responsible policy, where we are committed to completing a project. Then the others will come in their turn. I can promise that the Minister will not be a brake pad, a cork for railway or road projects. When it comes to the Progress Party and their funds and foreign projects, I have to say, with a glimpse of the eye, that one can easily get associations to one of Trond Kirkvaag's many characters, Preben from Montebello. The businessman Preben was known to be a busset in the fabled ‘Double-booker’ path. There is no fund and foreign project we need. We need priorities within the budget framework to complete projects already in progress and set in motion the necessary new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e515	The main challenge of our time is climate change, which is coming faster and more strongly than recent factual reports would suggest. The transport sector accounts for about one quarter of Norway’s climate emissions. It is therefore important for us to move towards sustainable development in the transport sector. It will be demanding, because there are many measures that need to be taken, but it is absolutely necessary that we do so. We have to use the tax and tax system, and we have to use some other measures. We know that many people want to use public transport if it's facilitated. The reward scheme for public transport in the big cities is a good system, a system that I am happy to see the Stoltenberg government continue. It is good that the Government increases the number of cities to be included in the scheme in 2008. But the level of funding that the Government is investing in is disappointing. An increase of 6-7 million. kr may mean a reduction in the cities already in the scheme. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we therefore propose an increase of 60 million. to make the increase real, and to improve the collective effort at the three new sites to be included in the scheme in 2008. We also know that we need targeted measures, and one of the most targeted measures is to get more of us to take the train. Then new routes must be planned, and new ones must be built. That's why I'm glad that the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget has managed to put in more money for investigation work, so that the tunnel solution through Moss can be completed, and that soon you can also start building. Because it is important that we move on – that we take step by step. It's probably none of us who are very happy to spend a lot of money on investigation, but investigation is necessary to be able to build. We cannot solve the climate challenges we face unless a policy is pursued in which one dares to give priority to sustainable development in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e530	From the past we build futures. But I'm having a hard time getting the sense of today's opposition parties. Take, for example: OPS funding, which is mentioned extensively in the debate and in the setting from the Right and others. What happened earlier? It was the Stoltenberg I Government that launched the three pilot projects with OPS funding. In the years when Right Per-Christian Foss was Minister of Finance of the Bondevik II Government, where the Right really had the opportunity, there was not a single new proposal for the OPS project. Why not? – then you had the right chance. You can ask yourself, had it become a bad idea, or if there were any of the other parties in the government that didn't want to, maybe it was the Support Party that opposed this. In any case, it could be that the Right already then assessed it so that in a heated economy there was no room for more major new road projects. We're looking forward, and we know what we've got. For example, the Government increased last year's investments to rail by 50 pst. in relation to the proposals made by the Bondevik II Government in the 2006 budget. The 2008 budget further increases efforts. For the first time in history, the framework of the national road and rail transport plan is more than met. In addition to spending more money, we're also spending the money better. The means are used to ensure rational propulsion in all plants under construction. This means that some projects start later, but they have good progress when they are first started. If the funds had been smeared thinly, this would have led to higher total costs, and that the projects had been completed later. The government has increased the maintenance effort on the railway in addition to existing plans. This is important to increase quality, so that the risk of degraded operation can be reduced. The result is that there will be more punctuality and regularity in train traffic than if we had not had such an effort. If the maintenance effort is delayed, the maturity will accelerate rapidly so that the total expenditure increases over time. The government spends more money on the railway, and makes sure that there is more railway for the money. This budget is good. All the government parties are united behind the draft budget and the position being debated today. And had I had some time, I should have made a visit to the representative Helleland, who quoted some stanzas from their good local bands. I could have quoted something from a band in Hedmark that is about the king of the campsite.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e541	For the record, for history and for my own part, I have to take the floor again. In the proposition we can read that there's a decrease of 3.8 million. kr in grants to private aerodromes. The reduction is due to the closure of Farsund Airport on the Lista, and I'll take it for information. However, it also states that the reason for this is that Lista Airport AS has rejected an initiative from local authorities on a spice layer to ensure further operation. That's wrong. Let me point out here that this responsibility is not with the Minister of Transport or with the Committee on Transport, even if savings are made there. But it's actually the state that didn't want to be on the splinter layer. The history of the Lista Airport is a story of political decisions and broken promises. The size decision has not been followed up. The National Auditor slaughtered the disposal of the aerodrome. The ESA is investigating what has happened, and the case has been reported to the police. The story is just sad. The size decided to spend 50 million. kr to convert the aerodrome into civil operation. Local investors shall be honored for their perseverance. That's why I had to say from. I have recorded that there have been some stanzas from different bands here. To that I would like to say: I sat down in the hall and looked at speakers standing in a row.I was a little surprised, you, by the way:Why was I just happy?The raft and Hallerak's talk if they were a slot machine.The money ran out of the box– asphalt on each square.But we who have to take responsibility, we understand more than them.And if they can sit a little quiet, well, we can soon twiddle home. [[Laughter]] I said a little wrong about the party that is owned by Hagen & Co, because it seems they have secured money.Did I hear someone who laugh?In the end, I want to honor our government council, which never gets thanks from our table, because it is as sure as amen: The job she does, it is great. – And this was performed by the poet himself. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e601	The President records that there are many qualities in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e605	I'm not going to perform any rhyme. Norway is a country that is quite far and crooked, and it requires quite considerable investment. The aim of transport policy must be to shorten the distances in our country. Good transport policy is good district policy. That is why I am pleased that we have a government council that sees the whole country, and that has been able to raise investments and maintenance in the transport sector. To achieve the goal of putting the whole country into use, we can't bet unilaterally on either road, rail or aircraft. One must bet wide. In 2007, good broadband coverage is almost as important for development as good roads. This government has been able to see this. It has used funds on broadband, while being able to follow the other objectives of the national transport plan. As a representative of a large-distance country, I believe that the work on strengthening the transport budgets must be given full force in the future. For Hedmark, the decision to expand the four-field E6 has been a major victory. I believe that we now need to put extra effort into getting the double-track railway to Hamar. It will provide a boost for the region, but at the same time it will have national significance in terms of shortening travel time north-south in Norway. Both these promises – rail north-south in Norway meeting in Hamar, and the extension of the double-track railway to Hamar – will be significant. One of the other important transport years north-south of Norway for goods not shipped by rail is rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox I am pleased that this year the Government is adding money to the extension of Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox This work needs to be reinforced. Rv. 3 is heavily burdened by heavy traffic. Traffic view that leads to many dangerous situations – and unfortunately to accidents. The enlargement project is cheap and provides a lot of road safety for the money. Norway is dependent on good transport corridors north-south and east-west. The country must be bound together. Construction of double-track railway to Hamar and repair of Rv. 3 is important to ensure better transport corridors through Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e624	The representative, Wickholm, was concerned about our accountability when it came to the economy and our road fund. I just want to inform the representative that it was made very clear when the Right went in for this road fund, that it is the same 20 billion kroner that the Government wants to set aside for Enova's fund. We want to spend the money on road funds – and at the same time get to a scheme of green certificates. So it's the same money that's inside the system. The representative of the Fall was concerned about who should have the credit for the OPS projects and that this was something that happened before the Right came into position. Yes, that's right, but it was the representative of Oddvard Nilsen, who was the head of the Transport Committee, who made sure that an overall opposition adopted OPS projects – against the will of the Workers' Party and the SV. So there's nothing new there. The Labour Party continues to oppose the modernisation of the public sector. So to the representative Lund Bergo, who is a hot trailer of roads, and who appears to be it. He wants road development and road improvement, especially on Rv. 7th@item: inlistbox But when his colleague, Hallgeir Langeland, worked as chief spokesman for the government parties, went to the pulpit, we were told that we should not get 1 kroner for new road projects. It was supposed to be a break for road development. We had to take a break and think about it," said the representative Langeland. He wanted to take a deep edalic variant with the rest section of the road development. I thought I was cutting the rest for rv. 7 was permanent, I, since one could get these 6,000 holes. So the Lund Bergo party trap will wait even longer. So to another theme, which no one has mentioned. If we're to succeed in getting goods off the road and over on the sea and on the track, we need to have functioning intermodal ports or hubs where rail meets port, and where transhipment can be made efficient and easy. Therefore, an overall opposition promotes the proposal to draw up a node plan. Let me give you an example: in the Drammen, politicians and the port community want to co-locate the Railway Agency's freight terminal with the port. Everything is right for this, but so far the Railway Agency has opposed it. They want to keep their terminal in the middle of town, where heavy traffic thunders through densely populated areas. That's why we need some overall grip. I hope – and look forward to – that the National Council of Navarsete and the State Council of Pedersen can put in place intermodal nodes in connection with the next NTP. Finally, a little bit about the Ringeriks course: the majority will choose the path through Kroksund instead of the one adopted through Åsa. The problem is that the Kroksundtraseen is no longer bound, and there are built dwellings mostly along the whole line. This will lead to an extended postponement of the Ringerix Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e639	There has been a strong indication from the position that the opposition politicians did not see the light when they themselves were in government, but that they suddenly now see the light when they are in opposition. I must say that it is probably none of the opposition politicians who have spoken so strongly from this pulpit as the government's own representatives have done. I refer both to Steinar Gullvåg and to Sverre Myrli. The former was at least strongly close to dedicating his own minister. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we do nothing but spend the money that this government had invested in the budget for transport, in a slightly different way. We've eaten the budget a little bit more to make it a Christian People's Party alternative budget. We only have 65 million. kr extra in relation to the government budget. We would have liked more. But we stay within exactly the same tight overall frame. And then we got 65 million. kr from other framework areas. But then we've re-prioritized something, so we have + 75 million. kr for racial protection, because we think it's important. We have $30 million. Extra kroner to the midpoints, because we think it's important. We have 50 million. kr to national road sections, which have been extensively mentioned here both by position and by opposition. We want to increase the reward scheme by 60 million. kr, because it has been extended to several cities. And we have planning tools to solve the problem of new trajectory against Moss. Then I have strongly pointed out the skepticism of the budget by the fact that North Norway is about to fall out – and that from a government that met in Tromsø with a greater number of government councils than what has ever been on Northern Norwegian soil, yes, the Prime Minister himself said. I am convinced that the Minister for Transport was also present there. And what did you promise? Well, they promised an extraordinary investment for North Norway now. It should also be in the field of infrastructure. And then we feel the exact opposite, that it's going really wrong; it's going the other way. I can mention examples of things that were promised. I do not see any investigation into the Nikel–Churches railway section. ‘New Corridor’ was the Minister of Transport high on the road, with whom this government died. There are race protection projects in line. We have our own racial security post. And as far as I know, the NTP is a guiding framework, so that when the minister meets my question in line with that yes, but I've only followed the NTP, there are many opportunities within it to also prioritize some projects in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e654	It might be good if the opposition would have admitted that the Government is complying with the national transport plan. Then we could have a good starting point. They never did, even with the Advance Party as a supporting party. In fact, I think it is strange when we think about later that the Progress Party did not create a government crisis in the last period, whose relations were so important to them. No, they agreed on one thing, and it was giving tax havens to the richest. That's what was the most important thing. We have formidable tasks in the field of transportation, and maybe we could admit that previous governments might not have focused enough on that with transportation, and maybe that's why we're in the situation we're in today. But the promise we made in the national transport plan over the ten-year period, plus 22 billion kroner in relation to the Bondevik II government, we all seem to be a good promise, not least in terms of our fulfilling it. In addition, it is important that we have understanding and respect for each other's priorities. It is important for this government to put the whole country into use. It is then important to have good transport solutions, both in the districts and in the central areas. In rural areas, great value creation – in the fishing industry and not least in the process industry – is adding formidable values to this large community. In the central eastern regions, the most important people are to be transported, while in the rural areas there are fewer people, but the greater the values. I think everyone agrees that we should have more money for transportation, and perhaps – I might say – it was time for a transport policy lift together. Maybe the other parts will be involved. I'm not so sure that the Progress Party will be involved, they might be a bit too far from the other parties on the Stortinget. If we were to have doubts about the government and government parties on the Stortinget, we would agree on the budget, including the transport budget. So finally to my good friend from the north, Jan Sahl: No, North Norway is not about to fall out. I think it is the representative who has not read the budget well enough. It's not long since we opened the Korg Mountain Tunnel. This weekend the representative himself attended a big event – when Lofast was opened. It has made formidable investments on the Nordlandsbanen, among others. with remote control, etc. That's how I could still have, but time doesn't allow anymore. I propose that the representative, Sahl, take a new round on the priorities of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e669	I have a feeling that the OPS of some people in this room is being presented as a magic form. I'm going to say that this is not how the Center Party looks at it. OPS has its positive aspects – that is to say – and it is that the projects started are well completed, but it is also possible to do so outside the OPS arrangement. The challenges with OPS are greater. Then the question here is whether the positive aspects of OPS are addressing the challenges that are here. With OPS, no fresh funds are added. On the other hand, it is a fact that a commitment will be made to the future budget. Correctly, such a loan arrangement will allow projects to start. The problem is that the future budgets will be locked down and the action space for prioritizing new projects will be reduced later. What about local democracy? What about making decisions in line with the time we live in? The world is in continuous transition. The most important thing, in the view of the Centre Party, is to provide larger, fresh funds over the current budget, just as that government has done in all its budgets, not that the State should out and borrow money through a OPS arrangement, as the OPS arrangement states. Thus, the centre party sees clear opposites to the use of OPS. But when that's said, the Center Party is offered to assess different funding models, including. in the light of the OPS evaluation report contained in the forthcoming national transport plan. We've been talking here about having a napkin. I want to answer so that a hump is usually a mistake. If we keep going, we'll keep going, so we don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e678	The representative of Greece seemed almost amazed that I wanted to rust up rv. 7th@item: inlistbox I want to rust up many roads around Norway. Like Greece, I've grown up in Hallingdal. With such growth, one must not have been on many Saturday parties and stood and frozen on the platform before one could wish for a road between Hol and Ål, home to the home built. He's also concerned because it seems to be the opposite of what Langeland wants, and what I want. When Langeland places such emphasis on the railway, I would say that when we look at developments in the Stortinget, he has had such a good influence over the last eight years that they are now far into the Right positive both to the high-speed rail and to the development of the railway. Maybe the Stortinget should have had several railway enthusiasts. It's just the railway I want to spend the rest of my time on. The last time we had a Minister of Transport from Sogn and Fjordane, we replaced the route in Ringeriksbane. We lost the main road, and then we wait on the track. We shouldn't do that. The Ringerix Railway is a good project from end to end. If you have perspectives on tomorrow or 15-20 years ahead with high-speed rail, Ringeriksbanen is a good project for the only region near Oslo that does not have rail traffic. Some later to think that the traffic problem between Ringerijk and Oslo can be solved by four-field motorway. Anyone who has tried to drive to Oslo on the morning quask and sees what meets you in Sandvika, understands how it will go. Greece also mentioned the problem of the Ringeriksbanen trasé elections, and that the majority would like to have a new round on trasé elections. I have thought that the course that was chosen last time was not good. At the same time, I would say that the most important thing is the realization of the Ringerix track. In this way, trasé choices will be entirely subordinate to me. I'll be able to live with the lines that are. But for the Right, it's as simple as it was the last time, that they pick a rag that's six kilometers longer, costs a billion more, that people don't live there, and that it destroys the traffic in the Municipality of Hønefoss – it's surprising that it doesn't worry anymore. With the Ringeriks track and a repair of the Bergensbanen we can come from six and a half hours down to four and a half hours. There are about 100,000 trailers this year between Bergen and Oslo. That means that in my hometown, Gol, we're already getting rid of 200 trailers today. Our goal is to get rid of this 200 more.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e691	It was the representative of Lund Bergo. which had the word now The next speaker is Sandberg, Head of Committee, which rarely declams and sticks Then the representative is Marianne Marthinsen. who is given the floor to a three-minute greeting. [[Loud mood in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e706	The debate has been for many hours, and I think we've got more culture out of this than kilometers by road and rail, so I'm not going to try on any cultural feature, Mr. President. I think that would have created even greater involvement in the debate and in the criticism of the Progress Party. The reason I took the floor was actually the post from Øyvind Halleraker from the Right, who allows himself to be the only one competent in high-speed trains in Norway. I am pleased with the commitment and enthusiasm, but the representative Halleraker allows himself to criticise Kenneth Svendsen when Svendsen makes his contribution on the basis of statements by economists and climate researchers, etc., which are, in fact, highly critical of the high-speed train plans and which claim that the lynchogens will become a subsidy shutdown, that profitability in operation is completely impossible, and that the costs of operating the system are severely underestimated. It's not the Progress Party that says this, it's completely different that says it. Economist Steinar Stroem says: ‘If we calculate in this way, energy produced in three-dimension mills will be the most profitable thing to do here to land.’ So it's not the Progress Party that says this. I record that the Halleraker representative is raising himself to have more competence in both the environment and the economy than those who are professors in the field. And we'll notice that in the future. I feel that the criticism of the Advance Party is subdued this year in relation to previous years in terms of the use of oil money and funds. I hope that I can be a bit on the way to achieving a predictable financing of our infrastructure. This may also be due to, among other things, Ministerial Council Navarsete has actually said, acknowledged and acknowledged that Carl I. Hagen may have been quite right when he has repeatedly argued that more use of oil money on the road is a good social economy. This may have occurred with the Council of State, and in the longer term it will also grow such an understanding in the Ministry of Finance and in the rest of the Government. Because it is good economy to use more of the state's profits to build infrastructure, no matter how high prices may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e722	There has been a lot of talk about the railways in this debate, and I am pleased about that. It is with great satisfaction that I see the government continuing and strengthening the great promise made on the railway last year. I also share the view of those who have pointed to the need to bet on the railway in the areas where it lives the most people. The intercity triangle is important in this way. Infrastructure is also important in itself, but trains are also an important tool in climate policy. That is why I am not so surprised by the clarification that came from the representative Hoksrud today that the Progress Party does not want to bet on the railway. Ketil Solvik-Olsen is doing what he can to get the Progress Party a climate policy, but it is clearly a piece left. Trains are good, but we never get there that everything goes on the rails. We also need to find good climate solutions for road traffic. CO2 emissions from the transport sector have increased by 25 pst. Since 1990, and we still expect strong growth in the coming years. We've gradually got focus on biofuels. Veneer generation biofuels can soon become a reality. It is biofuels that can be extracted from biological waste from residues from other activities and that will have a better environmental impact and less negative impact than traditional biofuels have. Some of the solutions might be there. HyNor, the Norwegian hydrogen route between Oslo and Stavanger, is another very exciting project. Hydrogen will hardly contribute to the large greenhouse gas reductions in the short term, but it can become incredibly important in the long term. The development of electric cars is also something that can help solve the problem of emissions from the road sector. In any case, we need a systematic effort to find the new forward-looking solutions. I am one of those who was very happy to notice that the Minister of Transport drew out the idea of a Transnova today, and said that the department is looking at such an instrument. Then we can't help but say that it takes both whips and carrots to stimulate less car use. From Stockholm and London, we have seen that road pricing combined with reinforced collective services has led to a marked decline in car use. I am glad that in the Climate Communication we say that we will continue to work on measures that can make road pricing more topical as an instrument, for example. by targeting the reward scheme more. We need to make both the popular and the less popular decisions, to solve the problem we have with large emissions from the road sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e740	I will comment on some of the things that have been raised here in the debate on maritime transport. First to the representative Starheim, who called for the City Ship Tunnel. That's where I'll refer to St.prp. No 1, where it says that the Government has decided to launch new investigations. This has been done on the basis of enquiries and strong local and regional involvement in Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal. It is the Coastal Agency that has been commissioned to make the new investigation on the City of the Ship's Tunnel, to take a closer look at its size and its utility. That report is expected to be available during this month. One of the options explored is an extension of the tunnel dimension so that the Hurtigruta and other vessels of similar size can pass through. A broader assessment of the project suggests new studies to identify the consequences of increasing the tunnel dimension, including new cost estimates, nautical issues and socio-economic impacts. With the extension of the project, there will be a new project at the same time, which implies that the projects must be subject to external quality assurance. Once completed, the Stortinget will be properly briefed. With regard to the OPS question, it is natural to consider any form of financing together with the notified investigations for the new project. The representative of Greece missed focus on ports as a logistics hub. I actually took that up in my post, where I also said that the ports have to be seen in connection with the other modes of transport in the national transport plan. That is what we are doing – the Minister for Transport and I – over the New Year. The Law on Ports and Waters will also help to strengthen the role of maritime transport. Finally, I would like to bring some words of comfort to Jan Sahl, who is looking for projects in the north. Firstly, I just want to stress that the NEW project is not dead, but there must be a job done locally. It's not just the government this is on. The commercial interests must be put in place, and there must also be a network of agreements with Russia and China. We can't just build NEW on the Norwegian side. We also have fishing ports in Melbu and Værøy, which are completed in 2008, and moloreparations in Laukvik start up. These are projects in the Nordic countries. Dredring in Havøysund also starts in 2008. All of these are difficult projects that benefit the Nordic part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e755	When the common main priorities of the domestic states are also called lottorekka, it's not because we think there are some simple solutions and some quick gains to pick up on transportation. I guess a lot of hours of debate here has illustrated in a pretty good way. On the transport budget, there is often an urgent need for salvation. There are many years of work behind the efforts that have come on the four road sections I mentioned, and that is hope. There's bets, and there's positive signs in this work. But after all these years, it is also clear that progress is important. It's important to keep the pressure up. It is important to find solutions to get to the goal as quickly as possible. I am pleased with the signals that have come in terms of more opening up to OPS solutions, or solutions that are up against such thinking, because we have seen from the reports that exist, that there is actually one way to take greater action and to get a greater pace of development. So we know that for the E6, there are some intersects in the sea when it comes to regulations that need to be in place to be able to take the big grips. I would like to say from us who come from Uppland – and I think maybe I have more with me – that if it is necessary to resort to state regulation in order to get hold of the regulation in the case of E6, you will have our full support – at least my full support. It's also, of course, important to give signals. That drive isn't just about those who are actually up to the road sections we're talking about. In the case of E6, we have the whole Gudbrand valley lying there, waiting for a ride, so to speak. It is clear that you find yourself building out from the south, but at the same time there is a strong need to move on. I also hope that the same is true for the E16, that you will look for new solutions that can give you an overall grip and opportunities to get more speed in terms of E16. In Valdres the train was also replaced by the road. For the time being, a bill has been made without a host, and we hope – if not otherwise – that there will be hope of being on the way to Sogn and Fjordane, that we will find some grips that will allow us to clean up, if not in other places, above the mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e767	Transport is catching. Everyone has one way or more, which of course I have. Unfortunately, through many budgets and many governments, Hedmark has had little money compared to the number of kilometres and not least the transit traffic in the county. We also have many fatal accidents due to many kilometers of bad roads. In today's Hamar Arbeiderblad, there's another article about a fatal accident. A woman in her 60s has died in a truck accident. She's victim number. 101 since 1994. That's 101 too many! I'm afraid there will be many more as time goes on, and you don't give enough money to travel and travel. Money is the key to everything, also the way. Unfortunately, even if the road is to be repaired, it does not happen quickly enough and not on a long enough stretch. This must come! Otherwise I also have to mention rv this time. 3, which is an important road, a road that is not only used by heathers but also a transit road for truck transport. In the election campaign, Hedmark Centerparti’s representative traveled around the county and promised money just to rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox One hundred million. kr would come every year. The money was missed last year, this year a few dollars have been allocated. The central party representative is on the thing, the central party is in government, and the central party has the council. Where's the money? And where is the priority of rv. Three?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e780	The representative of Eirin Fallet has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e783	The debate is approaching the end. I think it's been a neat debate, to put it straight out. It was the representative of Greece from the Right who made me take the floor, because it has to be a little story refresher here, I think. It was such that when the three government parties in the opposition in Stortinget proposed to increase the road and rail frames by NOK 1 billion, this was rejected by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. There was no room for such a bet, and it was unthinkable to adopt such an offensive framework when one had so far failed to comply with the planned, less ambitious frameworks which had so far been in force. Fortunately, the Progress Party joined with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in order to secure a majority for the far more offensive plans on the road and rail, and I would like to commend this to the Advance Party. And then I beg the Right to go in the sea!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e790	After listening to the long list of people from many representatives, all of whom have their good and well-founded projects, I have to say that we may need both OPS funding and a little more to reach the framework that we should have in order to meet the Storting. The representative Per Sandberg may well have drawn me far from Carl I. Hagen. The background to the story, which came in Drammen's Official Journal, was a meeting at Modum, where I referred to an article by Jahn Otto Johansen called «Think if Carl Ivar is a bit right?». The centre party has long since been founded before the Progress Party was founded, being a continuous driver of infrastructure to build the whole country. I have ours and am still – completely independent of Carl I. Hagen – overestimated that investment in infrastructure is profitable. There I am very happy that the Progress Party has come after the Center Party and has taken an offensive hold on investment in infrastructure. We're healing some! Where our path will be distinguished, it is the financing of this infrastructure, where creative arrangements such as foreign budgets come into the budget. It is quite impossible to understand how expenditure on the foreign budget can be distinguished from other expenditure. For many of the big entrepreneurs, they are foreign: Skanska, NCC, Bilfinger Berger, etc. They use largely foreign labour. The question then becomes: The Meiner Progress Party that Norwegian company with Norwegian labour will not be able to compete for contracts? Does one mean that foreign workers should be kept intern, so that it does not create ringing in the Norwegian economy? It's the kind of double-booking that looks at me at the idea of our friend Preben in the «Double-Booking Road». I'm not negative on the idea of project financing. The central party's national government is very positive about it. I thought it might be important to go into those discussions, along with the rest of the Government. OPS is expensive. The state doesn't need to borrow money, but it's a win you can make, for example. in the case of project financing, or in the case of a priority given by this government, by having coherent development, which nevertheless has a political cost of not being able to start new projects, namely to speed up the implementation of the projects. Of course, it has a great social benefit. It's the government's busy. We're going to work on that and make sure that we get the greatest possible social benefit from every penny we put into the race.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e803	It is a bit interesting to follow this debate and some attempts to link transport policies to environmental policies in the most savvy ways. One example was given in the post by the representative Marthinsen, where she gives me credit for giving the Progress Party an environmental policy. I accept that, but at the same time she gives the impression that no one else in the Progress Party cares about the environment, and that is completely wrong. Her reason is that we're not, supposedly, as positive to the railway as what everyone else is. And if one is not as positive to the railway as Marianne Marthinsen is, one does not have a good environmental policy. It's the results that count, not who has the best ambitions or the best parties. One has to look at the totality of transport policy, not how much money is allocated to a single mode of transport. We want a better railway. Our representatives have expressed this earlier today. If one does not prioritise it with the same amounts as all others, this does not mean that environmental accounts necessarily get worse for that reason. It is the totality of transport policy that is the important thing, not how much a single rate. It's the combination of car, boat, plane, train, bike and foot, for that matter, which matters. It is not only useful to boast that a person grants money to the railway, if the cars are waiting and parking in queues elsewhere in the country. There's an equal amount of emissions for that. Resources must then be given priority. Just to illustrate the whole thing here, which shows that Marianne Marthinsen and others have misunderstood this kind of debate, we can look at the lightning debate. It gives the impression that it is also an environmental sign. If you're not too fast, you're not too good for a good environment either. So one has to think: if you're going to spend up to $300 billion on building lightning trains to reduce CO2 emissions by an estimated 70000 tonnes, is that a very good use of resources from an environmental point of view? When you know that even a bad CO2 clean-up project like Kårstø costs only 5 billion kroner, but still cleans 1 million tons a year, you have to see this in a context. The lightning debate has become such a debate that even the Right has agreed to break the rule of action in order to realise this, without anyone having any environmental benefits. Then one here has to sit down and look at the totality of the transport policy. And then one would like to bring the CO2 account there, and see who's the best. But I have not seen any such numbers presented in this room. I recall a SINTEF report that was submitted in February of this year, which showed that better roads lead to significantly lower CO2 emissions. One cannot show the same reduction by means of lightning trains or other railway investments which are raised here and which are then used as an example of the fact that the Progress Party is not as environmentally friendly as other parties. It's important to get better railways into the big cities. It's important to get a better rail and a better freight traffic, but there has to be a way of getting money out on a railway project where it almost doesn't travel people, and where the car is a much better means of transport, overall, than the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e826	The representative Truls Wickholm has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e829	The impression that the Progress Party is not concerned with environmental policy is probably also due to things other than the fact that they are not concerned with the railways. There's probably an overall assessment that's behind it. But over to someone else. I'm going to give the representative Sandberg right in one thing, and that's that this year's debate on transport has been somewhat milder against the Progress Party and their interest-driven and irresponsible use of money. This may be explained by the fact that the Right has issued a guarantee that no more money will be used in a government in which the Right is included. Instead of spending less money, we're going to believe this year's budget. Should Sandberg become Minister of Transport in such a government, he will probably also be happy to have party traps like Peter N. Myhre in Oslo, who are more concerned with producing results than with riding the previously mentioned pitfalls.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e836	I think the representative Olemic Thommess took an incredibly narrow entrance when he spoke about the E6 expansion. He said, in part a little bit lightly, that we just have to enforce and get the road in place, cost what it will cost, without seeing what community it touches, and without seeing what gem Mjösa is, lying between Eidsvoll north and Stange south. I will not believe that the representatives from the Right from Akershus share the simple and light-spirited mention of Thommess: just to build down the beach zone along Mjösa. One has to see what opportunities there are to raise growth from Rome to Eidsvoll north and Stange south. We have huge press problems in Rome. Can't we free up areas, nice areas, new nice plots to build along Mjösa, in Stang South and Eidsvoll North? There are many options for action here, if we dare to take some social action in the context of the E6 development. We don't just have to think that the road is going to come forward, cost what it's going to cost, not take any other societal reasons, not think about the environment, not think about how we can move growth from the Gardermoen and northwards. That's an opportunity that we should take and that we should use. I hope that Olemic Thommes sees that there are slightly more perspectives than the one-sided, simple presentation. Then to rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox There's no doubt about that. 3 is a highway for Hedmark, and that we, being Hedmark representatives, must lift that road. One thing is that it means a lot to Hedmark, but it also means a lot to the country. It binds the country together, especially in the case of heavy traffic. That is why I am pleased – although I want much more money for Rv. 3 than what came into the budget this year, because there was little money -- that it's now starting to become money for the broad expansion project, because it's a good project where we get a lot of good way to get too little money. That's why we have to agree to raise it in the future, not as we've done before, talk about 2-4-6-16 until we turn blue and green, without raising important transport investments in our own state. That's why the new red-green regime in Hedmark is good, for they dare to lift up rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e843	The representative Per Sandberg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e846	I understood it so that the Council of State felt a little awkward when I quoted the Council of State and thus showed that she fully agreed with Carl I. Hagen about using oil money. I'll try again. In today's Business on November 23, the Council of State, Navarsete, says: ‘It must be permissible to consider that a greater proportion of the oil revenues should be used for road construction without being labeled irresponsible.’ There is the Council of States fully in line with us – and there is movement in the matter. I think that's great. I must be allowed to boast of the Council of State in that area. I hope she gets the rest of the government. To the representative Wickholm: There is much more that characterises the environmental policy of the Progress Party. As the only realistic and serious environmental party on Stortinget, we have promoted 34 measures in Stortinget, while the Wickholm Party, the Workers' Party, has not promoted a single measure in the environmental and climate debate. What Wickholm and others have done, on the other hand, is that they have been talking about emissions and the environment for 30 years – but they have done something, they have not done anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e858	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e862	It could only be an obvious misunderstanding that was to be solved. It was the representative of Solvik-Olsen who made it necessary to speak. He said that the Right had gone in to go far beyond the rule of action with its railway investments. He doesn't have any evidence for that. What we have said, however, is that we also have a lot of space within the rule of action of the years to come, when we see what kind of returns the State pension fund – abroad is going to give us in the future. It is then important to recall the assumptions expressed by representatives representing a majority in this Chamber, namely that one third of these provisions should go to infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e869	Only a small copy of the representative Battle Violence Vedum of the Central Party, which is the party that has the Council of State, which is part of a government made up of parties that have a majority in this Chamber, and which actually determines both the use of money and how to do things. Yes, I fully agree that the widths of the Mjøsen are very beautiful, and I agree that they are too much built down. I agree that they represent amazing natural pearls, beautiful and beautiful possibilities both for bicycle paths and other, but I am amazed at the lack of trust and ability of the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum to get an impact on the kind of decisions he is signalling. Why, then, does the representative not do anything to actually find such a solution – or does he not therefore trust that the Council of State and his own government are doing this? Because it's clear that we all wanted to do it this way. But it's the Central Party, the Council of State and this government that actually does not signal any prospect of implementing the concept that the representative of Battle Violence Vedum is talking about. It falls beautifully into the fold of all kinds of good promises with which the various representatives of the Centre Party are swinging, also in my home country. You talk about things as if you're completely freed from what your own government actually does, and actually stands for. In this situation we are there that a capital year — perhaps the most important capital year through the country, and its expansion has an impact on thousands of thousands of people — is stopped because of a local discussion at Memory Sun. The government has not been able to solve this satisfactorily. So you should cut through and find some solution. It has not been given that it is a state regulation. But I'm signaling that if you were to figure out that it was necessary, we would have a great deal of understanding about it, because you have to do some complete grip, also raised over that kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e878	My post also goes to the Center Party and Hedmark's representative there. It may appear that the representative has not read the comments on page 41. There is a joint remark on, among other things, the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox If you had read a little bit more, you would have seen that the Progress Party has $98 million. kr in addition to the Government. So what the Center Party and the Government and their representatives from Hedmark boast about is quite unknown to me. I can only remind you that during the 2005 revision, we raised 40 million. kr to rv. 3 to the width extension. What the government has so far got, it may well be a big question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e885	The representative Halleraker challenged me on where I had found that the Right would grant money in addition to the rule of action. Then I refer to Stavanger Aftenblad 15 November 2007, where Øyvind Halleraker and Bent Höie are asked about how great it is in an interview on lynching. The journalist then gets the answer – I think it is from Bent Höie’s representative – that this must take away from the usual framework, because this is an extraordinary promise. I can't understand that it means anything other than that one should not deal with the rule of action. That means you can set up a fund, that is, fund finance. But if you're going to fund $300 billion, you're going to need a fund of $12,000 billion – if you're going to have a return of $4. So it is possible that fund financing here would not be seen as a breach of the rule of action. But at least it is a clear signal from the Right-wing representatives that one should take it outside the usual framework. I have so far not registered any post in Stavanger Evening magazine where they distanced themselves from this quote. I think that would come pretty quickly if they thought they were mistaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e890	I think it's quite obvious that there is a need for state regulation between them. E6 is, as the representative Thommess said, a lifeblood for the country, and you can't wait for local government to delay that kind of project. We've been doing that for 20 years. 2, and the danger is great because it can be exposed even more. So a little bit about rv. 3 – because we had a central party representative from Hedmark who flew around and promised 100 million. kr per year. The deficit in that account is 284 million. kr per. today's date, so it'll be a bit of a job to fill it up to next year. At the same time, hopes have been created that this money will be used far upwards in the Østerdalen. Where there's real pressure on Rv. 3 is from E6 to Elverum. There it really is undercapacity. It has to happen a disaster before we get that distance out. So it's going to be a long time before you can prioritize what's north of that area, unfortunately. Then we have to get up the appropriations for the country as a whole, and we agree on that. The Hamar-Elverum route is also a life's nerve in Hedmark. It has a sub-capacity, as it is today, and you have to focus on that. That's exactly why it's so dangerous to doubt lottorekka. For E6 is actually the start of rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox When you come from Oslo, Rv starts. 3 with E6, and then you have to focus on that line until you've done this. Then we're going to start focusing on other life's nerves that also go through Hedmark. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e899	The representative of the Battle Force Vedum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e902	I have a note on the comments of the representative Thommessen, because he made the claim that because of local considerations in Stange South and Eidsvoll North, the E6 expansion stops. That's wrong. Thanks to a powerful government council that shared the project, the E6 development begins even if you try to take local considerations into account in Stange South and Eidsvoll North. We decided in Stortinget earlier this fall to start building from Colomoen and Gardermoen, and we leave there opportunities to find good solutions locally. It's because there's a government council that sees that we need to take a local debate and find good local solutions. But we have to get the road projects going, and they get us going now, and that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e907	The Council of State stood on this pulpit and said that the centre party is occupied by infrastructure and has been so long before the Progress Party was formed. Yes, then the character is ironed. I'm sorry, councillor, but when we see church buildings decay, school buildings decay, public institutions decay, road maintenance progress and poor road standards, it's over. The Progress Party is concerned with infrastructure, just like the State Council claims the Center Party is, but we actually have an alternative form of funding. The most important thing about the Progress Party, however, is that we do not believe that the economy can be controlled in detail. We don't think it's possible to find a spell form in the Ministry of Finance's office that says exactly this billions of dollars is what the economy tolerates, otherwise it's going to be inflation, higher interest rates, the crown price goes up and Norwegian jobs disappear to the rest of the world. We don't believe in it, and we've proven it over and over again. Not even the inflation target of 2.5 pst. Norway is able to get up to date. Norway's Bank is raising interest rates anyway, but it is unable to keep its interest rate path, as it has always said it should do, because the exchange rate is getting too strong. It's not gonna make it. Even if it wants to raise interest rates, it won't make it, because inflation is too low. And it actually makes sense to build the country. It makes sense to leave to the next generation and generation after that a world-class infrastructure. Then there is no use in the puzzled state budget that this government is able to cough up. Other nations envy our opportunities, but in this room we are not collectively able to take care of our wealth and invest in the future of the next generation. It's sad. It's actually unreasonable to save yourself to find. In 2006, loans from banks to private loans amounted to DKK 100 billion more than Norway’s Bank estimated at the start of 2006. Then the Norwegian economy was able to absorb NOK 100 billion more – without inflation. There was no further inflation of NOK 100 billion borrowed from Norwegian banks – NOK 100 billion more than the Bank of Norway had estimated. They had estimated NOK 200 billion. It was NOK 300 billion in 2006. How can we sit in this room and control the detail for $1 billion, $200 million? SEK or 50 million. Do you really want to delete this item? It's pointless. I'm sorry to have to say that. And I want to encourage people in this room to get involved in things and get their own opinions and positions instead of believing blindly in the office and the puzzled way you try to build the country, which is just building the country down.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e920	Now we have been holding on for almost three hours, and different representatives usually prefer different road projects here and there. That's interesting, that's what makes the voters hear that the representatives work for their district. But there is a certain danger that a person will make a mistake, or take a nap, in relation to climate policy as a whole. Whether it is the case for this assembly that the most important thing – and it is said by all parties – is climate policy, that we should have greenhouse gas emissions, then not everyone can go up here and tell us what a road project they are going to have, and facilitate more car traffic. Then you have to explain how to achieve a climate policy that is to be dropped, all of which, with the exception of the Progress Party, are some of them. It's not possible to fix the emission. This is achieved by facilitating the movement of freight from road to road and passenger traffic from road to road. That perspective is clearly forgotten, because now it's very important to have something to say about that particular road in the exact state from which one comes. It seems to me that I'm a little irresponsible when it's actually a climate policy one should choose to do something about. Then there must be a crossroads of thought for all those who are going to build a road in their state, that the prices of the access routes to Hardangerbrua have actually increased by 38 pst. Nevertheless, a mere ‘cool’ continues with the road in its state, without thinking about the climate and without thinking that the expenditure side is increasing considerably. I also found it interesting that the debate in Sweden is quite different. If you have a road investment of NOK 1, then you have a railway investment of NOK 2, because you have a contribution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In Sweden, then, a DKK 10 billion was spent on rail in 2007, while there were all those who are going to say hello here, we should have spent NOK 40 billion on a road in all the states of Norway – and some of them would have led to increased greenhouse gas emissions. I just repeat that all the parties, minus the Progress Party, say that climate policy is the most important thing. Then it's important to look a little bit further forward when it comes to this with the lightning train. If we are to reduce traffic accidents, if we are to reduce traffic noise, if we are to reduce air pollution, if we are to reduce the number of unforeseeable cars and vehicle trains on the roads, and if we are to do something to reduce greenhouse gases from transport, we must bet on trains, and not least on lightning trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e931	After a relatively hard attack on the Center Party, which is my party, I thought it was right to ask a question back: What has the Advance Party got? The centre party has seats in different governments. We have received many important projects for the country. I can quickly frame projects on the trade side for which the Centre Party has been the driver, and get through, because we have cooperated, because we have made reconciliation and compromise and learned that negotiating multiples in this Chamber is what gives results. Having a foreign budget does not help. Having a fund does not help. How many billions you can set up with when you don't get multiples in this room. The Lakmus test was in the previous magnification period when the Progress Party had three budgetary settlements, had all the world's potential. One would think that when they really got through, there was both OPS project, fund, foreign budget – you name it! We didn't see anything about that growth. This government managed to raise the budget as much in the first year, as we actually had only a few weeks on us, as one did in that budget deal. So in the Center Party, we're proud of what we've done through alternating plurals in this hall with different parties to promote what the Center Party has been busy about in different contexts. We are now in an excellent government, where we build the country differently through both infrastructure and many other important sectors. We agree that the whole country should have growth, and so we have a business today that really goes so susar, thank you for a government that invests in the whole country. There have been many different debates from this chair this evening. When I hear the polarization between road and rail, I just want to remember that expanding narrow, curved roads also has a documented environmental impact. Building roads doesn't get us past whether we're building high-speed roads. In Finnmark, in Troms, in Northern Ireland, in More and in Romesdal, in Trøndelags County and many other places in the country, it will not be possible to climb a high-speed train. Then we must have both – and. We cannot bet either - or. I want to warn you about the polarization you see, and rather think that there are different needs in different parts of the country. Yes, we need a lot of money on the railway, but we also need a lot of money on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e942	The representative of Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e946	It was the representative of Langeland's play on climate that made it interesting. He excludes, of course, that the Progress Party has something that tastes like climate policy. There is more evidence of an inability to follow what the Progress Party suggests on the Stortinget than of a good analytical ability, for it has been completely omitted. The Council of State answered to the extent why the Progress Party thinks roads are good. The council's response was very good. What is alarming, on the other hand, is that Langeland in the Transport Committee is intended to stop infrastructure development in the form of roads in the districts. That's what he said, that there were too many people who welcomed home with their whiskers, and that there was a bad climate policy. I remember what the councillor, Solheim, said when he briefed me about the trip to Bali. 60-70 pst. of the large emissions of CO2 in the world come from 5 000 to 8 000 large emissions of coal and industry. If one adds to that 20 pst. comes from the rain forest, this is what the big cuts you should start with, not with the individual cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e956	It was the council that made me take the floor. It's like hearing a lot before your ears fall off. She had a review of the fact that the Progress Party has not had any impact on any of its proposals over time, and that the Center Party has done so in a large monn. So it makes me react. In fact, no more than one week ago — one week — the Council of State was up and opened one of the main road sections in Norway, Lofast. And Lofast was actually started because of a demand from the Progress Party to take decisions on the start-up grant. It was in cooperation with the bourgeois parties in the previous period. There are several sections of the road we have been through, including: solutions on E6. So it's actually the fact that the Progress Party in the last period was involved and made sure that this government has money to spend on road construction, among other things. through the reorganization of Mesta AS, which has provided hundreds of millions of dollars so that we can build multiple roads. The same applies to other governmental organisations. When the Center Party takes the credit for many assignments, it's leading people behind the light. In fact, it's strange that you can't remember any longer than one week after opening a road project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e965	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e968	SV is of course for one to have good direction in the district, for one to have a good ferry service, and for one to do something with the race hazard. That's what I said in my main post. But I thought that the climate issue disappeared completely in the debate, and I can't understand it when all the parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, say that this is the most important thing. Transport is thus a major part of emissions – and they are increasing. That one then forgets the focus when the most important thing is climate, should worry more than SV. So I just want to say that most people are because we're going to do something about the climate. Most people are too hot. I think it'll be a little embarrassing for the party for 'people most' to be against what people most are for, so it's a question of time before the Progress Party is also with people most and us in SV – for lynchage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e975	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e978	The council says she's proud of what the Central Party has achieved because they've been in government. Yes, it is true that the Center Party has been in government, and that they have turned back and forth. But what are they really so proud of – is it not more important? If the most important thing is to sit in government, the Central Party has reached its goal. It is that church buildings are decaying, school buildings are decaying, research centers are decaying, road-trafficking is enormous, and road standards are miserable. At the same time, we are – regret the cliché – the richest country in the world, yet we are not. When are we gonna do this? You can't possibly have been in government this year after year and be so proud of the results you haven't achieved! Then, rather, the Party of Advancement sits on the sideline, because when the Party of Advancement comes into government, it will simply, literally, get away from the well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e985	I hope the representative of Langeland is pleased that it was the Progress Party that was going to make this a climate debate. High-speed rail is not a good climate action. It has repeated reports shown. High-speed rail is one of the most expensive climate measures that this country has ever been presented to. So it's kind of funny that Hallgeir H. Langeland, which represents a party that has a riot at a place between 4 pst. and 8 pst. by the voters in the country, talking to the Progress Party about people most. Once again, I refer you to the SINTEF report this summer, which shows that one of the cheapest and best climate action we can take is the development of the regional road network in Norway, so that transport becomes more efficient. It would be an action that would, to a much greater extent, also lift district policy. So I've thought a little bit about this with the high-speed track. It is true that State Secretary Heidi Sørensen has said that in order to save some wild rain in the mountains, we are going to put the high-speed rail around Rondane and Dovre. Then I'm a little in doubt if the State Secretary has ever taken that mountain area into consideration. The alternative is to put a tunnel through the mountains. Passing the tunnel through Dovre is most likely to become one of the largest transport projects Europe has ever seen. Hallgeir H. Langeland calls this a good environmental project. I totally disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e998	One of the more curious posts in today's debate, in order to use such a term, I think I have to say one of Tybring-Gjedde's posts belongs to. For he had an outrage that the depositors should not rely blindly on the office in the departments. I listened with interest to that statement. As far as I know, Tybring-Gjedde has the job in the Ministry of Defence, so he really has to know what he is talking about – an interesting article! To the representative of Kenneth Svendsen, I would like to say a little bit about the history of the decision in Stortinget on the continuation of Lofoten's mainland link, Lofast. Firstly, it was not adopted in the previous period. There have been two periods since the adoption of the mainland Lofoten link. It was during the Bondevik I government, and it was then the State Council Dørum who proposed it. But he did not propose the solution for which the Storting went in. He suggested that a tunnel be built for the West. So Lofoten's continental connection was decided by the votes of the Labour Party in Stortinget, and also by a part of the Advance Party, against what the Council of State had opposed to Stortinget. It is a little too much of the good thing to say that this is the work of the Progress Party, and that it is the Progress Party that should have the sole credit for the decision taken by the Stortinget two periods ago to extend Lofoten's continental link.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1005	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1008	Lofast has been planned – if I do not remember faults – since 1937. It has been reviewed at different levels several times. Then it was adopted in this hall, the Storting, that so much else. But the problem was that the money didn't come. The money didn't come, and that's what I referred to. In the budgetary comparisons with the civil parties in the previous period, the Progress Party demanded that there be money on the table so that we could start the construction. The Labour Party has had power several times in the last 50 years, but they have not managed to cough up the money. We did it!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1019	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1101]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1035	On 18 September 2007, oil spills from the wreck «Northward» occurred in Moss. It is good that you have stopped the main leak. The assessment from the Coastal Works is that the wreck is in such a condition that leakages are likely to increase in a very short time. Therefore, it is important to get started as soon as possible and to empty ‘Northward’ for oil. The Committee takes a serious view of the situation and agrees to authorise the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast to place an order of up to 27 million. NOK in order to be able to conclude a contract for unloading. In addition, 5.5 million are moved. kr from the ‘Server’ loss for the discharge of ‘Nordvard’, i.e. a total of 32.5 million. kr. At the same time, it is important to stress that the main principle of the pollution law is that the polluter should pay. I would also like to give tribute to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast for rapid intervention in order to stop the leakage and now to clear the «Northward» for oil, for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1046	The party of progress is pleased that it is proposed to remove the oil contained in the wreck «Northward» in Moss and that it will now be emptied of oil. We therefore support the Government's proposals for amendments. Nevertheless, we would point out that it is only budgeted at 3.9 million. kr for acute contamination, at the same time as the Ministry is authorised to use up to 15 million. additional to measures to prevent acute contamination. We believe that this is an excessive amount, and want this framework to be significantly increased beyond this amount. I would also like to point out that the Council of State has refused to carry out a review of the action after the ‘Server’ was lost, and that instead an external evaluation will be launched. This is good, and we therefore believe it is important that the Storting should be properly informed about the external evaluation. I would therefore like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter. The proposition also refers to information on the undercoverage of the fee revenue to finance the traffic centres. These have now accumulated a deficit of 5.5 million. having regard to the fact that traffic trends have been worse than envisaged. It therefore seems very easy for the government to send only these kinds of bills for increased costs to the users. We're worried that it seems like it's all the time just sending new bills to users, just as you've done to secure ports in the form of ISPS fees, to get approval. This contributes to the distortion of the framework conditions for ports and for the various modes of transport and, if progress is made, there is no doubt that this would run counter to the agreed national objectives of shifting more of freight traffic to maritime transport. This cannot be characterised as anything but an environmentally hostile policy, and there are doubts about the Government's will and ability to move goods from road to sea. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1059	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1109]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1075	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1082	In Document No: 8:1 for 2007-2008, when proposers point out that waterways should be a natural part of the national transport plan in order to ensure their stable and long-term management. In the case of waterways, this involves the Telemark Channel and the Halden Canal. The Telemark Canal is currently owned by Telemark County, Haldenkanalen is owned by Østfold County Municipality and the municipalities of Aurskog-Høland, Marker, Aremark and Halden. The common feature of these two waterways is that there is considerable wear and tear on maintenance. Both in the case of the Telemark Channel and the Halden Canal, opportunities for external financing are sought. In addition, there are serious problems in finding out where any responsibility should lie on the state side. The Ministry of State letter to the Committee stresses that measures relating to the investment, maintenance and operation of ductile facilities and the operation of traffic on them fall outside the budget of the Ministry of Transport. The Council of State therefore sees no need to introduce waterways into the national transport plan. As regards the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, they follow the recommendation of the Council of State. In the vote, the majority of the above-mentioned reply letter refers and proposes that the draft representative be annexed to the Minutes. The right has brought the Christian People's Party and the left, and they have joined forces to ask for the representative's proposal to be followed up. The members of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left are asking for a management plan for waterways to be drawn up in such a way that it can be included as an integral part of the national transport plan, and are therefore promoting proposals asking the Government to draw up a long-term management plan for the waterways which are included as an integral part of the national transport plan. With regard to the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, they agree with the proposers that the Telemark Channel and the Halden Canal have been treated in a vote, but they do not believe that this would necessarily lead to the addition of more resources to the watercourses even if the waterways were transferred to the national transport plan. This is why the Progress Party is promoting a proposal to clarify which department will be responsible for security and preparedness in the case of Haldenvasstrakte and Telemarkskanalen. The Christian People's Party is on a proposal with the Right and Left, and I take that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1101	The representative Jan Sahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1104	I think there is a broad consensus in the UK that the Halden Canal and the Telemark Canal are important national cultural memories, while being important tourist destinations. The main challenge lies in preserving cultural memories, while developing channels as attractive tourist destinations. I also believe that there is a good understanding in the Storting that both channels have economic challenges that need to be solved in the future. We are well aware that the governments of both channels have expressed concern about the financial situation. The fact now is that companies have major financial difficulties in implementing obligations under existing legislation relating to watercourse regulation and flood protection. In the first phase, maybe the Halden channel is the worst. With regard to the current organisation of channels, these are autonomous units. In my opinion, it is then wrong for national administrations to draw up management plans and submit them to the national transport plan. It cannot be an appropriate solution or management. Channels have management plans, development plans and contingency plans. So there are no plans that are missing. The main challenge is that the channels do not generate large enough revenues to meet the investment needs and maintenance requirements resulting from the Water Resource Act as well as the dam safety regulations. When responsibility in the 1990s was transferred to the regional municipal level, I think this was initially good. Nevertheless, the challenge was that the financial basis for the administration itself was weak despite both fund schemes and later individual support measures. In addition, natural income has also fallen in recent years. I think it's important now that we closely follow the evolution of the channels. I think it is right to establish a good dialogue with the governments on the challenges ahead. At my discretion, it is quite natural that the Ministry of Oil and Energy at the NVE is responsible for any such dialogue. I am well aware that, on the part of the authorities, there has been a restrictive approach to the issue, given that responsibility has been transferred from the state to the regional level. I think it's essential that you actually go into this problem. No one's earned that we have two channels that are gradually depleted with them following such deprivation will get for two so important national cultural memories. So I would like to encourage the Government of the Ministry of Oil and Energy to review the situation of the canals. The aim must be to strengthen the potential to preserve these important cultural memories of national importance while at the same time safeguarding dam and flood protection. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the majority of the Committee does not go in to include these waterways in the national transport plan, as the Minister for Transport said in his letter. From the Labour Party we have, as I have said, expressed our desire to have a review of the situation, and then to make a broader assessment of what will be right for the channels in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1130	Proposalers point out that it is important that the Halden Waterways and the Telemark Canal become a natural part of the national transport plan in order to ensure stable and long-term management. The Progress Party agrees that these are important as cultural and travel life approaches, but will nevertheless point out that they have very little meaning as transport years. We also believe that if the Halden watercourse and the Telemark Canal enter the national transport plan, they will have to compete with a number of road and rail projects that are far more important in transport, and inclusion is likely to only contribute to the symbolic mention of waterways in national transport plans. Waterways will always lose in the fight against road and rail projects of major societal importance. We therefore believe that this is throwing blues in people's eyes. To say that there will be money just these channels get into the national transport plan is to trick people, and we won't. We believe, however, that the Halden Waterscourse and the Telemark Channel have been treated with a very poor voice. So we want to take seriously the situation of the two watercourses financially. We believe that it is important, both in relation to the safety and preparedness challenges facing us, to clarify which department should be responsible. The Party considers that it is important to ensure that the watercourse and the canal provide an economic opportunity to implement mandatory requirements under the applicable legislation and in relation to regulation and flood protection. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1137	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1140	The waterways have not had the attention they deserve in our consciousness as transport politicians. That seems to be an agreement. Waterways are treated in a vote despite the fact that, as transport years, they are tourist attractions that provide a basis for industrial activity. So far, it looks like we're in agreement. Therefore, the Right considers that waterways belong in the national transport plan and proposes this. Compared to other carriers, they will in any case represent marginal economic consequences. Both the Telemark Channel and the Halden Canal are on the brink of economic ruin. There is a lot of useful traffic both on the Telemark Canal and in the Halden Watercourse. The two waterways should therefore be a natural part of the national transport plan in order to ensure stable and long-term management. It is important for the activities that are taking place to have predictability in managing the channels. Moreover, if the State shows an interest in the channels, it is likely that a large unused potential can be realised. Both the Halden Canal and the Telemark Canal can be preserved as transport years and further developed as cultural and travel life attractions. To the right, funds for a split layer between the State, regional and local authorities and businesses are given priority. We've put in $10 million. kr to these two channels in our 2008 budget. I want to say a few words about the Telemark channel. Another representative from the Right will look at the Halden Canal in his post. When the Telemark Channel opened in 1892, it was referred to in Europe as the eighth wonder. Telemark County took over the ownership of the Channel from the Oil and Energy Ministry in 1990. At the same time, an operating agreement was concluded with the State Road Administration which has now ceased. Today, the operation of the canal is organised in the county's own operational department. During the summer season, 35 people are committed to keeping the channel in operation, which deals with a budget of 8 million. kr. There are as many as 40,000 travellers using the channel during a summer season. Nevertheless, the Telemark Channel has a large lag – 60 million. kr – in the case of maintenance of locks, buildings, bridges, dams, etc. Historically, unlike the Telemark Channel, the State has had only minor interests in the Halden Canal. Nevertheless, it is natural for the State, in order to have a common overall governance, to contribute to it as well. Let's take a quick round in Europe to see how this is managed in other countries: in Sweden, the Swedish Maritime Administration has the state responsibility. In recent years, they have granted 70 million. kr as a government grant. In France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom, all Directorates or departments which are transport-related are responsible. In Norway, therefore, the channels are per year. today under the Riksantikvaren. There are different systems in these countries, but common to them is that the state also takes responsibility for the financial. In Norway, in other words, we are quite atypical in our approach. We treat the channels as museum affairs, not as an exciting tool in business development. It wants the right to change. We believe it is high time that we saw the freshwater channels as a natural part of our transport network, and therefore they belong in the national transport plan. We also have canals and locks in the sea, i.e. in salt water, in this country – I actually have a channel in my own municipality. They are under the responsibility of the Coastal Agency and are part of the national transport plan. We would like to discuss whether the freshwater canals should be located in the Coastal Agency, in the Ministry of Transport or elsewhere, but putting active transport veins under the Riksantikvar must be grounded.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1161	It is not so difficult to understand the background that Right takes up the proposal they have made. After all, it was an agreement that went all the way to the Bondevik II government that he cancelled in 2003. I understand that one sees that maybe it wasn't that smart. But that's the position now, the owners have a financial responsibility for the channels that this applies. This is true of the Telemark County Municipality and the Eastfold County Municipality together with four municipalities in Eastfold. Looking at the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, the budget we discussed earlier this evening is about road, road, air, postal and telecommunications, i.e. about communication for general use. It is quite right to say that the channels, although they have many visitors, are not a part of the useful transport, but important destinations and thus primarily a tourist and cultural memory. Therefore, it is not so natural that a pointer to the Ministry of Environment of the Riksantikvaren and the Ministry of Oil and Energy of the NVE as the appropriate addressees to search for means to keep these channels in check. It is important to take care of cultural memories, but this falls outside the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Enterprise policy, i.e. tourism, is the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and it is not natural to include it in the national transport plan. I agree with the majority of the committee that the channels are important as cultural and travel life attractions and hence must be preserved. As is also pointed out,constraint conditions are important for the preservation and development of cultural and tourist heritage. I agree with the majority that security needs to be ensured. It is clear that the county councils can take this matter further to the departments concerned and obtain a process on a possible decision in relation to that work. But as I've already pointed out, this is not a natural task for the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1172	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1175	I think the representative Halleraker explained in a very good and illustrative way why it was both logical and right that this should come under the national transport plan. He had some interesting perspectives in relation to how other countries do it, which I had hoped the majority would listen to. In any case, the importance of investment in infrastructure from different political parties, businesses and others is reflected, in order to facilitate the creation of value added and new jobs. I think the Council of State's argument is a bit funny when she attaches such great importance to commercial traffic. Then I start wondering whether the Council of State is aware or has taken on board that there is actually significant traffic on both of these watercourses. On the Halden Canal, e.g. there is a significant traffic related to the M/S ‘Turisten’, which operates the watercourse with thousands of tourists throughout the season. I cannot see that it is of any less benefit that the M/S «Turisten» carries tourists on the Halden Canal than that a tourist bus carries tourists on the E6. Then I think you have a very narrow definition of the term. In this case, I think we have a lot to learn from Sweden, from how they have done it there. They have developed their waterways in an absolutely amazing way. A few weeks ago, there was a very interesting paper article in Today's Business that showed the enormous social incomes generated by the project in Sweden. Tourists drive the Göta Canal up to Vänern and further up the Mälaren watercourse to Stockholm, and the Stora Le watercourse. This has generated thousands of jobs and contributes to Swedish gross domestic product with hundreds of millions of dollars. I think the council should take a closer look at it, because then we're really talking about utility. When we promoted this proposal some time ago, we were met with many good words and enthusiasm from different teams, not least from several representatives of the Workers' Party on the eastern fold bench. You thought this was a sensible proposal. That's why I think it's a pity and a shame that neither Irene Johansen nor Signe Eye are participating in this debate, but I might understand that from the sad conclusion that the majority of people here are making. We received support for this to be included in the national transport plan, and they would also support the Right's proposal that money be allocated to this. For the situation, as pointed out by several, is completely critical. It is on the brink of collapse, and it would be a national disaster if it were to happen that we are not able to keep up and take care of these unique waterways, which are also unique in a European perspective. The Halden Canal has e.g. Largest lock-down facility in northern Europe. I hope that the last word is not said in this case. From the right-hand side, at least we're going to pursue this further. We're not going to give in this round. We're going to recapitulate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1191	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 5 is over. [[See page 111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1207	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines by up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time, followed by a three-minute speaking time for those who had to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to this. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1214	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 for 2007-2008 by the Landfill Representatives Erna Solberg, Trond Helleland and Øyvind Halleraker contain proposals to introduce the minimum threshold for reasphalting. There are already standards for the operation and maintenance of the road network. This standard also covers the road surface and it can therefore be established that there is already a limit on the condition of the road surface before it is to be re-asphalted. If the annual budgets do not allow full compliance with the requirements of the maintenance standard, this will mean an increase in road surface-related delays. Then we must give priority. It knows all the parties that have been in different governments. Within the budgetary framework for operations and maintenance, a number of priorities must be set. The most important priority criterion is road safety. This means that operational tasks that improve road safety are of the highest priority. Through both the 2007 and 2008 state budget, the Stoltenberg II government has given particular attention to coverage on the national road network. The 2007 budget saw an increase in road maintenance of 500 million. kr, or 25 pst., in relation to the 2006 balanced budget. And as you know, it was Bondevik II who provided the 2006 budget. In 2007, it is foreseen that approximately 800 million. kr shall be used for asphaltification, which is an increase of 200 million. kr. Then, of course, it is that more money for cover maintenance is desirable, but then it should come as a result of an increase in the overall level of funding and not at the expense of other tasks, which would result if absolute requirements were imposed on the road surface standard. The State Road Service is now undertaking a comprehensive review and revision of the maintenance standard. This work is based on, for example: on the TØI research report relating to the state of cover and the risk of accidents. According to the plan, a new maintenance standard shall be completed in early 2009. On behalf of the majority parties, the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party, I recommend that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1233	I feel that much of the debate that could have taken place during asphalting was taken during the budget debate. But it is clear that the proposers point to a major problem and a major challenge. It was made clear during the budget debate. It turns out that even in 2007 and 2008, we get several kilometers of ‘sick’ roads, if I get to say it that way. There's a lot of reasons for that. One of the reasons is that we haven't been good enough to predict traffic development. I have to say that I am a little provoked when one concludes that the traffic is out of control. That's not what's real. What's a fact is that it's the construction of the infrastructure that's out of control over the growth of traffic we're experiencing. It makes sense that when the country goes well, we also get a traffic growth, of course. And then we've bombed fundamentally on the prognosis. It is clear that when we do nothing about the efforts on our roads and with the maintenance, the wear will have a double effect. That's what we see the result of now. Nor should we ignore the fact that there may be a reason why we are now unfortunately again recording the increased number of accidents on our roads. The fact that the maintenance on our roads has become of such a nature while the traffic growth has become much higher than we thought, obviously means that the safety on our roads is much worse today than it was last year, and will probably be even worse next year. It is almost like I'm hesitating to say that, but we also point out in our remarks in the attitude to the comprehensive and good proposals that we made in our 2008 alternative budget. That proposal, of course, takes care of everything that goes on maintenance and aftermath, both in the case of asphaltification and the lack of asphaltification, and in the case of reasphalting. It also takes into account that many of our regions have county roads that consist only of gravel roads, which might have had a cover at some point. I feel that when a proposal is made for a national plan for the minimum level of reasphalting, it becomes almost like yelling in the woods. The rapporteurs have had occasion to adopt such a proposal in a number of contexts, but have failed to provide it. That is why the Progress Party has also promoted its own proposal, proposal No. 2, which I'm going to take up now, which is that we're going to have a plan for how we're going to take back the whole backtrack on our roads, including county roads and municipal roads. Because we may largely be discussing tribal roads and highways. But then we all know in the Transport Committee and in the Stortinget that the "sickest" roads we have are municipal and county roads. At that time, I might have thought that the increased transfers to the local government sector that the current government has boasted of would lead to slightly higher appropriations for municipal and county roads, but so far it looks very sad. It seems that the transfers that the Government has been behind the local government sector have already been absorbed by compensation of employees and pension costs. Therefore, the situation of the county roads and our municipal roads will continue to be dramatic. They will have a reduced standard, which in turn will lead to an increase in the number of accidents, more deaths, inefficient business, etc. What should have been mutually agreed is the proposal by the Progress Party in its alternative budget, which was voted down, that a plan had been put in place now, with the aim of re-establishing the overall slowdown in maintenance on all roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1252	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1255	Now we have had a six-seven-hour debate on the need for more asphalt and reasphalting, so I am not going to spend a long time now justifying our proposal. I just want to say that when the Right now wants to promote a proposal to have a minimum limit for reasphalting, it is because we recognize that what Hellbillies wrote in his song, «Six thousand holes», «wheel tracks», etc., is also a major problem in terms of road safety. Among other things, the TØI report on the condition of the road surface and road safety show that there is a strong link. Then, of course, you need appropriations to get it done. But I think maybe now we're going to tie ourselves a little bit tighter to the mast and say that there has to be a minimum limit in how far down a road surface can wear without anything happening. There aren't so many other areas where an old man with the security in the way that he does on our roads, saying that when there's not enough money, we'll have to wait until next year. It's irresponsible. I would like to address the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left to ask the Government to investigate and submit to the Stortinget proposals for a minimum threshold for reasphalting during the spring of 2008. I think it is necessary, and then of course we must all also strive to fill up with the necessary appropriations. We've pointed out that one way to do this is to have a maintenance fund, which we've set aside for $20 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1262	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1265	I do not doubt the good intentions of the proposal by the Right-wing representatives that we are now discussing. There is no lack of standards that means that we have a broken path in this country – there is a lack of permissions. It has been a lack of permissions to maintain for many years, through alternating governments, and it's a aftermath built up over many years. We're now trying to lift the maintenance frame so that we can start retrieving it again. There are standards today, and it is not the State Road Service that should be responsible for not always being fully followed. It's about what kind of vows the State Road Service has all the time, and of course it's about priority. Under this government, we have increased the maintenance funds by about half a billion dollars, or by about half a billion dollars. 25 pst. in relation to the level at which we came into government. The increase has mainly been attributed to asphaltification and to measures related to the road body, which makes reasphalting a value. Because we have seen that where a new asphalt is added directly without strengthening the road body, the effect of the new asphalt will disappear after a very short time. So it's often more than just a new layer of cover, it's also about taking several parts of the road body into such a maintenance work. Therefore, it is important that a future maintenance priority also be given. It's probably more important than betting on even more -- bigger projects. I believe that in the context of the next national transport plan there will be one of the questions we will be discussing in this room, the priority between operation, maintenance and investment, within the given framework, for which a government council will of course work as high as possible. The state road authority is currently carrying out a comprehensive revision of the standard linked to the tyre state, where the exclusion risk is taken into account. This work will be completed in 2009. I would also like to mention that maintenance and road cover are not covered by the functional contracts for operation and maintenance, but are carried out in own contracts. There is a concrete measure of how to use functional contracts for road surfaces as well, and a successful implementation of this strategy will, of course, provide even more effective use of means for road surfaces. As I said, the intentions behind the proposal are the best. I don't see the need to get a minimum reasphalt limit, which in a way will be another standard. The standards we have, I think I'm more than good enough. What we have to do, both this government and future governments, which I hope will be made up of the same outstanding parties, is to continue the process of stepping up the path of road maintenance and, together with the means of investment, to look at longer distances for road repair, not just new paths. But I'm probably thinking new strategies for how we use the funds to get more out of the funds, and to get better maintenance in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1276	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1284	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e1292	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2-8, by Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 10 and 12, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 13, 14 and 17, by Mr Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 18, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 19 from Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 20, from Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right The President noted that the proposals No. 9, 11, 15 and 16 have not been recorded, as they must be considered as framework dependent and therefore cannot be taken into consideration. The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCronesCronesExpenditure600Ministry of Labour and Inclusion1Operating expenditure 205 164 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred3 000 000601Research activities, research etc.21Special operating expenditure 82 100 00050Norway Research Council 111 800 00070Funds 29 052 00072Funds to Centres for Senior Policy, etc. 10 200 00073Aids to health and rehabilitation services requested, can be transferred140 400 000604NAV reform and pension reform21Special operating costs, can be transferred, can be used under items 45877 500 00045Large equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, can be used under items 21737 700 000605Labour and well-being permit1Operating costs 7 850 700 00021Special operating costs 35 500 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred241 400 00070Additional health and rehabilitation services notified, can be transferred138 000 000606Emergency expenditure1Operating expenditure 56 400 000621Administrative expenditure managed by the Social and Health Directorate21Special operating expenditure 40 600 00062Quality programme, can be transferred230 00063Social services and measures for disadvantaged,can be transferred163 300 00070Free work, can be transferred22 701 00074Additions to pension organisations m. 8 900 000634Worker market measures21Tests, development measures, etc., can be transferred17 000 00076Actions for job seekers, can be transferred5 258 100 000635Worker pay1Operating expenditure, estimate appropriations260 000 000640Worker supervision1Operating expenditure 356 800 00045Better equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred4 000 000 000642Employer supervision1Operating expenditure 159 100 00021Special operating expenditure 15 000 00045Better equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred1 500 000643Member States' working environment institute50State grants 85 500 000646Pion divers in the North Sea1Operating expenditure, can be transferred300 00070Supplementary expenditure for pioneers, estimates56 300 00072Appropriations, can be transferred2 800 000649Labour rights, Riksmekling man etc. [[AFP]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e3729	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 20, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the necessary measures to extend the social security scheme to the year in which it is registered, so that after six months of sick leave, a new doctor is re-evaluated, thereby facilitating further rehabilitation, rehabilitation or health care.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e3744	Proposal No. 19, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, is taken up for parturition. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of the waiting wage scheme for new beneficiaries from 1 January 2009 and to replace it with a close follow-up and guarantee of action for each.’ The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e3762	Proposal No. 18, from the Right and Christian People's Party, is taken up for parturition. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size refers to recommendations from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare and asks the Government to launch a pilot scheme allowing psychologists to document disability as a new measure in the prevention of sick leave.’ [[Sickness message law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e3777	The proposals are then put to the vote. 13, 14 and 17 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e3807	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 12, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e3832	I voted incorrectly, I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e3839	Then it'll be even more rejected. [[Laughter]] The correct votes will then be 66 votes against the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right and 35 votes in favour. This does not mean that the proposals are inconceivable. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-8, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e7801	During the debate, 47 proposals have been put forward. It's Official Journal No. 1-14, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 15-19, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party The President would like to point out that proposal No. 17 declines, as the proposal breaks with the intention of the Storting framework budgeting. That's it. proposal No 20, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left motions for resolutions Nos. 21-23, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 24, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Left, No. 25–47, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 25–47, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e7992	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 24, from the Advancement Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit, in the context of the Revised National Budget, a plan with the corresponding financing for the necessary upgrading and renewal of the Coast Guard Equipment for Oil Preserving, and the Coast Guard’s own vessels.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e8007	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21-23, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e8037	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the front, right and left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to suspend and transform the works of production of the Railway Agency as soon as market conditions so permit, cf. further mention in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 2 and cf. [[2004-2005]] [[2004-2005]] Budget-in-one. S. No 13
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e8052	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 16, 18 and 19, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e8088	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-14, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e9923	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Left want to vote against the vote. The President also assumes that the Christian People's Party will now support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e9942	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide appropriate information on the outcome of the external evaluation of the ‘Server’ action and as soon as the evaluation report is available.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e10080	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left reads: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a long-term management plan for the waterways used as an integral part of the National Transport Plan.’ The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify which department and agency will have the overall and financial responsibility to ensure the preparedness and security of the Haldenvass Treaty and the Telemark Canal.’ This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Then there is an alternative vote between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e10120	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and submit to the Storting a proposal for a minimum threshold for reasphalting during the spring of 2008’.» The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit its own case as soon as possible for a national plan for the detection of the maintenance of highways, county roads and municipal roads.’ This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Alternatively, the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left and the vote of the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-2.ana.ud348e10173	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
